  Case Number:  19STCV46508    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        JOEL    ARTIGA,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs. WASTE    MANAGEMENT, ET AL.,                                 Defendants.   Case No.:  19STCV46508 DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed:  December 23, 2019 FAC    Filed:   May 26, 2020 Trial    Date:  January 13, 2025      Hearing  date:              March  13, 2024 Moving  Party:             Defendant  Waste Management of California, Inc.  Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  Joel Artiga Motion  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication  The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.             The  Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.   The Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 6th  cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.  The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED  as to all other remaining causes of action and issues, including punitive  damages.   Background             Plaintiff  worked for Defendants in the LA Dumpster Rental location for over 20  years.  Plaintiff was suspended in  January 2018 for failing to properly position a dumpster container at a  construction site, despite the fact that every single driver who worked for  Defendants positioned the dumpster container in the exact same way.  Plaintiff alleges supervisors also directed  and permitted drivers to position the dumpster in this way.  After his supervisor, Defendant Nicholas  Moreno, staged the container in the same position in violation of company  policy, he informed Plaintiff’s direct supervisor and unjustly placed blame on  Plaintiff.  As a result, Defendants  discriminated, harassed and retaliated against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was ultimately terminated.               Plaintiff  alleges he was discriminated against and terminated due to his age, which was  52 years at the time of the relevant events.   Plaintiff alleges Defendants stated multiple times that they wanted to  replace older employees like Plaintiff with younger, cheaper employees.               On  December 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Waste  Management, Waste Management of California Inc. (“WMCI”), USA Waste Management  of California (“USA Waste”), A Waste Management Company and Nicholas  Moreno.  On May 26, 2020, Plaintiff filed  the operative First Amended Complaint against these same Defendants alleging  (1) age discrimination; (2) harassment based on age; (3) failure to prevent  harassment and discrimination; (4) wrongful termination in violation of public  policy; (5) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (6) negligent hiring and  supervision; and (7) IIED.               On  March 17, 2022, Defendant Waste Management of California, Inc. (“WMCI”) filed  the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary  Adjudication.  On November 7, 2023,  Plaintiff filed an opposition to WMCI’s MSJ.   On November 16, 2023, WMCI filed a reply.    Legal  Standard             Summary  judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to  conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of  persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is  entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material  fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to  find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in  accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)             Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary  adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses,  the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A  motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes  of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of  duty.”  (Id.)             Where  a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either  “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,  cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of  action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure  §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy  this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the  lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)  31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the  defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a  “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action  or defense thereto.”  (Id.)               “A  party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of  showing there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to  file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has  carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's  evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion  does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the  opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific  Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s  failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana  growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party  failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky  Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant  summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine  if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)             In  addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed  strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.  (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All  doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue  of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor  of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.) Request  for Judicial Notice Plaintiff’s  Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 2-3, 13, 21, 22 and 35 is  GRANTED.  These are documents filed with  government agencies.  The fact that the  documents were filed on their respective dates with these agencies is  judicially noticed.  However, the truth  of the contents of those documents is not judicially noticed. Plaintiff’s  Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 4, 5, 14 and 16 is DENIED.  These documents do not fall within the  category of judicially noticeable documents under Evidence Code §§452 and 453.  However, Exhibits 4 and 5 are admissible  evidence as statements of admission. Evidentiary  Objections  WMCI’s Objection  Nos. 1-5, 7 to Gallagher Declaration are OVERRULED.  The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos.  6 and 8 pursuant to CCP §437c(q) as immaterial to the ruling. WMCI’s Objections  to the Gomez Declaration are OVERRULED.   WMCI’s  Objections to the Ramirez Declaration are OVERRULED. WMCI’s  Objections to the Artiga Declaration are OVERRULED.   Discussion             Parties’ Positions             WMCI’s MSJ filed on March 17, 2022             WMIC  makes arguments disputing its status as Plaintiff’s employer that are identical  to those asserted by WMI in its motion for summary judgment.  WMCI moves for summary judgment on grounds  that it never employed Plaintiff.  WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s causes of action are all premised on WMI’s status as  Plaintiff’s employer.  WMCI argues that  under the common law test to determine employment relationship, WMCI was never  Plaintiff’s employer, because it never exercised any control over Plaintiff’s  employment.  WMCI argues Plaintiff  admitted he never heard of WMCI and his only supervisor was Carmen Muno, who  was likewise never employed by WMCI, nor was Jose Bravo, the district manager,  or Nicholas Moreno.  WMCI argues  Plaintiff’s earnings statements and W-2 forms do not list WMI as the  employer.               WMCI  argues in the alternative that, even if there were a triable issue of fact as  to its employer status, Plaintiff’s substantive claims fail.  WMCI makes identical arguments regarding the  substantive merits of Plaintiff’s claims as WMI in its Motion for Summary  Judgment.              WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s claims are all preempted by Section 301 of the Labor  Management Relations Act (“LMRA”).  WMCI  argues resolution of Plaintiff’s claims requires the Court to interpret the  Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”) between Plaintiff’s union and  Plaintiff’s employer.  WMCI argues the  CBA governed the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment, including the  procedure and grounds for termination and discipline.  WMCI argues Plaintiff’s complaint challenges  the legitimacy of WMCI’s interpretation and application of the CBA to terminate  and discipline Plaintiff.  WMCI argues  the Supreme Court has held that Section 301 preempts state law claims under  these circumstances.               WMCI  argues Plaintiff also cannot satisfy his burden to establish that his  termination was based on his age.  WMCI  argues Plaintiff has provided no evidence that his age had anything to do with  his termination.  WMCI argues Plaintiff  admits that the basis for his termination was his violation of Life Critical  Rule No. 6.  WMCI argues if Plaintiff  claims this reason for his termination was pretextual, Plaintiff will be unable  to provide evidence corroborating his claim of pretext.  WMCI argues the only comment identified by  Plaintiff as being evidence of pretext did not make any reference to his age  and was a single, isolated comment.              WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s Labor Code §1102.5 claim fails, because Plaintiff never  engaged in any whistleblower conduct.  WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s complaints about the long hours were not disclosures of  potential violations of law but purely internal personnel matters.  WMCI argues Plaintiff also cannot establish  that any of his alleged complaints or statements were the basis for his  termination.  WMCI argues the evidence  establishes that Plaintiff was legitimately terminated for violating a rule  that was grounds for immediate termination.   WMCI argues Plaintiff also made his complaints about hours to Carmen  Munoz, who was not the decisionmaker who terminated Plaintiff.               WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by worker’s compensation  exclusivity.  WMCI argues Plaintiff’s  allegations also do not qualify as extreme or outrageous conduct. WMCI argues  Plaintiff’s allegations only establish that WMCI engaged in ordinary managerial  conduct.               WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s negligent hiring, supervision and retention claim fails as  an issue of law because it is barred by worker’s compensation exclusivity.  WMCI argues the negligence claim also fails,  because Plaintiff concedes that he never complained about Bravo or Moreno  during his employment.  WMCI argues it  never had notice of any unfitness of its alleged employees, an essential  element of the negligent hiring, et al. claim.             WMCI  argues Plaintiff’s claims for failure to prevent harassment and discrimination  and wrongful termination fail, because there was no underlying harassment,  discrimination or wrongful termination.  WMCI  argues Plaintiff will be unable to establish that his termination for failing  to properly position the roll-off box was pretextual.             Finally,  WMCI argues Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails.  WMCI argues Plaintiff has not alleged,  attested to or otherwise shown that WMCI engaged in fraud, oppression or  malice.  WMCI argues Plaintiff also  cannot demonstrate that an officer, director or managing agent of Defendant had  advance knowledge of the alleged wrongful acts or approved or ratified such  conduct.             Plaintiff’s  Opposition filed on November 7, 2023             Plaintiff  argues WMCI is a joint employer and/or alter ego of USA Waste Management of  California and Waste Management, Inc.  Plaintiff  argues WMIC shares officers and directors with these entities.                Plaintiff  argues WMI fails to establish that the FEHA claims are barred and preempted by  Section 301 of the Labor Management Relation Act.  Plaintiff argues the mere fact that the CBA  might provide a remedy or a duty related to a situation is insufficient to  establish preemption.  Plaintiff argues the  Ninth Circuit has established that antidiscrimination statutes are not  preempted by Section 301, because the right at issue is defined and enforced  under state law.  Plaintiff argues  determining whether Defendants' reasons for termination were pretextual does  not require interpretation of the CBA and only involves a factual  question.               Plaintiff  argues the reason given for his termination was pretextual.  Plaintiff argues the roll-out bin was placed  facing traffic for months by Plaintiff and other employees and that they did so  per the instruction and approval of supervisors and the client.  Plaintiff argues management knew this was the  reason why the roll-out bin was placed where it was, opposing traffic.  Plaintiff’s supervisor, Carmen Munoz, bullied  other employees to sign statements regarding the roll out bin and stated to him  that she wanted to get rid of personnel.   Plaintiff argues this is sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as  to whether Defendants’ reason for terminating him was a pretext for age  discrimination.               Plaintiff  argues Defendants fail to negate any element of his Labor Code §1102.5 claim.  Plaintiff argues he complained about the number of hours he was working and  there is no evidence that he did not believe that he was complaining about  something illegal.  Plaintiff argues  Defendants have not proven by clear and convincing evidence that Plaintiff  would have been terminated even if he had not made the complaint.               Plaintiff  argues the IIED claim survives because it is based on FEHA violations.  Plaintiff argues he has suffered from extreme emotional distress as a result of  Defendants’ wrongful termination and discrimination against him.               Plaintiff  argues he is entitled to punitive damages based on FEHA violations.  Plaintiff argues Defendants have not negated  his allegations of discrimination and therefore, grounds for punitive damages.             Plaintiff  argues his claims are not barred by workers’ compensation exclusivity.  Plaintiff argues Defendants have not demonstrated that the action alleged are  within the normal scope of work, given that they qualify as FEHA  violations.  Plaintiff argues he has  suffered emotional distress due to Defendants’ termination of him based on his  age.             WMCI’s  Reply filed on November 16, 2023              WMCI argues there is no dispute that it was  not Plaintiff’s employer based on the undisputed, admissible evidence.  WMCI argues Plaintiff was only ever employed  by USA Waste and there is no evidence that WMCI exercised control over  Plaintiff or permitted him to work.  WMCI  argues it was USA Waste alone that exercised control over Plaintiff’s hours,  wages, working conditions, terms of employment, including the decision to hire,  discipline and fire him.  WMCI argues USA  Waste’s name was also the only name on Plaintiff’s paychecks.               WMCI  argues the mere fact that it shared officers and directors with USA Waste, WMI reported  assets of both WMCI and USA Waste on its annual 10K report to the SEC, and WMI  reported labor costs and benefits as an expense in its 10K is not enough to  establish an employer-employee relationship with Plaintiff.  WMCI argues that a parent can only be deemed  an employer of a subsidiary’s employees if it exercised control over day-to-day  employment decisions of its subsidiary, i.e. more than the control normally  exercised by a parent over a subsidiary.   WMCI argues there is no evidence that it ever exercised such control or  that it in any occupied the role or duties of an employer.             WMCI  argues the undisputed facts and evidence also establish there is no genuine  dispute as to alter ego.  WMCI argues  there is a presumption against alter ego and the factors listed by Plaintiff  are insufficient to establish the doctrine as to WMCI and USA Waste.  WMCI argues Plaintiff also fails to identify  any basis to find that there will be an inequitable result if WMI’s separate  corporate existence is recognized.               WMCI  argues that even if there were a dispute as to its employer status, there is no  genuine dispute as to the basis for Plaintiff’s termination, which was his  violation of Life Critical Rule 6.  WMCI  argues Plaintiff does not deny that he violated Rule 6.  WMCI argues Plaintiff fails to present any  evidence from which a trier of fact could infer that this was a pretext for age  discrimination.  WMCI argues the violation  did not require progressive discipline under the CBA, nor does Plaintiff  present any evidence or argument that the persons who made the decision to  terminate him, Dory and Kato, had any discriminatory animus.               WMCI  argues the claims will also require the Court to interpret the CBA.  WMCI argues the claims are therefore  preempted by Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act.               WMCI  argues the IIED claim is also subject to workers’ compensation  exclusivity.  WMI argues the IIED claim  is based on conduct that occurred at the worksite in the normal course of the  employer-employee relationship, i.e. the decision to terminate Plaintiff.               WMCI  argues the punitive damages claim likewise fails.  WMCI argues the evidence establishes that it  took no actions that could justify punitive damages.  WMCI argues it did not even participate in  the decision to terminate Plaintiff, nor did it hire him or in any way  participate in any investigation or termination of his employment.               No  triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMCI was Plaintiff’s joint employer             Test  to determine “Employer”              Pursuant  to Government Code §12926, an “employer” for purposes of FEHA “includes any  person regularly employing five or more persons, or any person acting as an  agent of an employer, directly or indirectly…” (Gov. C. §12926.)  “[A] business-entity agent of an employer can  fall within the FEHA's definition of employer, and it may be directly liable  for FEHA violations, in appropriate situations. Although the question presented  in this case does not require that we go further and attempt to identify the  specific scenarios in which a business-entity agent will be subject to  liability under the FEHA, we recognize as a necessary minimum that, consistent  with the FEHA's language and purpose, a business-entity agent can bear direct  FEHA liability only when it carries out FEHA-regulated activities on behalf of  an employer.”  (Raines v. U.S.  Healthworks Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 288.)               “An  employee who seeks to hold a parent corporation liable for the acts or  omissions of its subsidiary on the theory that the two corporate entities  constitute a single employer has a heavy burden to meet under both California  and federal law. Corporate entities are presumed to have separate existences,  and the corporate form will be disregarded only when the ends of justice  require this result. In particular, there is a strong presumption that a parent  company is not the employer of its subsidiary's employees.”  (Laird v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (1998)  68 Cal.App.4th 727, 738.)               “Single  enterprise theory” or “joint enterprise theory” is a recognized theory of  derivative liability.  (Gopal v.  Kaiser Foundation Health Plan (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 425, 431-432.)  Under the “integrated enterprise test,” four  factors are examined: interrelation of operations, common management,  centralized control of labor relations and common ownership or financial  control.  (Id. at 737.)  “Under this test, common ownership or control  alone is never enough to establish parent liability.  Although courts consider the four factors  together, they often deem centralized control of labor relations the most  important. The critical question is, what entity made the final decisions  regarding employment matters related to the person claiming discrimination?  A parent's broad general policy statements  regarding employment matters are not enough to satisfy this prong.  To satisfy the control prong, a parent must  control the day-to-day employment decisions of the subsidiary.”  (Id. at 738.)               “To  make a sufficient showing of ‘interrelation of operations’ on summary judgment,  the plaintiff must do more than merely show that officers of the subsidiary  report to the parent corporation or that the parent benefits from the  subsidiary's work. Since these facts exist in every parent-subsidiary  situation, such a showing would create a triable issue of material fact in  every case. What the plaintiff must show, rather, is that the parent has  exercised control to a degree that exceeds the control normally exercised by a  parent corporation.”  (Id. at  738.)               WMCI  negates the allegation that it was Plaintiff’s employer             WMCI  submits evidence that  Plaintiff was only  employed by USA Waste of California, Inc.   (WMCI’s SSUMF No. 3; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec., ¶3.)  Plaintiff’s only supervisor he could recall,  Carmen Munoz, was only employed by USA Waste, not WMCI.  (WMCI SSUMF No. 8; Defendant’s COE, Burns  Dec., ¶4.)  Nicholas Moreno, another  supervising employee identified by Plaintiff in the FAC, was never employed by  WMCI and was only ever employed by USA Waste.   (WMCI SSUMF Nos. 10; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec. ¶6.)  Joey Bravo was also not an employee of  WMCI.  (WMCI SSUMF No. 9, Burns Dec.,  ¶5.)  WMCI never issued a paycheck to  Plaintiff and any earnings statements, paychecks and W-2s were issued by USA  Waste.  (WMCI SSUMF Nos, 11-14; Defendant’s  COE, Burns Dec. ¶¶7-8.)  Plaintiff’s  unemployment claim only named USA Waste.   (WMCI SSUMF No. 15; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec., ¶9.)               Based  on these facts, WMCI was not Plaintiff’s employer.  WMCI did not hire Plaintiff, did not pay  Plaintiff, did not oversee Plaintiff, nor did its employees.  The evidence establishes that WMI did not  exercise control over USA Waste or WMCI beyond that normally exercised by a  parent over its subsidiary.               The  persons identified by Plaintiff as making the day-to-day decisions regarding  his employment were also employed by USA Waste, not WMI.  Plaintiff only identifies Carmen Moreno, Joey  Bravo and Nicholas Moreno as the persons who oversaw him and were involved in  the decision to terminate.  These  individuals were never employees of WMI.   (WMCI’s SSUMF Nos. 8-10.)               Plaintiff  fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether WMCI was his employer             Plaintiff  submits evidence that WMCI shares officers with WMI and USA Waste of California.  (Plaintiff’s Opposition to WMCI’s SSUMF No. 1;  Plaintiff’s RJN, Exs. 2 and 3.)  Plaintiff  submits evidence that Courtney Tippy is the secretary for all of the Waste  Management entities, including Waste Management, Inc. and its 400 to 500  subsidiaries.  (Gallagher Dec., Ex. 1,  Tippy Dep., pp. 12-13.)               Plaintiff  submits evidence that WMCI, USA Waste and Waste Management, Inc. all share the  same corporate offices.  (Plaintiff’s  Separate Statemnet, SSUMF No. 47.)  Plaintiff  submits copies of Plaintiff’s earnings statements, which list USA Waste of  California, Inc. under “Company Name.”   (Gallagher Dec., v. 1, Ex. 17, USAWASTE000116.)  The same earnings statement identifies the  mailing address as  “Waste Management” at  1001 Fannin Street, Suite 400, Houston, TX.   (Id.)               Plaintiff  submits evidence that WMI does not have any employees and must therefore act  through the employees of its wholly owned subsidiaries.  (Gallagher Dec., Ex. 1, Tippy Dep.,  64:16-20.)  Plaintiff submits evidence  that WMI stated in its 2021 Form 10-K, “[w]e employed approximately 48,500  people as of December 31, 2021.”   (Gallagher Dec., Ex. 5, WMI 2021 10-K, p. 004.)  Plaintiff submits his testimony identifying  WMI as one of his employers.  (Gallager  Dec., Ex. 14, Plaintiff’s Dep., 29:19-24.)                None  of Plaintiff’s evidence demonstrates control over the day-to-day employment  decisions regarding Plaintiff’s employment.   There is no evidence that WMCI ever hired Plaintiff, oversaw the terms  of his employment, including discipline or termination, or paid him.  Plaintiff’s evidence is largely directed at  establishing that WMI was his joint employer with USA Waste.  WMI’s summary judgment was denied precisely  because Plaintiff’s evidence raised an issue as to whether WMI was his  employer.             However,  that same evidence does not establish that WMCI was his employer.  The mere fact that WMCI shared some officers and  a physical office address with WMI does not establish WMCI’s control over his  employment.  The undisputed evidence  establishes that Plaintiff’s paychecks and earnings statements were issued by  USA Waste, that the supervisors identified by Plaintiff were employed by USA  Waste, that Plaintiff applied to work with WMI and per his deposition  testimony, that he worked for WMI and USA Waste.  Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of  fact as to whether WMCI was a joint employer with WMI and USA Waste.   Triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMCI can  be held liable as the alter ego of WMI             Alter Ego Law               Alter ego is a recognized theory of derivative  liability in California and it is not improper for Plaintiff to assert it.  (Automotriz Del Golfo De California SA de  CV v. Resnicke, et al. (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796; Sonora Diamond Corp.et  al. v. Supr. Ct. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538; 9 Witkin, Summary  (11th ed. 2017), Corp §11.)  “To recover  on an alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words ‘alter ego,’ but  must allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an  unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.”  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th  399, 415.)  Merely alleging that “a  person owns all of the corporate stock and makes all of the management  decisions is insufficient to cause the court to disregard the corporate  entity.”  (Id.)               “Several factors are to be considered in applying the  doctrine; among them are: commingling of funds and other assets…the treatment  by an individual of the assets of the corporation as his own…sole ownership of  all of the stock in a corporation by one individual or the members of a family;  the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation; the total absence of  corporate assets, and undercapitalization; the use of a corporation as a mere  shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an  individual or another corporation…the disregard of legal formalities and the  failure to maintain arm's length relationships among related entities…the  diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a stockholder or other person  or entity, to the detriment of creditors…the contracting with another with  intent to avoid performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against  personal liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal  transactions…This long list of factors is not exhaustive. The enumerated  factors may be considered among others under the particular circumstances of  each case.”  (Id. at 417–418.)               “Critically, no single factor is  determinative, and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to  determine whether to apply the doctrine.   There is no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be  pierced; rather the result will depend on the circumstances of each particular  case.  Because it is founded on equitable  principles, application of the alter ego is not made to depend upon prior  decisions involving factual situations which appear to be similar.  It is the general rule that the conditions  under which a corporate entity may be disregarded vary according to the  circumstances of each case.”  (JPV I  L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, 195.)  The “alter ego inquiry may, in appropriate  circumstances, focus narrowly on certain inequitable uses of the corporate from  for specific purposes.”  (Id.)             In determining whether to apply  alter ego, the court must consider “all the circumstances relevant to the alter  ego inquiry.”  (Id. at 196.)  This includes arbitral findings that are  entitled to collateral estoppel effect.  (Id.)               Alter ego does not require a showing  that the use of the corporate form was a “sham, in bad faith, or intended to  defraud.”  (Id. at 199.)  “[C]ourts may ignore the corporate entity  under the alter ego doctrine “when the corporate form is used to perpetrate a  fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable  purpose.”  (Id.)  The mere fact that a corporate entity is a  “real business with real purpose and assets and not a sham corporate entity  formed for the purpose of committing a fraud or other misdeeds” does not  preclude application of alter ego.  Such  a “narrow formulation of the doctrine based on the purposes of the corporate  entity’s formation” is a “misunderstanding of the applicable law.”  (Id.)                The “inequitable result” prong of  alter ego requires a “finding that the facts are such that adherence to the  fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud or  promote injustice.  The test for this  requirement is that if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone,  it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.  An inequitable result does not require a  wrongful intent.”  (Id. at 200.)  While inability to collect alone does not  satisfy the inequitable result prong, “inability to collect combined with other  factors indicating inequitable uses of the corporate form, may justify the  unjust result element for alter ego liability.”   (Id.)              “The conditions under which the  corporate entity may be disregarded vary according to the circumstances in each  case and the matter is particularly within the province of the trial court.”  (Misik v. D'Arco (2011) 197  Cal.App.4th 1065, 1071–1072.)  “Whether a  party is liable under an alter ego theory is a question of fact.”  (Leek, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th  at 418.)                 WMCI does not address  alter ego and fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegation of alter ego in the FAC             WMCI’s motion fails to address whether  it can be held liable based on alter ego.   In opposition, Plaintiff argues WMCI’s liability based on its status as  an alter ego of WMI and USA Waste.  WMCI  responds to Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations in its reply.             Plaintiff alleges in his FAC that  WMCI  and all other defendants were  acting as alter egos of one another.  (FAC,  ¶12.)  As moving party on summary  judgment, WMCI was required to first negate Plaintiff’s allegation of alter ego  liability before the burden shifted to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of  fact on the theory.  (Mosley, supra,  49 Cal.App.5th at 434–435; Thatcher, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at  1086-1087.)  WMCI failed to satisfy its  initial burden on the alter ego theory.   Triable issues of fact therefore remain as to whether WMCI is liable to  Plaintiff as the alter ego of WMI and/or USA Management.               The mere fact that WMCI negated  Plaintiff’s allegation that it was his employer therefore does not resolve the  ultimate issue of whether WMCI can be held liable for the obligations of  whichever entity or entities are deemed Plaintiff’s employer, i.e. WMI and/or  USA Management.  WMCI’s motion for  summary judgment is denied.   Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendants  terminated Plaintiff for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason McDonnell  Douglas Test and burdens on summary judgment of FEHA discrimination claims             “It  is an unlawful employment practice…for an employer, because of the…age…of any  person…to discharge the person from employment or from a training program  leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or  in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  Govt. C. §12940(a).               An employment discrimination case  can be proven with direct or circumstantial evidence.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)  24 Cal.4th 317, 356.)  “[D]irect evidence  of intentional discrimination is rare, and that such claims must usually be  proved circumstantially.”  (Id. at  354.)               In response to this reality, the  courts apply a burden shifting test to circumstantial evidence cases of  discrimination known as the “McDonnell Douglas” test, first articulated in McDonnell  Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.   (Id.)  However, in the rare  case where a plaintiff possesses direct evidence of discrimination, the  burden-shifting analysis under the McDonnell Douglas test and discussed  in Guz does not apply.”  (DeJung v.  Supr. Ct. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 550 (direct evidence of discrimination  presented where presiding judge informed 65-year old applicant for full-time  commissioner position that hiring committee indicated they wanted to hire a  candidate who was “younger,” “maybe in their mid-40s”).)               “At trial, the McDonnell Douglas  test places on the plaintiff the initial burden to establish a prima facie case  of discrimination…Generally, the plaintiff must provide evidence that (1) he  was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he  sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered  an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an  available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory  motive.  If, at trial, the plaintiff  establishes a prima facie case, a presumption of discrimination arises.  This presumption, though rebuttable, is  legally mandatory.”  (Guz v. Bechtel  Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354–56.)                The burden then “shifts to the  employer to rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence, sufficient  to raise a genuine issue of fact and to justify a judgment for the employer,  that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  If the employer sustains this burden, the  presumption of discrimination disappears”   (Id.)               Where a defendant employer moves for  summary judgment, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no  unlawful discrimination occurred.  (Guz  v. Bechtel Nat’l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355; see Jones v. R.J.  Donovan Correctional Facility (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1379.  “The burdens and order of proof therefore  shift under the McDonnell Douglas test when an employer defendant seeks  summary judgment.  An employer defendant  may meet its initial burden on summary judgment, and require the employee  plaintiff to present evidence establishing a triable issue of material fact, by  presenting evidence that either negates an element of the employee's prima  facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for taking the  adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.  (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966.)             “To avoid summary judgment on the  second of these two grounds [legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for adverse  action], an employee claiming discrimination must offer substantial evidence  that the employer's stated nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse action was  untrue or pretextual, or evidence the employer acted with a discriminatory  animus, or a combination of the two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could  conclude the employer engaged in intentional discrimination.”  (Id.)             “The plaintiff must then have the  opportunity to attack the employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for  discrimination, or to offer any other evidence of discriminatory motive.  In an appropriate case, evidence of dishonest  reasons, considered together with the elements of the prima facie case, may  permit a finding of prohibited bias.  The  ultimate burden of persuasion on the issue of actual discrimination remains  with the plaintiff.”  (Guz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at 354-355.)             “[T]he employee must produce  substantial responsive evidence that the employer’s showing was untrue or  pretextual thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  (Hersant v. Ca. Dept. of Social Services  (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.)   The employee “must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,  inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered  legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally  find them unworthy of credence and hence infer that the employer did not act  for the asserted non-discriminatory reasons.”   (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72  Cal.App.4th 798, 807.)             Defendant WMCI presents a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff’s employment              The following discussion mirrors  that set forth in the ruling on WMI’s motion for summary judgment.  WMCI and WMI assert the same arguments and  present the same evidence in support of their position that Plaintiff was  discriminated for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.               WMCI submits evidence that Plaintiff  was bound by the Collective Bargaining   Agreement and that pursuant to the CBA, Plaintiff was subject to “Life  Critical Rules.”  (WMCI SSUMF No. 28, WMCI’s  COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex. 5.)  WMCI  submits evidence that Plaintiff violated Life Critical Rule 6, which prohibits  an operator from operating vehicles against traffic and requires the drivers to  never zigzag.  (Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 39-47,  WMCI’s COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 72:17-22, Ex. 13.)  Plaintiff stated at deposition that he placed  the roll off bin in a position that violated Defendant’s official rules.  (WMCI SSUMF No. 43, WMCI’s COE, Ex. E, Pl.  Depo., 74:16-75:1.)  Plaintiff also  maintained that drivers were told that if the job could be done in a safe  manner despite violating the rule, and Defendants agreed to it, the job could  be done that way.  (Id.)             Defendant WMCI has therefore  presented evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff’s  employment.  The burden therefore shifts  to the Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact.             Plaintiff submits substantial  evidence that the legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason given for his  termination was untrue or pretextual             In order to defeat Defendant’s  showing of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff,  Plaintiff must submit substantial evidence that (1) WMCI’s stated  nondiscriminatory reason for terminating him was untrue or pretextual, or (2) evidence  WMCI acted with a discriminatory animus, or (3) a combination of the two, such  that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the employer engaged in  intentional discrimination.  (Swanson,  supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 966.)  “It  is not sufficient for an employee to make a bare prima facie showing or to  simply deny the credibility of the employer's witnesses or to speculate as to  discriminatory motive.  Rather it is  incumbent upon the employee to produce substantial responsive evidence  demonstrating the existence of a material triable controversy as to pretext or  discriminatory animus on the part of the employer.” (Serri v. Santa Clara  University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 862.)            Plaintiff  submits substantial evidence that the reason given for terminating him was  pretextual or false.  Plaintiff submits  evidence that drivers were instructed to place roll-off bins in the way  requested by the client and if a client requested placement in a way that was  different from that required under Waste Management rules, drivers were told to  get permission from a supervisor or dispatch.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5;  Ex. 23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)  Plaintiff submits substantial evidence that  the placement of the subject roll-off bin facing opposite the direction of  traffic at the location was common practice with the drivers and was with the  approval of supervisors and the client.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5;  Ex. 23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)               Plaintiff also submits evidence that  the client had requested the bin to be placed against the flow of traffic.  Plaintiff relies on the “Corrective Action  Report” submitted by Defendant in support of its MSJ and the testimony of  Gomez, Artiga and Salas.  (Defendant’s  Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex. 13, USAWASTE000297; Gallagher Dec.  with Compendium of Exhibits, v. 1, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5; Ex. 23, Artiga  Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)               Perhaps the most compelling evidence  of pretext is the testimony of Martin Ramirez Salas.  Nicholas Moreno was informed of Artiga’s  alleged violation of Rule 6 on January 19, 2018.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 59.)  On that same date, Moreno contacted driver  Salas to relocate the rolling bin that Artiga had placed against the direction  of traffic in violation of Rule 6.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 24, Salas Dec.,  ¶5.)  Later that same day, Moreno  contacted Salas and asked him to move the rolling bin back to the same position  Artiga had placed it previously.  (Id.  at ¶5.)               Plaintiff submits substantial  evidence that it was common practice for drivers to place the rolling bin in  exactly the position Plaintiff had, that both the client and management had  approved placement of the bin in that position despite it violating the rules  and that Moreno instructed Ramirez Salas to place the bin back into that exact  same position Plaintiff had placed it.   Based on this evidence, Plaintiff establishes with substantial evidence  that the reason given for his termination—violation of Rule 6 by placing the  rolling bin with against the direction of traffic—was false or pretextual.               WMCI argues vociferously that there  is no evidence that any comments were made that would indicate any  discriminatory animus.  However, as  discussed in Swanson and Serri, to rebut Defendant’s showing of a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff, Plaintiff was  only required to submit substantial evidence that the reason given was  pretextual or false.  Plaintiff was not  required to present evidence that WMCI acted with a discriminatory animus,  although that was also an option.             Defendant WMCI’s motion for summary  judgment on grounds that it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for  terminating Plaintiff is denied.               Triable issues of fact remain as to Plaintiff’s cause  of action for violation of Labor Code §1102.5 Labor Code §§1102.5 and 1102.6             “An employer, or any person acting  on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for  disclosing information, or because the employer believes that the employee  disclosed or may disclose information,…to a person with authority over the  employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or  correct the violation or noncompliance…if the employee has reasonable cause to  believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute,  or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or  regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of the  employee's job duties.”  (Labor Code  §1102.5(b).)             “In a civil action or administrative  proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been demonstrated by  a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5  was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against the  employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear  and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for  legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in  activities protected by Section 1102.5.”   (Labor Code §1102.6.)             “Section 1102.6 provides the  governing framework for the presentation and evaluation of whistleblower  retaliation claims brought under section 1102.5. First, it places the burden on  the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation  for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested  employment action. The plaintiff need not satisfy McDonnell Douglas in  order to discharge this burden. Once the plaintiff has made the required  showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and  convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for  legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected  activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG  Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)             Section 1102.6 “explicitly imposes a  higher burden of production, clear and convincing,” on the employer to  establish that “it would have taken the action in question for legitimate,  independent reasons even had plaintiff not engaged in the protected activity.”  (Vataro v. County of Sacramento (2022)  79 Cal.App.5th 367, 379.)  “It is not  enough…that an employer shows it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for  the adverse employment action. Were that the standard, then an employer could  satisfy its burden simply by showing it had one legitimate reason for its  action, even if several illegitimate reasons principally motivated its  decision.  But that is not the applicable  standard here. Under section 1102.6, the employer must instead show ‘the  alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if  the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.’”  (Id.)             Under Labor Code §1102.6, an  employee need not show that the employer’s nonretaliatory reason for the  employment action was pretextual.  (Lawson,  supra, 12 Cal.5th at 715-716.)   “Even if the employer had a genuine, nonretaliatory reason for its  adverse action, the plaintiff still carries the burden assigned by [Labor Code  §1102.6] if it is shown that the employer also had at least one retaliatory  reason that was a contributing factor in the action.”  (Id.)              An employer satisfies its burden on  a defense summary judgment if it presents evidence that would “require a  reasonable factfinder to find it highly probable’” that the employment action  would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee  had not engaged in the protected conduct under Labor Code §1102.5.  (Vataro, supra, 79 Cal.App.5th  at 386 (employer satisfied its burden on summary judgment of Labor Code  §1102.5(b) claim with undisputed evidence that employee had been insubordinate,  disrespectful and dishonest, including employee’s own concession that she was  “difficult to work with, distant and unwilling to cooperate”)             WMCI fails to negate allegations  of whistleblower conduct              WMCI argues Plaintiff’s complaint  regarding the number of hours that drivers were forced to work does not rise to  the level of whistleblower conduct.  WMI  argues Plaintiff cannot establish that retaliation played a role in his  termination.             WMCI fails to negate Plaintiff’s  allegations of whistleblowing.  Labor  Code §1102.5 applies if the “employee has reasonable cause to believe  that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a  violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or  regulation.”  (Labor Code  §1102.5(b).)  Plaintiff alleges that he  complained about safety violations, overworking employees, underpaying  employees, denying Plaintiff and others meal and rest breaks and forcing them  to work long hours, driving large trucks even when they were fatigued.  (FAC, ¶157.)   Plaintiff alleges that he reasonably believed these acts violated wage  and hour laws, including Labor Code 1198.3, et seq., 1194, et seq., 226.7, 201  and 202, 226 and 117, 6310, et seq, 6311, et seq.  (FAC, ¶157.)                As moving party, WMCI fails to  satisfy its burden of presenting evidence that Plaintiff reasonably believed  these acts constituted a violation of state law.  WMCI merely argues that complaints regarding  working too many hours is a purely internal personnel matter, not disclosures  of potential violations of law.  WMCI  oversimplifies the FAC’s allegations.   Plaintiff allegedly complained about more than long hours. Plaintiff  allegedly complained about safety issues, failures to provide meal and rest  breaks, underpayment and forcing drivers to drive under dangerous  conditions.               WMCI’s reliance on Patten v.  Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378  is also misplaced.  In Patten, the  Court found that two of four disclosures by the plaintiff did not qualify as  whistleblowing under Labor Code §1102.5.   (Patten, supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at 1382 and  1385.)  Those disclosures involved  teachers who allegedly peered into the girls locker room and made off color  remarks.  However, in Patten, the  plaintiff admitted that those two disclosures were merely forwarded to human resources  for “personnel action.”  (Id. at  1385.)  Based on these admissions,  plaintiff’s disclosures did not qualify as disclosures of legal violations but  reports of an internal personnel matter.   (Id.)             Here, Plaintiff alleges that he  reported what he reasonably believed to be violations of the law, not merely  internal personnel policy.  Unlike Patten,  there is no evidence undermining Plaintiff’s reasonable belief that safety  issues, failures to provide meal and rest breaks, underpayment and forcing  drivers to drive long hours under dangerous conditions were violations of the  law.               In addition, WMCI argues Plaintiff  cannot demonstrate that he was terminated in retaliation for these  complaints.  However, WMCI is the moving  party, not Plaintiff.  WMCI was required  to establish as the party moving for summary judgment that it would have  terminated Plaintiff even absent the alleged whistleblowing.  As previously discussed, WMCI demonstrates  that there was a legitimate reason for termination but nothing more.  Even if this were sufficient under Labor Code  §1102.5, Plaintiff has submitted evidence raising a triable issue of fact as to  whether the stated reason for termination was false and whether Plaintiff would  have been terminated were it not for the alleged whistleblowing conduct.   WMCI fails to establish that Workers’ Compensation  Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s IIED claim Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity under Labor Code  §3602             “Where the conditions of  compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to recover  compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and Sections  3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her  dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the  employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,  the employee's industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her  dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.”  (Labor Code §3602.)             Workers’ compensation is the  exclusive remedy for a claim based on conduct that occurred in the normal  course of the employer-employee relationship.   (Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th  876, 902.)  A claim for emotional  distress based on conduct in the workplace is not subject to Worker’s  Compensation Exclusivity under certain circumstances, such as when it is  outside the normal relationship or a violation of public policy.  (Smith v. International Brotherhood of  Electrical Workers (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1637, 1658.)  Garden variety termination of employment is  not outside the normality of an employment relationship without further facts  placing it outside the normal relationship.   (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 25.)             “A number of California authorities  have concluded claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress in the  employment context may be asserted where the actionable conduct also forms the  basis for a FEHA violation.”  (Light  v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 97.)  Thus, where the emotional distress results  from unlawful discrimination or other misconduct that “exceeds the normal part  of the employment relationship” exclusivity does not apply.  (Livitsanos v. Sup.Ct. (Continental  Culture Specialists, Inc.) (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 756 (emotional distress  resulting from employer's defamation and harassment); Nazir v. United  Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  Several cases have held that the exclusivity  of workers’ compensation law does not apply to emotional distress caused by  workplace discrimination.  (Cornell v.  Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 946 (plaintiff can pursue  IIED claim in employment context where conduct at issue violates FEHA, but  finding plaintiff failed to satisfy IIED elements); Light v. California  Dept. of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 101 (emotional  distress based on discrimination and retaliation alleged to violate FEHA); Fretland  v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492 (emotional distress  resulting from alleged work-related injury discrimination); Murray v.  Oceanside Unified School Dist. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1362 (abrogated  on other grounds by Hart v. National Mortg. & Land Co. (1987) 189  Cal.App.3d 1420)(emotional distress allegedly resulting from continuing pattern  of workplace harassment based on sexual orientation).)             Here, Plaintiff is alleging  emotional distress damages as a result of termination based on age  discrimination and whistleblower retaliation.   Plaintiff’s emotional distress is therefore not the result of a “garden  variety termination.”               WMCI fails to establish that  Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by Labor Code §3602. Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendant  engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct in connection with Plaintiff’s IIED  claim             To state an IIED claim, the  plaintiff must allege facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress.   (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147  (plaintiff alleged outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive  statements made by defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and  3 of his supervisors); Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534  (affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to  amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct).)  Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a  question of fact but can be determined as an issue of law.  (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th  at 147.)               WMCI argues it did not engage in  extreme and outrageous conduct, because it terminated Plaintiff for a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory, nonretaliatory reason.  However, as discussed above, triable issues  of fact remain as to whether WMCI terminated Plaintiff because of his age and  whether WMCI terminated Plaintiff for complaining about hour, wage, safety and  rest break violations.  As such, WMCI  fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of outrageous conduct.               Triable issues of fact remain as to  whether WMCI engaged in the alleged outrageous conduct.             Workers’ Compensation  Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s negligent hiring claim             An employee’s claims for negligent  supervision, retention and hiring are barred by Workers’ Compensation  Exclusivity, even in cases where the employee alleges harassment.  (Coit Drapery Cleaners, Inc. v. Sequoia  Ins. Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.5th 1595, 1606.)  However, where the employer ratifies the  harassment, the employee may sue the employer for harassment directly and such  claim would not be barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.  (Id.)             WMCI argues Plaintiff’s negligent  hiring claim is barred by Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity.  Plaintiff did not respond to this  argument.               No triable issues remain as to the  negligent hiring and supervision claim.   Defendant WMI’s motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the 6th  cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.             Triable issues of fact remain  as to punitive damages             “In the usual case, the question of  whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is  for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar  circumstances of each case.  But the  issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher  proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a  stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case  for punitive damages at summary judgment.   However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear  and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into  account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,  since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be  necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary  standard.  Summary judgment on the issue  of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's  evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court  (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v.  Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  The party moving for adjudication of a  plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)             As the moving party seeking  adjudication of the punitive damages claim, the initial burden was on the WMCI  to negate Plaintiff’s claims of malice, fraud and oppression.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)  Only if that burden was satisfied would the  burden shift to Plaintiff to produce clear and convincing evidence of malice,  fraud and oppression.  (Mosley v.  Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435  (landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their  tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment  where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher  v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot  grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first  determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)             WMCI’s only argument is that  Plaintiff has not presented evidence of fraudulent or oppressive conduct and  that he relies entirely on unsubstantiated allegations of age discrimination  and retaliation.  However, as discussed  above, triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMI discriminated against  Plaintiff based on age or retaliated against him for complaining about  potential legal violations.  As such,  triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMI engaged in malicious conduct  under Civil Code §3294.               WMCI’s motion for summary  adjudication of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is denied.               WMCI fails to establish that  Plaintiff’s claims are preempted under Section 301 of the Labor Management  Relations Act             Section 301 of the LMRA states:  “Suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization  representing employees in an industry affecting commerce ... may be brought in  any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties.” 29  U.S.C. § 185(a).  “[F]ederal common law  preempts the use of state contract law in CBA interpretation and  enforcement.”  (Kobold v. Good  Samaritan Regional Medical Center (9th Cir. 2016) 832 F.3d 1024, 1032.)               Section 301 does not preempt state  law claims that do not require construing a collective bargaining  agreement.  (Lingle v. Norge Div. of  Magic Chef, Inc., 486 U.S. 399, 408 (1988).   “Preemption is appropriate… only when the provisions of a  collective-bargaining agreement must be interpreted.”  (Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc.  (9th Cir. 1993) 998 F.2d 743, 748.)               “Critically, not every dispute  concerning employment, or tangentially involving a provision of a  collective-bargaining agreement, is pre-empted by § 301.  Drawing on Supreme Court precedent, this  court has articulated a two-step inquiry to analyze § 301 preemption of state  law claims. First, a court must determine whether the asserted cause of action  involves a right conferred upon an employee by virtue of state law, not by a  CBA. If the right exists solely as a result of the CBA, then the claim is  preempted, and the analysis ends there…If the court determines that the right  underlying the plaintiff's state law claim(s) exists independently of the CBA,  it moves to the second step, asking whether the right is nevertheless  substantially dependent on analysis of a collective-bargaining agreement.”  (Kobold, supra, 832 F.3d at  1032.)               FEHA claims are not preempted by  Section 301.  “In every case in which we  have considered an action brought under the California Employment Act, we have  held that it is not preempted by section 301.”   (Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc. (1993) 998 F.2d  743,748.)  Antidiscrimination statutes,  like FEHA, are not preempted by section 301, because the right is defined and  enforced under state law without reference to the terms of any collective  bargaining agreement.  (Chmiel v.  Beverly Wilshire Hotel Co. (9th Cir. 1989) 873 F.2d 1283, 1286.)                 WMCI fails to establish that  resolution of Plaintiff’s claims requires interpretation of the CBA.  While Plaintiff was terminated pursuant to  Rule 6 and the CBA, there is no dispute as to the terms of the CBA or its interpretation.  Plaintiff admits that his conduct violated  Rule 6 but he maintains that other drivers were doing the same thing he was  fired for doing and they were all doing it at the behest of management.  Plaintiff’s claim is that he was terminated  due to his age and in retaliation for his complaints regarding working  conditions.  Resolution of such claims  may “reference” the CBA to determine the terms and conditions of employment,  but Plaintiff’s underlying claim is that his employers discriminated and retaliated  against him in applying or altering those terms and conditions.  (Ramirez, supra, 998 F.2d at  748-749 (Section 301 did not preempt plaintiff’s FEHA claims of national origin  discrimination, because the claims did not require interpretation of the CBA  and were based on discrimination in application of the terms of employment,  which included the CBA.)  WMI fails to  establish that Plaintiff’s remaining claims are preempted by Section 301.               WMCI’s motion for summary judgment  based on Section 301 preemption is denied.    Conclusion             WMCI’s  Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.   Triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMCI is liable to Plaintiff  based as an alter ego of Plaintiff’s employer and whether Plaintiff was  terminated as a result of age discrimination and/or in retaliation for  complaining about working conditions that he reasonably believed were legal  violations.  WMCI fails to establish that  Plaintiff’s claims are barred by Section 301 of the LMRA or that IIED is barred  by worker’s compensation exclusivity.   For these reasons, WMCI also fails to establish as an issue of law that  it did not engage in malicious conduct through its managing agents for purposes  of Civil Code §3294.             WMCI’s Motion for Summary  Adjudication is GRANTED as to the Negligent Hiring and Supervision claim and  DENIED as to all other issues and causes of action.  Plaintiff’s negligent hiring and supervision  claim is barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.               It is  so ordered.     Dated: March 13, 2024   _______________________ Rolf M. Treu Judge of the  Superior CourtSuperior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        JOEL    ARTIGA,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs. WASTE    MANAGEMENT, ET AL.,                                 Defendants.   Case No.:  19STCV46508 DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed:  December 23, 2019 FAC    Filed:   May 26, 2020 Trial    Date:  January 13, 2025      Hearing  date:              March  13, 2024 Moving  Party:             Defendant  Nicholas Moreno.  Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  Joel Artiga Motion  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication  The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.             The  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary Adjudication, is  DENIED.     Background             Plaintiff  worked for Defendants in the LA Dumpster Rental location for over 20  years.  Plaintiff was suspended in  January 2018 for failing to properly position a dumpster container at a  construction site, despite the fact that every single driver who worked for  Defendants positioned the dumpster container in the exact same way.  Plaintiff alleges supervisors also directed  and permitted drivers to position the dumpster in this way.  After his supervisor, Defendant Nicholas  Moreno, staged the container in the same position in violation of company  policy, he informed Plaintiff’s direct supervisor and unjustly placed blame on  Plaintiff.  As a result, Defendants  discriminated, harassed and retaliated against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was ultimately terminated.               Plaintiff  alleges he was discriminated against and terminated due to his age, which was  52 years at the time of the relevant events.   Plaintiff alleges Defendants stated multiple times that they wanted to  replace older employees like Plaintiff with younger, cheaper employees.               On  December 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Waste  Management, Waste Management of California Inc. (“WMCI”), USA Waste Management  of California (“USA Waste”), A Waste Management Company and Nicholas  Moreno.  On May 26, 2020, Plaintiff filed  the operative First Amended Complaint against these same Defendants alleging  (1) age discrimination; (2) harassment based on age; (3) failure to prevent  harassment and discrimination; (4) wrongful termination in violation of public  policy; (5) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (6) negligent hiring and  supervision; and (7) IIED.               On  March 17, 2022, Defendant Moreno filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment,  or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.   Plaintiff did not file any response to Moreno’s Motion for Summary  Judgment.  Moreno did not file any reply.      Legal  Standard             Summary  judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to  conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of  persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is  entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material  fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to  find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in  accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)             Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary  adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses,  the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A  motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes  of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of  duty.”  (Id.)             Where  a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either  “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,  cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of  action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure  §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy  this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the  lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)  31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the  defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a  “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action  or defense thereto.”  (Id.)               “A  party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of  showing there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to  file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has carried  its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of  the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion does not  initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing  papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty  Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s failure to  address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing  operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party failed  to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky Stores,  Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant summary  judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the  moving party has satisfied its burden).)             In  addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed  strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.  (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All  doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue  of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor  of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.) Request  for Judicial Notice No request for  judicial notice was submitted.   Evidentiary  Objections  No evidentiary  objections were asserted.   Discussion             Parties’ Positions             Moreno’s  MSJ filed on March 17, 2022             Moreno  argues he is only named in the IIED claim.   Moreno argues workers’ compensation exclusivity bars IIED claims that  are not tethered to a tort cause of action for wrongful termination or wrongful  termination in violation of an express statute.   Moreno argues he is not named in Plaintiff’s claims for age  discrimination, age harassment, wrongful termination and whistleblower  retaliation.  Morena argues the IIED  claim against him therefore fails as a matter of law based on workers’  compensation exclusivity.             Moreno  argues there is no evidence that he engaged in extreme or outrageous  conduct.  Moreno argues there is no  evidence that he ever made an inappropriate or offensive remark due to his  age.  Moreno argues it is undisputed that  Moreno never ieven spoke to Plaintiff.  Moreno  argues Plaintiff was never discriminated against due to his age.  Moreno argues his suspension of Plaintiff and  his direction to drivers to position their roll-off box as Plaintiff did were  merely garden-variety personnel management decisions that cannot form the basis  for IIED.               Moreno  argues Plaintiff’s IIED claim also fails as a matter of law, because Plaintiff  did not suffer severe emotional distress. Moreno argues Plaintiff has never  sought treatment for his insomnia or anxiety, nor has he ever been diagnosed  with either.  Moreno argues Plaintiff’s  depression resolved after he began looking for work.             Moreno  argues Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by worker’s compensation exclusivity,  because Plaintiff is alleging injury as a result of acts inherent in the  employment relationship.  Moreno argues Plaintiff’s  termination does not exceed the normal risks in an employment  relationship.               Moreno  argues Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim must fail.  Moreno argues there is no evidence that he  ever engaged in fraudulent or oppressive conduct.  Moreno argues he merely engaged in ordinary  personnel, management decisionmaking.   Moreno argues there is no evidence that he was an officer, director or  managing agent who had advance knowledge of the alleged malicious, oppressive  or fraudulent acts.               Plaintiff’s  Opposition             Plaintiff  did not file an opposition to Moreno’s Motion for Summary Judgment.             Moreno’s  Reply             Moreno  did not file a reply.         Moreno fails to  establish that Plaintiff’s IIED claim against him is barred by workers’  compensation exclusivity               Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity  under Labor Code §3602               “Where  the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to  recover compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and  Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or  her dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the  employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,  the employee's industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her  dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.”  (Labor Code §3602.)             Workers’ compensation is the  exclusive remedy for a claim based on conduct that occurred in the normal  course of the employer-employee relationship.   (Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th  876, 902.)  A claim for emotional  distress based on conduct in the workplace is not subject to Worker’s  Compensation Exclusivity under certain circumstances, such as when it is  outside the normal relationship or a violation of public policy.  (Smith v. International Brotherhood of  Electrical Workers (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1637, 1658.)  Garden variety termination of employment is  not outside the normality of an employment relationship without further facts  placing it outside the normal relationship.   (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 25.)             “A number of California authorities  have concluded claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress in the  employment context may be asserted where the actionable conduct also forms the  basis for a FEHA violation.”  (Light  v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 97.)  Thus, where the emotional distress results  from unlawful discrimination or other misconduct that “exceeds the normal part  of the employment relationship,” exclusivity does not apply.  (Livitsanos v. Sup.Ct. (Continental  Culture Specialists, Inc.) (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 756 (emotional distress  resulting from employer's defamation and harassment); Nazir v. United  Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  Several cases have held that the exclusivity  of workers’ compensation law does not apply to emotional distress caused by  workplace discrimination.  (Cornell v.  Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 946 (plaintiff can pursue  IIED claim in employment context where conduct at issue violates FEHA, but  finding plaintiff failed to satisfy IIED elements); Light v. California  Dept. of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 101 (emotional  distress based on discrimination and retaliation alleged to violate FEHA); Fretland  v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492 (emotional distress  resulting from alleged work-related injury discrimination); Murray v.  Oceanside Unified School Dist. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1362 (abrogated  on other grounds by Hart v. National Mortg. & Land Co. (1987) 189  Cal.App.3d 1420)(emotional distress allegedly resulting from continuing pattern  of workplace harassment based on sexual orientation).)             Plaintiff’s IIED claim is not  based on alleged discriminatory and retaliatory termination, not a garden-variety  termination             As discussed in connection with the  Motions for Summary Judgment of WMI, WMCI and USA Waste, Plaintiff is alleging  emotional distress damages as a result of termination based on age  discrimination and whistleblower retaliation.   Plaintiff’s emotional distress is therefore not the result of a “garden  variety termination.”               Moreno analogizes Plaintiff’s IIED  claim to the facts of Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist. (1987) 43  Cal.3d 148.  Moreno entirely ignores the  crucial difference between the allegations of IIED in Cole and those  alleged here—Cole did not involve any allegations of discrimination,  retaliation or wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  (Cole, supra, 43 Cal.3d at  152-154.)  Here, Plaintiff is alleging  that Defendants, including Moreno, terminated him due to his age and in  retaliation for complaining about working conditions he believed violated the  law.  As stated above, there is a  plethora of California authority holding that emotional distress flowing from  FEHA violations or wrongful termination in violation of public policy are not  subject to worker’s compensation exclusivity, because “[n]either discrimination  nor harassment is a normal incident of employment.”  (Nazir, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th  at 288.)               Moreno argues worker’s compensation  exclusivity applies, because he is not named in the underlying FEHA  discrimination, retaliation or wrongful termination causes of action.  Moreno argues the IIED claim against him is  therefore not tied to an underlying tort for wrongful termination or statutory  claim for wrongful termination.               Moreno cites Phillips v. Gemini  Moving Specialists (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 563, 577 for the  proposition that Plaintiff’s FEHA claims must be asserted against him  personally in order for Plaintiff to avoid worker’s compensation exclusivity as  to her IIED claim against him.  Phillips  predates Miklosy, supra, 44 Cal.4th at 902-303,  which held that the exception to the worker’s compensation preemption based on  contravention of a fundamental public policy only applied where a cause of  action is “not dependent upon the violation of an express statute or violation  of fundamental public policy.”  Again,  Plaintiff’s claim satisfies the exception to worker’s compensation preemption  articulated in Miklosy.   Plaintiff’s IIED claim is based on discrimination and retaliation in  violation of FEHA that falls outside the normal course of the employer-employee  relationship.               Plaintiff’s case is also  distinguishable from Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229  Cal.App.4th 144.  In Yau,  plaintiff’s IIED claim against individual coworkers based on intimidation and  harassment that occurred at the worksite was properly dismissed based on  workers’ compensation exclusivity.  (Yau,  supra, 229 Cal.App.4th at 161-162.)  The IIED claim in Yau was (1) asserted  only against the individual employees; and (2) was not based on conduct that  also formed the basis of FEHA claims or that constituted discrimination.  (Id.)                Here, Plaintiff has alleged the IIED  claim against the employer Defendants and Moreno.  The IIED claim is therefore tethered to FEHA  claims of discrimination, as well as claims of whistleblower retaliation.  Most importantly, the outrageous conduct  alleged against Moreno is the alleged discriminatory conduct that forms  the basis of Plaintiff’s FEHA claims—allegedly singling him out for investigation,  discipline and suspension based on conduct that was allegedly widespread,  standard and approved of by management due to his age, which ultimately led to  his termination.  Moreno fails to cite  any authority holding that Plaintiff’s FEHA claims must be alleged against him personally  to avoid worker’s compensation exclusivity where the outrageous conduct alleged  against him in the IIED claim is the same conduct that forms the basis of  Plaintiff’s FEHA claims.               Defendant Moreno fails to establish  that the IIED cause of action against him is barred by worker’s compensation  exclusivity.  Moreno’s motion for summary  judgment based on worker’s compensation exclusivity is denied. Moreno fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegation of  outrageous conduct against him             To state an IIED claim, the  plaintiff must allege facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability  of causing, emotional distress.  (Smith  v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147 (plaintiff alleged  outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive statements made by  defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and 3 of his  supervisors); Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534  (affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to  amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct).)  Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a  question of fact but can be determined as an issue of law.  (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th  at 147.)               Moreno moves for summary judgment on  grounds that Plaintiff has no evidence of any outrageous conduct, i.e. that  Moreno discriminated against him based on his age or retaliated against him  based on his complaints regarding working conditions.  A defendant may satisfy its burden as moving  party by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of  evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)  31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  A defendant  does not meet its burden under CCP §437(c)(o)(1) by merely “pointing out” or  “arguing” that the plaintiff does not possess or cannot reasonably obtain  necessary evidence.  (Id.; Lona  v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89 (defendant bank did not meet  its burden on summary judgment of wrongful foreclosure by merely arguing that  plaintiff lacked evidence to support her claim and only documentary evidence  submitted were the loan documents); Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 884, 890 (defendant did not establish plaintiff’s lack of evidence  or inability to reasonably obtain evidence of plaintiff’s ability and  willingness to perform by pointing to plaintiff’s refusal to answer certain  questions during deposition on grounds of a meritless privacy objection; such a  refusal, regardless of its merit, was neither an admission nor a factually  devoid discovery response).)             Moreno fails to establish that  Plaintiff cannot establish the outrageous conduct element of his claim due to  lack of evidence.  Merely submitting  evidence that Plaintiff was terminated for actually violating the company’s  policy does not address Plaintiff’s full allegations.  (Moreno’s SSUMF No. 18-30.)  Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that he was fired for  placing the roll-out bin in a manner that violated company policy but that the  decision to fire was a pretext for age discrimination, given that supervisors  told him to place the bin in that way, the client asked that it be placed that  way and other drivers placed the bin that way for those reasons.  (FAC, ¶¶17-18.)  Moreno’s evidence in no way addresses  Plaintiff’s allegations of circumstantial evidence that the reason for Moreno’s  investigation, Plaintiff’s suspension and Plaintiff’s ultimate termination was  a pretext for age discrimination and retaliation.  For the same reason, the absence of inappropriate  or offensive age discriminatory comments (Moreno SSUMF No. 8) does not negate  Plaintiff’s FAC allegations, nor does it establish Plaintiff’s inability to  present or obtain direct or circumstantial evidence of age discrimination or  retaliation.               In addition, as stated above,  Plaintiff’s termination based on the FAC was not a garden-variety, personnel  management decision.  Plaintiff is  alleging that the termination was motivated by age discrimination and whistleblower  retaliation.               Defendant Moreno fails to negate  Plaintiff’s allegations of outrageous conduct.   The burden therefore never shifted to Plaintiff to file an opposition  and raise a triable issue of material fact.                Triable issues of fact remain  as to whether Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress             “With respect to the requirement  that the plaintiff show severe emotional distress, this court has set a high  bar. Severe emotional distress means emotional distress of such substantial  quality or enduring quality that no reasonable person in civilized society  should be expected to endure it.”  (Hughes  v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051 (defendant’s inappropriate  comments fell “far short” of conduct so outrageous that ti exceeds all bounds  of that usually tolerated in a civilized community and plaintiff’s assertion  that she suffered “discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and  agitation as a the result of defendant’s comment to her on the telephone and at  the museum…do not compromise emotional distress of such substantial quality enduring  quality that no reasonable person in civilized society should be expected to  endure it.”)              “Severe means substantial or  enduring as distinguished from trivial or transitory. Severe emotional distress  means, then, emotional distress of such substantial quantity or enduring  quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be expected to  endure it.  It is for the court to  determine whether on the evidence severe emotional distress can be found; it is  for the jury to determine whether, on the evidence, it has in fact existed.”  (Fletcher v. Western National Life Ins.  Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397; Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber  Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1004.)  A  plaintiff, however, may recover for emotional distress alone without any  resulting physical disability.  (Fletcher,  supra, 10 Cal.App.3d at 396.)               Severe emotional distress has been  found where a plaintiff suffered problems of “alcoholism, severe headaches,  insomnia, tension and anxiety” in responses to outrageous conduct.  (Sanchez-Corea v. Bank of America  (1985) 38 Cal.3d 892, 909.)  Severe  emotional distress has also been found where a plaintiff suffered vomiting,  stomach cramps and diarrhea due to the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Hailey v. California Physicians’ Service (2007)  158 Cal.App.4th 452, 477.)               According to Moreno, although  Plaintiff claims he suffered insomnia, anxiety and depression, Plaintiff did  not suffer severe emotional distress, because (1) no medical professional ever  diagnosed him with insomnia (Defendant’s SSUMF NO. 34; Defendant’s COE, Ex. E,  Pl.’s Depo., 113:14-21; 114-16-115:8); (2) he never sought medical treatment  for anxiety or depression (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 35; Defendant’s COE, Ex. E,  Pl.’s Depo., 117:11-13; 120:20-23); and (3) the depression resolved after he  began looking for work (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 36; Defendant’s COE, Ex. E, Pl.’s  Depo., 119:1-3.)              Moreno’s evidence fails to negate  Plaintiff’s allegations of severe emotional distress.  At deposition, Plaintiff testified that for  approximately a year and a half after he was terminated, he suffered disturbed  sleep, “waking up during the night” (Defendant’s COE, Ex. E, Pl.’s Depo., 113:12-13.)  Prior to the incident he slept eight hours a  night, but after the incident, he “was constantly waking up throughout the  night.”  (Id. at 115:21-22.)  Plaintiff testified that it was “very  difficult for me.  Because to lose a job,  especially in that way after 20 years, that’s not something you forget.”  (Id. at 117:1-3.)  Plaintiff testified that for that reason, he  still suffers from anxiety due to his termination to this day.  (Id. at 117:4-7.)  Plaintiff’s full testimony regarding his  depression was that “after some time when I started looking for work, I could  say things sort of normalized, but at the same time, I still feel it a  bit.  Because like I’ve said, that’s not  something you can easily forget.”  (Id.  at 119:1-6.)                           Moreno  fails to establish as an issue of law that Plaintiff did not suffer severe  emotional distress from the alleged wrongful termination.  The mere fact that Plaintiff was not formally  diagnosed with insomnia by a medical professional does not change Plaintiff’s  direct testimony that he could not sleep after being wrongfully terminated  after 20 years of employment and was “constantly waking up at night” for at  least a year and a half after being fired.   Likewise, Moreno fails to cite any authority that Plaintiff’s failure to  seek medical attention for depression and anxiety establishes as an issue of  law that his emotional distress was not severe or that he did not actually  suffer depression and anxiety due to the wrongful termination.               Finally, Hughes is  distinguishable.  In Hughes, the court  found on summary judgment that the alleged conduct was not outrageous for  purposes of IIED as an issue of law. Here, the Court makes no such  finding.  Triable issues of fact remain  as to whether the alleged conduct was outrageous.               Moreno fails to establish that  severe emotional distress cannot be bound based on the evidence submitted in  support of the summary judgment.  Based  on the Plaintiff’s testimony, he could not stop thinking about his wrongful  termination and was constantly waking up in the middle of the night for at  least a year and a half after he was terminated.  Plaintiff also stated he was depressed and  anxious due to the termination, was constantly thinking about it and still  thinks about it to this day.               Triable issues of fact remain as to  whether Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress.  Moreno’s motion for summary judgment on  grounds that Plaintiff did not suffer severe emotional distress is denied.               Triable issues of fact remain  as to punitive damages             “In the usual case, the question of  whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is  for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar  circumstances of each case.  But the  issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher  proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a  stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case  for punitive damages at summary judgment.   However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear  and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into  account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,  since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be  necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary  standard.  Summary judgment on the issue  of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's  evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court  (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v.  Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  The party moving for adjudication of a  plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)             As the moving party seeking  adjudication of the punitive damages claim, the initial burden was on the USA  Waste to negate Plaintiff’s claims of malice, fraud and oppression.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)  Only if that burden was satisfied would the  burden shift to Plaintiff to produce clear and convincing evidence of malice,  fraud and oppression.  (Mosley v.  Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435  (landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their  tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment  where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher  v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot  grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first  determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)             Moreno’s only argument is that  Plaintiff has not presented evidence of fraudulent or oppressive conduct and  that he relies entirely on unsubstantiated allegations of age discrimination  and retaliation.  However, as discussed  above, triable issues of fact remain as to whether Moreno investigated and  suspended Plaintiff based on age discrimination and whistleblower  retaliation.  The conduct alleged was not  garden-variety personnel management decisions.   Moreno also personally engaged in the alleged outrageous conduct and  questions of ratification and authorization are irrelevant to hold him liable  for punitive damages, although he was a Manager acting on behalf of USA Waste  at all relevant times.  (Moreno’s SSUMF  No. 4.)  As such, triable issues of fact  remain as to whether USA Waste engaged in malicious conduct under Civil Code  §3294.               Moreno’s motion for summary  adjudication of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is denied.    Conclusion             Moreno’s  Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.   Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Moreno’s conduct towards  Plaintiff was outrageous conduct for purposes of IIED.  Moreno fails to establish that IIED is barred  by worker’s compensation exclusivity.   For these reasons, Moreno also fails to establish as an issue of law  that he did not engage in malicious conduct of Civil Code §3294.             It is so ordered.     Dated: March 13, 2024   _______________________ Rolf M. Treu Judge of the  Superior CourtSuperior Court of  CaliforniaCounty  of Los Angeles      JOEL    ARTIGA,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs. WASTE    MANAGEMENT, ET AL.,                                 Defendants.   Case No.:  19STCV46508 DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed:  December 23, 2019 FAC    Filed:   May 26, 2020 Trial    Date:  January 13, 2025    Hearing  date:              March  13, 2024Moving  Party:             Defendant  USA Waste of California, Inc. (erroneously sued as                                                 USA Waste Management  of California)(“USA Waste”)Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  Joel ArtigaMotion  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.            The  Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.   The Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 6th  cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.  The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED  as to all other remaining causes of action and issues, including punitive  damages.  Background            Plaintiff  worked for Defendants in the LA Dumpster Rental location for over 20  years.  Plaintiff was suspended in  January 2018 for failing to properly position a dumpster container at a  construction site, despite the fact that every single driver who worked for  Defendants positioned the dumpster container in the exact same way.  Plaintiff alleges supervisors also directed  and permitted drivers to position the dumpster in this way.  After his supervisor, Defendant Nicholas  Moreno, staged the container in the same position in violation of company  policy, he informed Plaintiff’s direct supervisor and unjustly placed blame on  Plaintiff.  As a result, Defendants  discriminated, harassed and retaliated against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was ultimately terminated.              Plaintiff  alleges he was discriminated against and terminated due to his age, which was  52 years at the time of the relevant events.   Plaintiff alleges Defendants stated multiple times that they wanted to  replace older employees like Plaintiff with younger, cheaper employees.              On  December 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Waste  Management, Waste Management of California Inc. (“WMCI”), USA Waste Management  of California (“USA Waste”), A Waste Management Company and Nicholas  Moreno.  On May 26, 2020, Plaintiff filed  the operative First Amended Complaint against these same Defendants alleging  (1) age discrimination; (2) harassment based on age; (3) failure to prevent  harassment and discrimination; (4) wrongful termination in violation of public  policy; (5) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (6) negligent hiring and  supervision; and (7) IIED.              On  March 17, 2022, Defendant USA Waste filed the instant Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.  On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to USA Waste’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  On November 13, 2023, Defendant USA Waste  filed a reply.     Legal  Standard            Summary  judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to  conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of  persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is  entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material  fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to  find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in  accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)            Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary  adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses,  the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A  motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes  of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of  duty.”  (Id.)            Where  a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either  “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,  cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of  action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure  §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy  this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the  lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)  31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the  defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a  “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action  or defense thereto.”  (Id.)              “A  party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of  showing there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to  file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has  carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's  evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion  does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the  opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific  Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s  failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana  growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party  failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky  Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant  summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine  if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)            In  addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed  strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.  (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All  doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue  of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor  of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg  v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)Request  for Judicial NoticePlaintiff’s  Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 2-3, 13, 21, 22 and 35 is  GRANTED.  These are documents filed with  government agencies.  The fact that the  documents were filed on their respective dates with these agencies is  judicially noticed.  However, the truth  of the contents of those documents is not judicially noticed.Plaintiff’s  Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 4, 5, 14 and 16 is DENIED.  These documents do not fall within the  category of judicially noticeable documents under Evidence Code §§452 and 453.  However, Exhibits 4 and 5 are admissible  evidence as statements of admission.Evidentiary  Objections USA Waste’s  Objection Nos. 1-5, 7 to Gallagher Declaration are OVERRULED.  The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos.  6 and 8 pursuant to CCP §437c(q) as immaterial to the ruling.USA Waste’s Objections  to the Gomez Declaration are OVERRULED.  USA Waste’s  Objections to the Ramirez Declaration are OVERRULED.USA Waste’s  Objections to the Artiga Declaration are OVERRULED.  Discussion            Parties’ Positions            USA Waste’s MSJ filed on March 17, 2022            USA  Waste’s arguments mirror those asserted by WMI in its Motion for Summary  Judgment.  The only distinction between  the two briefs is as to employer status.   USA Waste Management does not deny that it was Plaintiff’s  employer.              USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s claims are all preempted by Section 301 of the Labor  Management Relations Act (“LMRA”).  USA  Waste argues resolution of Plaintiff’s claims requires the Court to interpret  the Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”) between Plaintiff’s union and  Plaintiff’s employer.  USA Waste argues  the CBA governed the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment, including  the procedure and grounds for termination and discipline.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff’s complaint  challenges the legitimacy of USA Waste’s interpretation and application of the  CBA to terminate and discipline Plaintiff.   USA Waste argues the Supreme Court has held that Section 301 preempts  state law claims under these circumstances.               USA  Waste argues Plaintiff also cannot satisfy his burden to establish that his  termination was based on his age.  USA  Waste argues Plaintiff has provided no evidence that his age had anything to do  with his termination.  USA Waste argues  Plaintiff admits that the basis for his termination was his violation of Life  Critical Rule No. 6.  USA Waste argues if  Plaintiff claims this reason for his termination was pretextual, Plaintiff will  be unable to provide evidence corroborating his claim of pretext.  USA Waste argues the only comment identified  by Plaintiff as being evidence of pretext did not make any reference to his age  and was a single, isolated comment.             USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s Labor Code §1102.5 claim fails, because Plaintiff  never engaged in any whistleblower conduct.   USA Waste argues Plaintiff’s complaints about the long hours were not  disclosures of potential violations of law but purely internal personnel  matters.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff also  cannot establish that any of his alleged complaints or statements were the  basis for his termination.  USA Waste argues  the evidence establishes that Plaintiff was legitimately terminated for  violating a rule that was grounds for immediate termination.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff also made his  complaints about hours to Carmen Munoz, who was not the decisionmaker who  terminated Plaintiff.              USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by worker’s compensation  exclusivity.  USA Waste argues  Plaintiff’s allegations also do not qualify as extreme or outrageous conduct. USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s allegations only establish that WMI engaged in ordinary  managerial conduct.              USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s negligent hiring, supervision and retention claim  fails as an issue of law because it is barred by worker’s compensation  exclusivity.  USA Waste argues the  negligence claim also fails, because Plaintiff concedes that he never  complained about Bravo or Moreno during his employment.  USA Waste argues it never had notice of any  unfitness of its alleged employees, an essential element of the negligent  hiring, et al. claim.            USA  Waste argues Plaintiff’s claims for failure to prevent harassment and  discrimination and wrongful termination fail, because there was no underlying  harassment, discrimination or wrongful termination.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff will be unable to  establish that his termination for failing to properly position the roll-off  box was pretextual.            Finally,  USA Waste argues Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff has not alleged,  attested to or otherwise shown that USA Waste engaged in fraud, oppression or  malice.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff also  cannot demonstrate that an officer, director or managing agent of Defendant had  advance knowledge of the alleged wrongful acts or approved or ratified such  conduct.            Plaintiff’s  Opposition filed on November 7, 2023            Plaintiff’s  opposition to USA Waste Management’s Motion for Summary Judgment is identical  to that submitted to the Motions for Summary Judgment of WMI and WMCI.  As such, Plaintiff’s opposition includes the  argument that USA Waste is the “joint employer of Plaintiff and/or Joint  Employer/Agent or Alter Ego of USA Waste.”   (Oppositoin filed on November 7, 2023, 7:24-26.)  Because USA Waste does not dispute employer  status, Plaintiff’s arguments regarding USA Waste’s status as an  employer/agent/alter ego are omitted here.               Plaintiff  argues USA Waste fails to establish that the FEHA claims are barred and  preempted by Section 301 of the Labor Management Relation Act.  Plaintiff argues the mere fact that the CBA  might provide a remedy or a duty related to a situation is insufficient to  establish preemption.  Plaintiff argues the  Ninth Circuit has established that antidiscrimination statutes are not  preempted by Section 301, because the right at issue is defined and enforced  under state law.  Plaintiff argues  determining whether Defendants' reasons for termination were pretextual does  not require interpretation of the CBA and only involves a factual  question.              Plaintiff  argues the reason given for his termination was pretextual.  Plaintiff argues the roll-out bin was placed  facing traffic for months by Plaintiff and other employees and that they did so  per the instruction and approval of supervisors and the client.  Plaintiff argues management knew this was the  reason why the roll-out bin was placed where it was, opposing traffic.  Plaintiff’s supervisor, Carmen Munoz, bullied  other employees to sign statements regarding the roll out bin and stated to him  that she wanted to get rid of personnel.   Plaintiff argues this is sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as  to whether Defendants’ reason for terminating him was a pretext for age  discrimination.              Plaintiff  argues Defendants fail to negate any element of his Labor Code §1102.5 claim.  Plaintiff argues he complained about the number of hours he was working and  there is no evidence that he did not believe that he was complaining about  something illegal.  Plaintiff argues  Defendants have not proven by clear and convincing evidence that Plaintiff  would have been terminated even if he had not made the complaint.              Plaintiff  argues the IIED claim survives because it is based on FEHA violations.  Plaintiff argues he has suffered from extreme emotional distress as a result of  Defendants’ wrongful termination and discrimination against him.              Plaintiff  argues he is entitled to punitive damages based on FEHA violations.  Plaintiff argues Defendants have not negated  his allegations of discrimination and therefore, grounds for punitive damages.            Plaintiff  argues his claims are not barred by workers’ compensation exclusivity.  Plaintiff argues Defendants have not demonstrated that the action alleged are  within the normal scope of work, given that they qualify as FEHA  violations.  Plaintiff argues he has  suffered emotional distress due to Defendants’ termination of him based on his  age.            USA  Waste’s Reply filed on November 16, 2023             USA Waste argues there is no genuine dispute  as to the basis for Plaintiff’s termination, which was his violation of Life Critical  Rule 6.  USA Waste argues Plaintiff does  not deny that he violated Rule 6.  USA  Waste argues Plaintiff fails to present any evidence from which a trier of fact  could infer that this was a pretext for age discrimination.  USA Waste argues the violation did not  require progressive discipline under the CBA, nor does Plaintiff present any  evidence or argument that the persons who made the decision to terminate him, Dory  and Kato, had any discriminatory animus.               USA  Waste argues the claims will also require the Court to interpret the CBA.  USA Waste argues the claims are therefore  preempted by Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act.              USA  Waste argues the IIED claim is also subject to workers’ compensation  exclusivity.  USA Waste argues the IIED  claim is based on conduct that occurred at the worksite in the normal course of  the employer-employee relationship, i.e. the decision to terminate  Plaintiff.              USA  Waste argues the punitive damages claim likewise fails.  USA Waste argues the evidence establishes  that it took no actions that could justify punitive damages.  USA Waste argues it did not even participate  in the decision to terminate Plaintiff, nor did it hire him or in any way  participate in any investigation or termination of his employment.              Triable  issues of fact remain as to whether Defendants terminated Plaintiff for a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasonMcDonnell  Douglas Test and burdens on summary judgment of FEHA discrimination claims            “It  is an unlawful employment practice…for an employer, because of the…age…of any  person…to discharge the person from employment or from a training program  leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or  in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  Govt. C. §12940(a).              An employment discrimination case  can be proven with direct or circumstantial evidence.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)  24 Cal.4th 317, 356.)  “[D]irect evidence  of intentional discrimination is rare, and that such claims must usually be  proved circumstantially.”  (Id. at  354.)              In response to this reality, the  courts apply a burden shifting test to circumstantial evidence cases of  discrimination known as the “McDonnell Douglas” test, first articulated in McDonnell  Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792.   (Id.)  However, in the rare  case where a plaintiff possesses direct evidence of discrimination, the  burden-shifting analysis under the McDonnell Douglas test and discussed  in Guz does not apply.”  (DeJung v.  Supr. Ct. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 550 (direct evidence of  discrimination presented where presiding judge informed 65-year old applicant  for full-time commissioner position that hiring committee indicated they wanted  to hire a candidate who was “younger,” “maybe in their mid-40s”).)              “At trial, the McDonnell Douglas  test places on the plaintiff the initial burden to establish a prima facie case  of discrimination…Generally, the plaintiff must provide evidence that (1) he  was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he  sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered  an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an  available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory  motive.  If, at trial, the plaintiff  establishes a prima facie case, a presumption of discrimination arises.  This presumption, though rebuttable, is  legally mandatory.”  (Guz v. Bechtel  Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354–56.)               The burden then “shifts to the  employer to rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence, sufficient  to raise a genuine issue of fact and to justify a judgment for the employer,  that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  If the employer sustains this burden, the  presumption of discrimination disappears”   (Id.)              Where a defendant employer moves for  summary judgment, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no  unlawful discrimination occurred.  (Guz  v. Bechtel Nat’l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355; see Jones v. R.J.  Donovan Correctional Facility (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1379.  “The burdens and order of proof therefore  shift under the McDonnell Douglas test when an employer defendant seeks  summary judgment.  An employer defendant  may meet its initial burden on summary judgment, and require the employee  plaintiff to present evidence establishing a triable issue of material fact, by  presenting evidence that either negates an element of the employee's prima  facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for taking the  adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.  (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966.)            “To avoid summary judgment on the  second of these two grounds [legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for adverse  action], an employee claiming discrimination must offer substantial evidence  that the employer's stated nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse action was  untrue or pretextual, or evidence the employer acted with a discriminatory  animus, or a combination of the two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could  conclude the employer engaged in intentional discrimination.”  (Id.)            “The plaintiff must then have the  opportunity to attack the employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for  discrimination, or to offer any other evidence of discriminatory motive.  In an appropriate case, evidence of dishonest  reasons, considered together with the elements of the prima facie case, may  permit a finding of prohibited bias.  The  ultimate burden of persuasion on the issue of actual discrimination remains  with the plaintiff.”  (Guz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at 354-355.)            “[T]he employee must produce  substantial responsive evidence that the employer’s showing was untrue or  pretextual thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  (Hersant v. Ca. Dept. of Social Services  (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.)   The employee “must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,  inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered  legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally  find them unworthy of credence and hence infer that the employer did not act  for the asserted non-discriminatory reasons.”   (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72  Cal.App.4th 798, 807.)            Defendant USA Waste presents a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff’s employment             USA Waste submits evidence that  Plaintiff was bound by the Collective Bargaining  Agreement and that pursuant to the CBA,  Plaintiff was subject to “Life Critical Rules.”   (USA Waste’s SSUMF No. 19, Defendant’s COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex.  5.)  USA Waste submits evidence that  Plaintiff violated Life Critical Rule 6, which prohibits an operator from  operating vehicles against traffic and requires the drivers to never zigzag.  (Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 24-38, Defendant’s  COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 72:17-22, Ex. 13.)   Plaintiff stated at deposition that he placed the roll off bin in a  position that violated Defendant’s official rules.  (Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 33-34, Defendant’s  COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 72:17-22, 74:16-75:1.)   Plaintiff also maintained that drivers were told that if the job could  be done in a safe manner despite violating the rule, and Defendants agreed to  it, the job could be done that way.  (Id.)            Defendant USA Management has  therefore presented evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for  terminating Plaintiff’s employment.  The  burden therefore shifts to the Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact.            Plaintiff submits substantial  evidence that the legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason given for his  termination was untrue or pretextual            In order to defeat Defendant’s  showing of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff,  Plaintiff must submit substantial evidence that (1) USA Management’s stated  nondiscriminatory reason for terminating him was untrue or pretextual, or (2) evidence  USA Management acted with a discriminatory animus, or (3) a combination of the  two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the employer engaged  in intentional discrimination.  (Swanson,  supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 966.)  “It  is not sufficient for an employee to make a bare prima facie showing or to  simply deny the credibility of the employer's witnesses or to speculate as to  discriminatory motive.  Rather it is  incumbent upon the employee to produce substantial responsive evidence  demonstrating the existence of a material triable controversy as to pretext or  discriminatory animus on the part of the employer.” (Serri v. Santa Clara  University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 862.)                        Plaintiff submits substantial  evidence that the reason given for terminating him was pretextual or  false.  Plaintiff submits evidence that  drivers were instructed to place roll-off bins in the way requested by the  client and if a client requested placement in a way that was different from  that required under Waste Management rules, drivers were told to get permission  from a supervisor or dispatch.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5;  Ex. 23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)  Plaintiff submits substantial evidence that  the placement of the subject roll-off bin facing opposite the direction of  traffic at the location was common practice with the drivers and was with the  approval of supervisors and the client.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5; Ex.  23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)              Plaintiff also submits evidence that  the client had requested the bin to be placed against the flow of traffic.  Plaintiff relies on the “Corrective Action  Report” submitted by Defendant in support of its MSJ and the testimony of  Gomez, Artiga and Salas.  (Defendant’s  Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex. 13, USAWASTE000297; Gallagher Dec.  with Compendium of Exhibits, v. 1, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5; Ex. 23, Artiga  Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)              Perhaps the most compelling evidence  of pretext is the testimony of Martin Ramirez Salas.  Nicholas Moreno was informed of Artiga’s  alleged violation of Rule 6 on January 19, 2018.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 59.)  On that same date, Moreno contacted driver  Salas to relocate the rolling bin that Artiga had placed against the direction  of traffic in violation of Rule 6.   (Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 24, Salas Dec.,  ¶5.)  Later that same day, Moreno  contacted Salas and asked him to move the rolling bin back to the same position  Artiga had placed it previously.  (Id.  at ¶5.)              Plaintiff submits substantial  evidence that it was common practice for drivers to place the rolling bin in  exactly the position Plaintiff had, that both the client and management had  approved placement of the bin in that position despite it violating the rules  and that Moreno instructed Ramirez Salas to place the bin back into that exact  same position Plaintiff had placed it.  Based  on this evidence, Plaintiff establishes with substantial evidence that the  reason given for his termination—violation of Rule 6 by placing the rolling bin  with against the direction of traffic—was false or pretextual.              WMI argues vociferously that there  is no evidence that any comments were made that would indicate any  discriminatory animus.  However, as  discussed in Swanson and Serri, to rebut Defendant’s showing of a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff, Plaintiff was  only required to submit substantial evidence that the reason given was  pretextual or false.  Plaintiff was not  required to present evidence that WMI acted with a discriminatory animus,  although that was also an option.        Defendant WMI’s motion for summary  judgment on grounds that it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for  terminating Plaintiff is denied.        Triable issues of fact remain as to Plaintiff’s cause  of action for violation of Labor Code §1102.5Labor Code §§1102.5 and 1102.6            “An employer, or any person acting  on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for  disclosing information, or because the employer believes that the employee  disclosed or may disclose information,…to a person with authority over the  employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or  correct the violation or noncompliance…if the employee has reasonable cause to  believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute,  or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or  regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of the  employee's job duties.”  (Labor Code  §1102.5(b).)            “In a civil action or administrative  proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been demonstrated by  a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5  was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against the  employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear  and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for  legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in  activities protected by Section 1102.5.”   (Labor Code §1102.6.)            “Section 1102.6 provides the  governing framework for the presentation and evaluation of whistleblower  retaliation claims brought under section 1102.5. First, it places the burden on  the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation  for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested  employment action. The plaintiff need not satisfy McDonnell Douglas in  order to discharge this burden. Once the plaintiff has made the required  showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and  convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for  legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected  activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG  Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)            Section 1102.6 “explicitly imposes a  higher burden of production, clear and convincing,” on the employer to  establish that “it would have taken the action in question for legitimate,  independent reasons even had plaintiff not engaged in the protected activity.”  (Vataro v. County of Sacramento (2022)  79 Cal.App.5th 367, 379.)  “It is not  enough…that an employer shows it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for  the adverse employment action. Were that the standard, then an employer could  satisfy its burden simply by showing it had one legitimate reason for its  action, even if several illegitimate reasons principally motivated its  decision.  But that is not the applicable  standard here. Under section 1102.6, the employer must instead show ‘the  alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if  the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.’”  (Id.)            Under Labor Code §1102.6, an  employee need not show that the employer’s nonretaliatory reason for the  employment action was pretextual.  (Lawson,  supra, 12 Cal.5th at 715-716.)   “Even if the employer had a genuine, nonretaliatory reason for its  adverse action, the plaintiff still carries the burden assigned by [Labor Code  §1102.6] if it is shown that the employer also had at least one retaliatory  reason that was a contributing factor in the action.”  (Id.)             An employer satisfies its burden on  a defense summary judgment if it presents evidence that would “require a  reasonable factfinder to find it highly probable’” that the employment action  would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee  had not engaged in the protected conduct under Labor Code §1102.5.  (Vataro, supra, 79 Cal.App.5th  at 386 (employer satisfied its burden on summary judgment of Labor Code  §1102.5(b) claim with undisputed evidence that employee had been insubordinate,  disrespectful and dishonest, including employee’s own concession that she was  “difficult to work with, distant and unwilling to cooperate”)            USA Waste fails to negate  allegations of whistleblower conduct                  USA Waste argues Plaintiff’s  complaint regarding the number of hours that drivers were forced to work does  not rise to the level of whistleblower conduct.   USA Waste argues Plaintiff cannot establish that retaliation played a  role in his termination.            USA Waste fails to negate  Plaintiff’s allegations of whistleblowing.   Labor Code §1102.5 applies if the “employee has reasonable cause to  believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal  statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal  rule or regulation.”  (Labor Code  §1102.5(b).)  Plaintiff alleges that he  complained about safety violations, overworking employees, underpaying  employees, denying Plaintiff and others meal and rest breaks and forcing them  to work long hours, driving large trucks even when they were fatigued.  (FAC, ¶157.)   Plaintiff alleges that he reasonably believed these acts violated wage  and hour laws, including Labor Code 1198.3, et seq., 1194, et seq., 226.7, 201  and 202, 226 and 117, 6310, et seq, 6311, et seq.  (FAC, ¶157.)               As moving party, USA Waste fails to  satisfy its burden of presenting evidence that Plaintiff reasonably believed  these acts constituted a violation of state law.  USA Waste merely argues that complaints  regarding working too many hours is a purely internal personnel matter, not  disclosures of potential violations of law.   USA Waste oversimplifies the FAC’s allegations.  Plaintiff allegedly complained about more  than long hours. Plaintiff allegedly complained about safety issues, failures  to provide meal and rest breaks, underpayment and forcing drivers to drive  under dangerous conditions.              USA Waste’s reliance on Patten v.  Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378  is also misplaced.  In Patten, the  Court found that two of four disclosures by the plaintiff did not qualify as  whistleblowing under Labor Code §1102.5.   (Patten, supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at 1382 and  1385.)  Those disclosures involved  teachers who allegedly peered into the girls locker room and made off color  remarks.  However, in Patten, the  plaintiff admitted that those two disclosures were merely forwarded to human  resources for “personnel action.”  (Id.  at 1385.)  Based on these admissions,  plaintiff’s disclosures did not qualify as disclosures of legal violations but  reports of an internal personnel matter.   (Id.)            Here, Plaintiff alleges that he  reported what he reasonably believed to be violations of the law, not merely  internal personnel policy.  Unlike Patten,  there is no evidence undermining Plaintiff’s reasonable belief that safety  issues, failures to provide meal and rest breaks, underpayment and forcing  drivers to drive long hours under dangerous conditions were violations of the  law.              In addition, USA Waste argues  Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that he was terminated in retaliation for these  complaints.  However, USA Waste is the  moving party, not Plaintiff.  USA Waste  was required to establish as the party moving for summary judgment that it  would have terminated Plaintiff even absent the alleged whistleblowing.  As previously discussed, USA Waste  demonstrates that there was a legitimate reason for termination but nothing  more.  Even if this were sufficient under  Labor Code §1102.5, Plaintiff has submitted evidence raising a triable issue of  fact as to whether the stated reason for termination was false and whether  Plaintiff would have been terminated were it not for the alleged whistleblowing  conduct.  USA Waste fails to establish that Workers’  Compensation Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s IIED claimWorkers’ Compensation Exclusivity under Labor Code §3602            “Where the conditions of  compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to recover  compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and Sections  3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her  dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the  employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,  the employee's industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her  dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.”  (Labor Code §3602.)            Workers’ compensation is the  exclusive remedy for a claim based on conduct that occurred in the normal  course of the employer-employee relationship.   (Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th  876, 902.)  A claim for emotional  distress based on conduct in the workplace is not subject to Worker’s  Compensation Exclusivity under certain circumstances, such as when it is  outside the normal relationship or a violation of public policy.  (Smith v. International Brotherhood of  Electrical Workers (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1637, 1658.)  Garden variety termination of employment is  not outside the normality of an employment relationship without further facts  placing it outside the normal relationship.   (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 25.)            “A number of California authorities  have concluded claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress in the  employment context may be asserted where the actionable conduct also forms the  basis for a FEHA violation.”  (Light  v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 97.)  Thus, where the emotional distress results  from unlawful discrimination or other misconduct that “exceeds the normal part  of the employment relationship” exclusivity does not apply.  (Livitsanos v. Sup.Ct. (Continental  Culture Specialists, Inc.) (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 756 (emotional distress  resulting from employer's defamation and harassment); Nazir v. United  Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  Several cases have held that the exclusivity  of workers’ compensation law does not apply to emotional distress caused by  workplace discrimination.  (Cornell v.  Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 946 (plaintiff can pursue  IIED claim in employment context where conduct at issue violates FEHA, but  finding plaintiff failed to satisfy IIED elements); Light v. California  Dept. of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 101 (emotional  distress based on discrimination and retaliation alleged to violate FEHA); Fretland  v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492 (emotional distress  resulting from alleged work-related injury discrimination); Murray v.  Oceanside Unified School Dist. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1362 (abrogated  on other grounds by Hart v. National Mortg. & Land Co. (1987) 189  Cal.App.3d 1420)(emotional distress allegedly resulting from continuing pattern  of workplace harassment based on sexual orientation).)            Here, Plaintiff is alleging  emotional distress damages as a result of termination based on age  discrimination and whistleblower retaliation.   Plaintiff’s emotional distress is therefore not the result of a “garden  variety termination.”              USA Waste fails to establish that  Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by Labor Code §3602.Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendant  engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct in connection with Plaintiff’s IIED  claim            To state an IIED claim, the  plaintiff must allege facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress.   (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147  (plaintiff alleged outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive  statements made by defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and  3 of his supervisors); Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534  (affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to  amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct).)  Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a  question of fact but can be determined as an issue of law.  (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th  at 147.)              USA Waste argues it did not engage  in extreme and outrageous conduct, because it terminated Plaintiff for a  legitimate, nondiscriminatory, nonretaliatory reason.  However, as discussed above, triable issues  of fact remain as to whether USA Waste terminated Plaintiff because of his age  and whether USA Waste terminated Plaintiff for complaining about hour, wage,  safety and rest break violations.  As  such, USA Waste fails to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of outrageous  conduct.              Triable issues of fact remain as to  whether USA Waste engaged in the alleged outrageous conduct.            Workers’ Compensation  Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s negligent hiring claim            An employee’s claims for negligent  supervision, retention and hiring are barred by Workers’ Compensation  Exclusivity, even in cases where the employee alleges harassment.  (Coit Drapery Cleaners, Inc. v. Sequoia  Ins. Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.5th 1595, 1606.)  However, where the employer ratifies the  harassment, the employee may sue the employer for harassment directly and such  claim would not be barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.  (Id.)            USA Waste argues Plaintiff’s  negligent hiring claim is barred by Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity.  Plaintiff did not respond to this  argument.              No triable issues remain as to the  negligent hiring and supervision claim.   Defendant USA Waste’s motion for summary adjudication is granted as to  the 6th cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.            Triable issues of fact remain  as to punitive damages            “In the usual case, the question of  whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is  for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar  circumstances of each case.  But the  issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher  proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a  stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case  for punitive damages at summary judgment.   However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear  and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into  account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,  since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be  necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary  standard.  Summary judgment on the issue  of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the  plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or  oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson  v. Superior Court (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and  Electric Company v. Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150,  1158–1159.)  The party moving for  adjudication of a plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden  of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2);  Johnson & Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)            As the moving party seeking  adjudication of the punitive damages claim, the initial burden was on the USA  Waste to negate Plaintiff’s claims of malice, fraud and oppression.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &  Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)  Only if that burden was satisfied would the  burden shift to Plaintiff to produce clear and convincing evidence of malice,  fraud and oppression.  (Mosley v.  Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435  (landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their  tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment  where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher  v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot  grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first  determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)            USA Waste’s only argument is that  Plaintiff has not presented evidence of fraudulent or oppressive conduct and  that he relies entirely on unsubstantiated allegations of age discrimination  and retaliation.  However, as discussed  above, triable issues of fact remain as to whether USA Waste discriminated  against Plaintiff based on age or retaliated against him for complaining about  potential legal violations.  As such,  triable issues of fact remain as to whether USA Waste engaged in malicious  conduct under Civil Code §3294.              USA Waste’s motion for summary  adjudication of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is denied.              USA Waste fails to establish  that Plaintiff’s claims are preempted under Section 301 of the Labor Management  Relations Act            Section 301 of the LMRA states:  “Suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization  representing employees in an industry affecting commerce ... may be brought in  any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties.” 29  U.S.C. § 185(a).  “[F]ederal common law  preempts the use of state contract law in CBA interpretation and  enforcement.”  (Kobold v. Good  Samaritan Regional Medical Center (9th Cir. 2016) 832 F.3d 1024, 1032.)              Section 301 does not preempt state  law claims that do not require construing a collective bargaining  agreement.  (Lingle v. Norge Div. of  Magic Chef, Inc., 486 U.S. 399, 408 (1988).   “Preemption is appropriate… only when the provisions of a  collective-bargaining agreement must be interpreted.”  (Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc.  (9th Cir. 1993) 998 F.2d 743, 748.)              “Critically, not every dispute  concerning employment, or tangentially involving a provision of a  collective-bargaining agreement, is pre-empted by § 301.  Drawing on Supreme Court precedent, this  court has articulated a two-step inquiry to analyze § 301 preemption of state  law claims. First, a court must determine whether the asserted cause of action  involves a right conferred upon an employee by virtue of state law, not by a  CBA. If the right exists solely as a result of the CBA, then the claim is  preempted, and the analysis ends there…If the court determines that the right  underlying the plaintiff's state law claim(s) exists independently of the CBA,  it moves to the second step, asking whether the right is nevertheless  substantially dependent on analysis of a collective-bargaining agreement.”  (Kobold, supra, 832 F.3d at  1032.)              FEHA claims are not preempted by  Section 301.  “In every case in which we  have considered an action brought under the California Employment Act, we have  held that it is not preempted by section 301.”   (Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc. (1993) 998 F.2d  743,748.)  Antidiscrimination statutes,  like FEHA, are not preempted by section 301, because the right is defined and  enforced under state law without reference to the terms of any collective  bargaining agreement.  (Chmiel v.  Beverly Wilshire Hotel Co. (9th Cir. 1989) 873 F.2d 1283, 1286.)                USA Waste fails to establish that  resolution of Plaintiff’s claims requires interpretation of the CBA.  While Plaintiff was terminated pursuant to  Rule 6 and the CBA, there is no dispute as to the terms of the CBA or its interpretation.  Plaintiff admits that his conduct violated  Rule 6 but he maintains that other drivers were doing the same thing he was  fired for doing and they were all doing it at the behest of management.  Plaintiff’s claim is that he was terminated  due to his age and in retaliation for his complaints regarding working  conditions.  Resolution of such claims  may “reference” the CBA to determine the terms and conditions of employment,  but Plaintiff’s underlying claim is that his employers discriminated and  retaliated against him in applying or altering those terms and conditions.  (Ramirez, supra, 998 F.2d at  748-749 (Section 301 did not preempt plaintiff’s FEHA claims of national origin  discrimination, because the claims did not require interpretation of the CBA  and were based on discrimination in application of the terms of employment,  which included the CBA.)  USA Waste fails  to establish that Plaintiff’s remaining claims are preempted by Section  301.              USA Waste’s motion for summary  judgment based on Section 301 preemption is denied.  Conclusion            USA  Waste’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.   Triable issues of fact remain as whether Plaintiff was terminated as a  result of age discrimination and/or in retaliation for complaining about  working conditions that he reasonably believed were legal violations.  USA Waste fails to establish that Plaintiff’s  claims are barred by Section 301 of the LMRA or that IIED is barred by worker’s  compensation exclusivity.  For these  reasons, USA Waste also fails to establish as an issue of law that it did not  engage in malicious conduct through its managing agents for purposes of Civil  Code §3294.            USA Waste’s Motion for Summary  Adjudication is GRANTED as to the Negligent Hiring and Supervision claim and  DENIED as to all other issues and causes of action.  Plaintiff’s negligent hiring and supervision  claim is barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.              It is  so ordered.  Dated: March 13, 2024 _______________________Rolf M. TreuJudge of the  Superior CourtSuperior Court of
CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles 


 
JOEL
  ARTIGA,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
WASTE
  MANAGEMENT, ET AL.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  19STCV46508
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  December 23, 2019
FAC
  Filed:   May 26, 2020
Trial
  Date:  January 13, 2025


 Hearing
date:              March
13, 2024Moving
Party:             Defendant
Waste Management, Inc. Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Joel ArtigaMotion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.            The
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 6th
cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.  The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED
as to all other remaining causes of action and issues, including punitive
damages.  Background            Plaintiff
worked for Defendants in the LA Dumpster Rental location for over 20
years.  Plaintiff was suspended in
January 2018 for failing to properly position a dumpster container at a
construction site, despite the fact that every single driver who worked for
Defendants positioned the dumpster container in the exact same way.  Plaintiff alleges supervisors also directed
and permitted drivers to position the dumpster in this way.  After his supervisor, Defendant Nicholas
Moreno, staged the container in the same position in violation of company
policy, he informed Plaintiff’s direct supervisor and unjustly placed blame on
Plaintiff.  As a result, Defendants
discriminated, harassed and retaliated against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was ultimately terminated.              Plaintiff
alleges he was discriminated against and terminated due to his age, which was
52 years at the time of the relevant events. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants stated multiple times that they wanted to
replace older employees like Plaintiff with younger, cheaper employees.              On
December 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Waste
Management, Waste Management of California Inc. (“WMCI”), USA Waste Management
of California (“USA Waste”), A Waste Management Company and Nicholas
Moreno.  On May 26, 2020, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint against these same Defendants alleging
(1) age discrimination; (2) harassment based on age; (3) failure to prevent
harassment and discrimination; (4) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy; (5) violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (6) negligent hiring and
supervision; and (7) IIED.              On
March 17, 2022, Defendant Waste Management, Inc. (erroneously sued as Waste
Management)(“WMI”) filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication.  On November
18 and 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed opposition documents to WMI’s MSJ.  On November 23, 2022, WMI filed a reply.  The opposition and reply briefs filed in
November 2022 were superseded by Plaintiff’s opposition brief filed on November
7, 2023 and WMI’s reply brief filed on November 16, 2023.   Legal
Standard            Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to
conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Company
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary
adjudication of one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses,
the issue of punitive damages or the issue of duty.  (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(f)(1).) “A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an issue of
duty.”  (Id.)            Where
a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either
“one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.”  (Code of Civil Procedure
§437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy
this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the
lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Id.)              “A
party is entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of
showing there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has
carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's
evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion
does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the
opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific
Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s
failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana
growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party
failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant
summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine
if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read.  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All
doubts as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue
of material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor
of the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)Request
for Judicial NoticePlaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 2-3, 13, 21, 22 and 35 is
GRANTED.  These are documents filed with
government agencies.  The fact that the
documents were filed on their respective dates with these agencies is
judicially noticed.  However, the truth
of the contents of those documents is not judicially noticed.Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of his Exhibits 4, 5, 14 and 16 is DENIED.  These documents do not fall within the
category of judicially noticeable documents under Evidence Code §§452 and 453.  However, Exhibits 4 and 5 are admissible
evidence as statements of admission.Evidentiary
Objections WMI’s Objection
Nos. 1-5, 7 to Gallagher Declaration are OVERRULED.  The Court declines to rule on Objection Nos.
6 and 8 pursuant to CCP §437c(q) as immaterial to the ruling.WMI’s Objections
to the Gomez Declaration are OVERRULED.  WMI’s Objections
to the Ramirez Declaration are OVERRULED.WMI’s Objections
to the Artiga Declaration are OVERRULED. 
Discussion            Parties’ Positions            WMI’s MSJ filed on March 17, 2022            WMI
moves for summary judgment on grounds that it never employed Plaintiff.  WMI argues Plaintiff’s causes of action are
all premised on WMI’s status as Plaintiff’s employer.  WMI argues that under the common law test to
determine employment relationship, WMI was never Plaintiff’s employer, because
it never exercised any control over Plaintiff’s employment.  WMI argues Plaintiff admitted he never heard
of WMI and his only supervisor was Carmen Muno, who was likewise never employed
by z, nor was Jose Bravo, the district manager, or Nicholas Moreno.  WMI argues Plaintiff’s earnings statements
and W-2 forms do not list WMI as the employer. 
            WMI
is also not the alter ego of any of its subsidiaries.  WMI argues Plaintiff denied that WMI ever
engaged in conduct that would support a finding of a unity of interest, e.g.
commingling of assets, failure to observe corporate formalities and failure to
maintain corporate records or minutes. 
WMI argues there would be no inequitable result if the separate
existence of WMI from its subsidiaries were recognized.              WMI
argues in the alternative that, even if there were a triable issue of fact as
to its employer status, Plaintiff’s substantive claims fail.  WMI argues Plaintiff’s claims are all
preempted by Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act (“LMRA”).  WMI argues resolution of Plaintiff’s claims
requires the Court to interpret the Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”)
between Plaintiff’s union and Plaintiff’s employer.  WMI argues the CBA governed the terms and
conditions of Plaintiff’s employment, including the procedure and grounds for
termination and discipline.  WMI argues
Plaintiff’s complaint challenges the legitimacy of WMI’s interpretation and
application of the CBA to terminate and discipline Plaintiff.  WMI argues the Supreme Court has held that
Section 301 preempts state law claims under these circumstances.              WMI
argues Plaintiff also cannot satisfy his burden to establish that his
termination was based on his age.  WMI
argues Plaintiff has provided no evidence that his age had anything to do with
his termination.  WMI argues Plaintiff
admits that the basis for his termination was his violation of Life Critical
Rule No. 6.  WMI argues if Plaintiff
claims this reason for his termination was pretextual, Plaintiff will be unable
to provide evidence corroborating his claim of pretext.  WMI argues the only comment identified by
Plaintiff as being evidence of pretext did not make any reference to his age
and was a single, isolated comment.             WMI
argues Plaintiff’s Labor Code §1102.5 claim fails, because Plaintiff never
engaged in any whistleblower conduct. 
WMI argues Plaintiff’s complaints about the long hours were not
disclosures of potential violations of law but purely internal personnel
matters.  WMI argues Plaintiff also
cannot establish that any of his alleged complaints or statements were the
basis for his termination.  WMI argues
the evidence establishes that Plaintiff was legitimately terminated for violating
a rule that was grounds for immediate termination.  WMI argues Plaintiff also made his complaints
about hours to Carmen Munoz, who was not the decisionmaker who terminated
Plaintiff.              WMI
argues Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by worker’s compensation
exclusivity.  WMI argues Plaintiff’s
allegations also do not qualify as extreme or outrageous conduct. WMI argues
Plaintiff’s allegations only establish that WMI engaged in ordinary managerial
conduct.              WMI
argues Plaintiff’s negligent hiring, supervision and retention claim fails as
an issue of law because it is barred by worker’s compensation exclusivity.  WMI argues the negligence claim also fails,
because Plaintiff concedes that he never complained about Bravo or Moreno
during his employment.  WMI argues it
never had notice of any unfitness of its alleged employees, an essential
element of the negligent hiring, et al. claim.            WMI
argues Plaintiff’s claims for failure to prevent harassment and discrimination
and wrongful termination fail, because there was no underlying harassment,
discrimination or wrongful termination.  WMI
argues Plaintiff will be unable to establish that his termination for failing
to properly position the roll-off box was pretextual.            Finally,
WMI argues Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails.  WMI argues Plaintiff has not alleged,
attested to or otherwise shown that WMI engaged in fraud, oppression or
malice.  WMI argues Plaintiff also cannot
demonstrate that an officer, director or managing agent of Defendant had
advance knowledge of the alleged wrongful acts or approved or ratified such
conduct.            Plaintiff’s
Opposition filed on November 7, 2023            Plaintiff
argues WMI is a joint employer and/or alter ego of USA Waste Management of
California and Waste Management, Inc.  Plaintiff
argues WMI shares officers and directors with these entities.               Plaintiff
argues WMI fails to establish that the FEHA claims are barred and preempted by
Section 301 of the Labor Management Relation Act.  Plaintiff argues the mere fact that the CBA
might provide a remedy or a duty related to a situation is insufficient to
establish preemption.  Plaintiff argues the
Ninth Circuit has established that antidiscrimination statutes are not
preempted by Section 301, because the right at issue is defined and enforced
under state law.  Plaintiff argues
determining whether Defendants' reasons for termination were pretextual does
not require interpretation of the CBA and only involves a factual
question.              Plaintiff
argues the reason given for his termination was pretextual.  Plaintiff argues the roll-out bin was placed
facing traffic for months by Plaintiff and other employees and that they did so
per the instruction and approval of supervisors and the client.  Plaintiff argues management knew this was the
reason why the roll-out bin was placed where it was, opposing traffic.  Plaintiff’s supervisor, Carmen Munoz, bullied
other employees to sign statements regarding the roll out bin and stated to him
that she wanted to get rid of personnel. 
Plaintiff argues this is sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact as
to whether Defendants’ reason for terminating him was a pretext for age
discrimination.              Plaintiff
argues Defendants fail to negate any element of his Labor Code §1102.5 claim.
Plaintiff argues he complained about the number of hours he was working and
there is no evidence that he did not believe that he was complaining about
something illegal.  Plaintiff argues
Defendants have not proven by clear and convincing evidence that Plaintiff
would have been terminated even if he had not made the complaint.              Plaintiff
argues the IIED claim survives because it is based on FEHA violations.
Plaintiff argues he has suffered from extreme emotional distress as a result of
Defendants’ wrongful termination and discrimination against him.              Plaintiff
argues he is entitled to punitive damages based on FEHA violations.  Plaintiff argues Defendants have not negated
his allegations of discrimination and therefore, grounds for punitive damages.            Plaintiff
argues his claims are not barred by workers’ compensation exclusivity.
Plaintiff argues Defendants have not demonstrated that the action alleged are
within the normal scope of work, given that they qualify as FEHA
violations.  Plaintiff argues he has
suffered emotional distress due to Defendants’ termination of him based on his
age.            WMI’s
Reply filed on November 16, 2023             WMI argues there is no dispute that it was not
Plaintiff’s employer based on the undisputed, admissible evidence.  WMI argues Plaintiff was only ever employed
by USA Waste and there is no evidence that WMI exercised control over Plaintiff
or permitted him to work.  WMI argues it
was USA Waste alone that exercised control over Plaintiff’s hours, wages,
working conditions, terms of employment, including the decision to hire,
discipline and fire him.  WMI argues USA
Waste’s name was also the only name on Plaintiff’s paychecks.              WMI
argues the mere fact that it shared officers and directors with USA Waste and
WMCI, reported assets of both subsidiaries on its annual 10K report to the SEC,
and reported labor costs and benefits as an expense in its 10K is not enough to
establish an employer-employee relationship with Plaintiff.  WMI argues that a parent can only be deemed
an employer of a subsidiary’s employees if it exercised control over day-to-day
employment decisions of its subsidiary, i.e. more than the control normally
exercised by a parent over a subsidiary. 
WMI argues there is no evidence that it ever exercised such control or
that it in any occupied the role or duties of an employer.            WMI
argues the undisputed facts and evidence also establish there is no genuine
dispute as to alter ego.  WMI argues
there is a presumption against alter ego and the factors listed by Plaintiff
are insufficient to establish the doctrine. 
WMI argues Plaintiff also fails to identify any basis to find that there
will be an inequitable result if WMI’s separate corporate existence is
recognized.              WMI
argues that even if there were a dispute as to its employer status, there is no
genuine dispute as to the basis for Plaintiff’s termination, which was his
violation of Life Critical Rule 6.  WMI
argues Plaintiff does not deny that he violated Rule 6.  WMI argues Plaintiff fails to present any
evidence from which a trier of fact could infer that this was a pretext for age
discrimination.  WMI argues the violation
did not require progressive discipline under the CBA, nor does Plaintiff
present any evidence or argument that the persons who made the decision to
terminate him, Dory and Kato, had any discriminatory animus.              WMI
argues the claims will also require the Court to interpret the CBA.  WMI argues the claims are therefore preempted
by Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act.              WMI
argues the IIED claim is also subject to workers’ compensation
exclusivity.  WMI argues the IIED claim
is based on conduct that occurred at the worksite in the normal course of the
employer-employee relationship, i.e. the decision to terminate Plaintiff.              WMI
argues the punitive damages claim likewise fails.  WMI argues the evidence establishes that it
took no actions that could justify punitive damages.  WMI argues it did not even participate in the
decision to terminate Plaintiff, nor did it hire him or in any way participate
in any investigation or termination of his employment.              Triable
issues of fact exist as to whether WMI was Plaintiff’s employer            Test
to determine “Employer”             Pursuant
to Government Code §12926, an “employer” for purposes of FEHA “includes any
person regularly employing five or more persons, or any person acting as an
agent of an employer, directly or indirectly…” (Gov. C. §12926.)  “[A] business-entity agent of an employer can
fall within the FEHA's definition of employer, and it may be directly liable
for FEHA violations, in appropriate situations. Although the question presented
in this case does not require that we go further and attempt to identify the
specific scenarios in which a business-entity agent will be subject to
liability under the FEHA, we recognize as a necessary minimum that, consistent
with the FEHA's language and purpose, a business-entity agent can bear direct
FEHA liability only when it carries out FEHA-regulated activities on behalf of
an employer.”  (Raines v. U.S.
Healthworks Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 288.)              “An
employee who seeks to hold a parent corporation liable for the acts or
omissions of its subsidiary on the theory that the two corporate entities
constitute a single employer has a heavy burden to meet under both California
and federal law. Corporate entities are presumed to have separate existences,
and the corporate form will be disregarded only when the ends of justice
require this result. In particular, there is a strong presumption that a parent
company is not the employer of its subsidiary's employees.”  (Laird v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 727, 738.)              Under
the “integrated enterprise test,” four factors are examined: interrelation of
operations, common management, centralized control of labor relations and
common ownership or financial control.  (Id.
at 737.)  “Under this test, common
ownership or control alone is never enough to establish parent liability.  Although courts consider the four factors
together, they often deem centralized control of labor relations the most
important. The critical question is, what entity made the final decisions
regarding employment matters related to the person claiming discrimination?  A parent's broad general policy statements
regarding employment matters are not enough to satisfy this prong.  To satisfy the control prong, a parent must
control the day-to-day employment decisions of the subsidiary.”  (Id. at 738.)              “To
make a sufficient showing of ‘interrelation of operations’ on summary judgment,
the plaintiff must do more than merely show that officers of the subsidiary
report to the parent corporation or that the parent benefits from the
subsidiary's work. Since these facts exist in every parent-subsidiary
situation, such a showing would create a triable issue of material fact in
every case. What the plaintiff must show, rather, is that the parent has
exercised control to a degree that exceeds the control normally exercised by a
parent corporation.”  (Id. at
738.)              WMI
negates the allegation that it was Plaintiff’s employer            WMI
establishes that Waste Management California, Inc. and USA Waste of California,
Inc. are its subsidiaries.  (Defendant’s
SSUMF No. 11, Defendant’s Compendium of Evidence (“COE”), Tippy Dec., ¶4.)  WMI does not have any employees.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 19, Defendant’s COE,
Tippy Dec., ¶2.  WMI therefore does not
employ Plaintiff.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No.
20.)  Plaintiff was only employed by USA
Waste of California, Inc.  (Id. at
22; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec., ¶3.) 
Plaintiff’s only supervisor he could recall, Carmen Munoz, was only
employed by USA Waste, not WMI.  (Id.
at 24.)  Nicholas Moreno, another
supervising employee identified by Plaintiff in the FAC, was never employed by
WMI and was only ever employed by USA Waste. 
(Id. at 26; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec. ¶6.)  WMI never issued a paycheck to Plaintiff and
any earnings statements, paychecks and W-2s were issued by USA Waste.  (Id. at 27-30; Defendant’s COE, Burns
Dec. ¶¶7-8.)  Plaintiff’s unemployment
claim only named USA Waste.  (Id. at
31; Defendant’s COE, Burns Dec., ¶9.)              WMI
also establishes that it adhered to corporate formalities.  WMI maintains its own records and minutes as
required under the laws of Texas, its state of incorporation.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 9, Defendant’s COE,
Tippy Dec., ¶5.)  It has its own
corporate officers and directors and its subsidiaries have their own officers
and directors.  (Defendant’s SSUMF Nos.
11-12, Defendant’s COE, Tippy Dec., ¶6.) 
WMI is sufficiently capitalized and all transactions between it and its
subsidiaries are at arm’s length with full adherence to the formalities of such
transactions.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 13,
Defendant’s COE, Tippy Dec., ¶7.)  WMI
and its subsidiaries are all sufficiently capitalized to meet their obligations
and discharge any liabilities. 
(Defendant’s SSUMF No. 14, Defendant’s COE, Tippy Dec., ¶7.)  WMI is a publicly traded company and its SEC
filings reflect that it is the parent company to subsidiaries that include USA
Waste and WMCI (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 17, Defendant’s COE, Tippy Dec.,
¶8.)              Based
on these facts, WMI was not Plaintiff’s employer.  WMI did not hire Plaintiff, did not pay
Plaintiff, did not oversee Plaintiff, nor did its employees.  WMI’s only relationship to Plaintiff is as
the parent company of Plaintiff’s employer, who was ostensibly USA Waste.  The evidence establishes that WMI did not
exercise control over USA Waste or WMCI beyond that normally exercised by a
parent over its subsidiary.              The
persons identified by Plaintiff as making the day-to-day decisions regarding
his employment were also employed by USA Waste, not WMI.  Plaintiff only identifies Carmen Moreno, Joey
Bravo and Nicholas Moreno as the persons who oversaw him and were involved in
the decision to terminate.  These
individuals were never employees of WMI. 
(Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 24-26.)              Plaintiff
raises a triable issue of fact as to whether WMI was his employer            Plaintiff
raises a triable issue of fact as to whether he was employed by WMI.  Plaintiff submits the job application as
evidence that he applied for work with WMI and that WMI hired him.  The application is titled “WASTE MANAGEMENT
INC., AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER, APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT.”  (Gallagher Dec., v. 1, ¶15, Ex. 17, USAWASTE000102.)  The application also states that the
application must be completed to be considered “for employment with Waste
Management, Inc. or any or its subsidiaries and divisions.”  (Id.) 
The application references Waste Management Inc. throughout and states
that WMI and its divisions and subsidiaries do not discriminate, in accordance
with applicable laws.  (Id.)  The application also indicates that it is for
consideration of the applicant’s employment “by Waste Management, Inc.
or ________________________, a company affiliated with Waste Management,
Inc.”  (Id. at USAWASTE000103.)  There is no alternative employer listed to
Waste Management, Inc.  “Waste
Management” is also defined to mean “Waste Management, Inc. and all of its
divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates, including the above named
employer.”  (Id.)  The only named employer on the job
application is “Waste Management, Inc.”            In addition, Plaintiff testified at
deposition that he worked for “Waste Management Incorporation.”  (Gallagher Dec., v. 1, Ex. 14, 29:19-24.)  WMI’s SSUMF No. 23 that “Plaintiff does not even
know who WMI is” relies on out of context deposition testimony and ignores
Plaintiff’s clear testimony that he worked for WMI.  (WMI’s COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 30:3-9.)              Plaintiff also calls into question
Tippy’s testimony that WMI has no employees. 
Obviously, Tippy is herself an employee officer of WMI.  (Defendant’s COE, Tippy Dec., ¶1.  Moreover, there are several officers listed
in the Texas Franchise Tax Public Information Report filed by WMI for
2019.  (Gallagher Dec., v. 1, Ex. 13.)  WMI also ambiguously stated in its 2021 10-K
that “we employed approximately 48,500 people as of December 31,
2021.”  (Gallagher Dec., v. 1, Ex. 5,
004.)              Based on the application and
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, Plaintiff raises triable issues of fact as to
(1) whether WMI truly has no employees; (2) whether Plaintiff applied to WMI
and was hired by WMI; and (3) whether WMI was acting as an agent of USA Waste
in hiring Plaintiff.  Under Gov. C.
§12926(d), employer includes any person acting as an agent of an employer,
directly or indirectly.  Plaintiff’s
evidence must be construed liberally while WMI’s must be construed strictly on
summary judgment.  (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All doubts as to the propriety of granting
the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil
Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion
(i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)            Triable issues of fact remain as to
whether Plaintiff was employed, at least jointly, by WMI.  The motion for summary judgment based on lack
of an employment relationship is denied. 
Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendants
terminated Plaintiff for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasonMcDonnell
Douglas Test and burdens on summary judgment of FEHA discrimination claims            “It
is an unlawful employment practice…for an employer, because of the…age…of any
person…to discharge the person from employment or from a training program
leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  Govt. C. §12940(a).              An employment discrimination case
can be proven with direct or circumstantial evidence.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 356.)  “[D]irect evidence
of intentional discrimination is rare, and that such claims must usually be
proved circumstantially.”  (Id. at
354.)              In response to this reality, the
courts apply a burden shifting test to circumstantial evidence cases of
discrimination known as the “McDonnell Douglas” test, first articulated in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792. 
(Id.)  However, in the rare
case where a plaintiff possesses direct evidence of discrimination, the
burden-shifting analysis under the McDonnell Douglas test and discussed
in Guz does not apply.”  (DeJung v.
Supr. Ct. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 533, 550 (direct evidence of discrimination
presented where presiding judge informed 65-year old applicant for full-time
commissioner position that hiring committee indicated they wanted to hire a
candidate who was “younger,” “maybe in their mid-40s”).)              “At trial, the McDonnell Douglas
test places on the plaintiff the initial burden to establish a prima facie case
of discrimination…Generally, the plaintiff must provide evidence that (1) he
was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he
sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered
an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.  If, at trial, the plaintiff
establishes a prima facie case, a presumption of discrimination arises.  This presumption, though rebuttable, is
legally mandatory.”  (Guz v. Bechtel
Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354–56.) 
            The burden then “shifts to the
employer to rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence, sufficient
to raise a genuine issue of fact and to justify a judgment for the employer,
that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  If the employer sustains this burden, the
presumption of discrimination disappears” 
(Id.)              Where a defendant employer moves for
summary judgment, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no
unlawful discrimination occurred.  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat’l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355; see Jones v. R.J.
Donovan Correctional Facility (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1379.  “The burdens and order of proof therefore
shift under the McDonnell Douglas test when an employer defendant seeks
summary judgment.  An employer defendant
may meet its initial burden on summary judgment, and require the employee
plaintiff to present evidence establishing a triable issue of material fact, by
presenting evidence that either negates an element of the employee's prima
facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for taking the
adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966.)            “To avoid summary judgment on the
second of these two grounds [legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for adverse
action], an employee claiming discrimination must offer substantial evidence
that the employer's stated nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse action was
untrue or pretextual, or evidence the employer acted with a discriminatory
animus, or a combination of the two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could
conclude the employer engaged in intentional discrimination.”  (Id.)            “The plaintiff must then have the
opportunity to attack the employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for
discrimination, or to offer any other evidence of discriminatory motive.  In an appropriate case, evidence of dishonest
reasons, considered together with the elements of the prima facie case, may
permit a finding of prohibited bias.  The
ultimate burden of persuasion on the issue of actual discrimination remains
with the plaintiff.”  (Guz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 354-355.)            “[T]he employee must produce
substantial responsive evidence that the employer’s showing was untrue or
pretextual thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  (Hersant v. Ca. Dept. of Social Services
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005.) 
The employee “must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,
inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered
legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally
find them unworthy of credence and hence infer that the employer did not act
for the asserted non-discriminatory reasons.” 
(Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield Western, Inc. (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 798, 807.)            Defendant WMI presents a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff’s employment             WMI submits evidence that Plaintiff
was bound by the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement and that pursuant to the CBA, Plaintiff was subject to “Life
Critical Rules.”  (Defendant’s SSUMF No.
48, Defendant’s COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex. 5.) 
WMI submits evidence that Plaintiff violated Life Critical Rule 6, which
prohibits an operator from operating vehicles against traffic and requires the
drivers to never zigzag.  (Defendant’s
SSUMF Nos. 49-55, 62, Defendant’s COE, Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 72:17-22, Ex. 13.)  Plaintiff stated at deposition that he placed
the roll off bin in a position that violated Defendant’s official rules.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 63, Defendant’s COE,
Ex. E, Pl. Depo., 74:16-75:1.)  Plaintiff
also maintained that drivers were told that if the job could be done in a safe
manner despite violating the rule, and Defendants agreed to it, the job could
be done that way.  (Id.)            Defendant WMI has therefore
presented evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating
Plaintiff’s employment.  The burden
therefore shifts to the Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact.            Plaintiff submits substantial
evidence that the legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason given for his
termination was untrue or pretextual            In order to defeat Defendant’s
showing of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff,
Plaintiff must submit substantial evidence that (1) WMI’s stated
nondiscriminatory reason for terminating him was untrue or pretextual, or (2) evidence
WMI acted with a discriminatory animus, or (3) a combination of the two, such
that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the employer engaged in
intentional discrimination.  (Swanson,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 966.)  “It
is not sufficient for an employee to make a bare prima facie showing or to
simply deny the credibility of the employer's witnesses or to speculate as to
discriminatory motive.  Rather it is
incumbent upon the employee to produce substantial responsive evidence
demonstrating the existence of a material triable controversy as to pretext or
discriminatory animus on the part of the employer.” (Serri v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 862.)     Plaintiff
submits substantial evidence that the reason given for terminating him was
pretextual or false.  Plaintiff submits
evidence that drivers were instructed to place roll-off bins in the way
requested by the client and if a client requested placement in a way that was
different from that required under Waste Management rules, drivers were told to
get permission from a supervisor or dispatch. 
(Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5;
Ex. 23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)  Plaintiff submits substantial evidence that
the placement of the subject roll-off bin facing opposite the direction of
traffic at the location was common practice with the drivers and was with the
approval of supervisors and the client. 
(Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5; Ex.
23, Artiga Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)              Plaintiff also submits evidence that
the client had requested the bin to be placed against the flow of traffic.  Plaintiff relies on the “Corrective Action
Report” submitted by Defendant in support of its MSJ and the testimony of
Gomez, Artiga and Salas.  (Defendant’s
Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. E, Pl. Depo, Ex. 13, USAWASTE000297; Gallagher Dec.
with Compendium of Exhibits, v. 1, Ex. 12, Gomez Dec., ¶¶4-5; Ex. 23, Artiga
Dec., ¶¶6-7; Ex. 24, Salas Dec., ¶5.)              Perhaps the most compelling evidence
of pretext is the testimony of Martin Ramirez Salas.  Nicholas Moreno was informed of Artiga’s
alleged violation of Rule 6 on January 19, 2018.  (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 59.)  On that same date, Moreno contacted driver
Salas to relocate the rolling bin that Artiga had placed against the direction
of traffic in violation of Rule 6. 
(Gallagher Dec. with Compendium of Exhibits, Ex. 24, Salas Dec.,
¶5.)  Later that same day, Moreno
contacted Salas and asked him to move the rolling bin back to the same position
Artiga had placed it previously.  (Id.
at ¶5.)              Plaintiff submits substantial
evidence that it was common practice for drivers to place the rolling bin in
exactly the position Plaintiff had, that both the client and management had
approved placement of the bin in that position despite it violating the rules
and that Moreno instructed Ramirez Salas to place the bin back into that exact
same position Plaintiff had placed it.  Based
on this evidence, Plaintiff establishes with substantial evidence that the
reason given for his termination—violation of Rule 6 by placing the rolling bin
with against the direction of traffic—was false or pretextual.              WMI argues vociferously that there
is no evidence that any comments were made that would indicate any
discriminatory animus.  However, as
discussed in Swanson and Serri, to rebut Defendant’s showing of a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff, Plaintiff was
only required to submit substantial evidence that the reason given was
pretextual or false.  Plaintiff was not
required to present evidence that WMI acted with a discriminatory animus,
although that was also an option.        Defendant WMI’s motion for summary
judgment on grounds that it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for
terminating Plaintiff is denied.        Triable issues of fact remain as to Plaintiff’s cause
of action for violation of Labor Code §1102.5Labor Code §§1102.5 and 1102.6            “An employer, or any person acting
on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information, or because the employer believes that the employee
disclosed or may disclose information,…to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance…if the employee has reasonable cause to
believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute,
or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of the
employee's job duties.”  (Labor Code
§1102.5(b).)            “In a civil action or administrative
proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been demonstrated by
a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5
was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against the
employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear
and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for
legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in
activities protected by Section 1102.5.” 
(Labor Code §1102.6.)            “Section 1102.6 provides the
governing framework for the presentation and evaluation of whistleblower
retaliation claims brought under section 1102.5. First, it places the burden on
the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation
for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action. The plaintiff need not satisfy McDonnell Douglas in
order to discharge this burden. Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG
Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)            Section 1102.6 “explicitly imposes a
higher burden of production, clear and convincing,” on the employer to
establish that “it would have taken the action in question for legitimate,
independent reasons even had plaintiff not engaged in the protected activity.”  (Vataro v. County of Sacramento (2022)
79 Cal.App.5th 367, 379.)  “It is not
enough…that an employer shows it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for
the adverse employment action. Were that the standard, then an employer could
satisfy its burden simply by showing it had one legitimate reason for its
action, even if several illegitimate reasons principally motivated its
decision.  But that is not the applicable
standard here. Under section 1102.6, the employer must instead show ‘the
alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if
the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.’”  (Id.)            Under Labor Code §1102.6, an
employee need not show that the employer’s nonretaliatory reason for the
employment action was pretextual.  (Lawson,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 715-716.) 
“Even if the employer had a genuine, nonretaliatory reason for its
adverse action, the plaintiff still carries the burden assigned by [Labor Code
§1102.6] if it is shown that the employer also had at least one retaliatory
reason that was a contributing factor in the action.”  (Id.)             An employer satisfies its burden on
a defense summary judgment if it presents evidence that would “require a
reasonable factfinder to find it highly probable’” that the employment action
would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee
had not engaged in the protected conduct under Labor Code §1102.5.  (Vataro, supra, 79 Cal.App.5th
at 386 (employer satisfied its burden on summary judgment of Labor Code
§1102.5(b) claim with undisputed evidence that employee had been insubordinate,
disrespectful and dishonest, including employee’s own concession that she was
“difficult to work with, distant and unwilling to cooperate”)            WMI fails to negate allegations
of whistleblower conduct                WMI argues Plaintiff’s complaint
regarding the number of hours that drivers were forced to work does not rise to
the level of whistleblower conduct.  WMI
argues Plaintiff cannot establish that retaliation played a role in his
termination.            WMI fails to negate Plaintiff’s
allegations of whistleblowing.  Labor
Code §1102.5 applies if the “employee has reasonable cause to believe
that the information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a
violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation.”  (Labor Code
§1102.5(b).)  Plaintiff alleges that he
complained about safety violations, overworking employees, underpaying
employees, denying Plaintiff and others meal and rest breaks and forcing them
to work long hours, driving large trucks even when they were fatigued.  (FAC, ¶157.) 
Plaintiff alleges that he reasonably believed these acts violated wage
and hour laws, including Labor Code 1198.3, et seq., 1194, et seq., 226.7, 201
and 202, 226 and 117, 6310, et seq, 6311, et seq.  (FAC, ¶157.) 
            As moving party, WMI fails to
satisfy its burden of presenting evidence that Plaintiff reasonably believed
these acts constituted a violation of state law.  WMI merely argues that complaints regarding
working too many hours is a purely internal personnel matter, not disclosures
of potential violations of law.  WMI
oversimplifies the FAC’s allegations. 
Plaintiff allegedly complained about more than long hours. Plaintiff
allegedly complained about safety issues, failures to provide meal and rest
breaks, underpayment and forcing drivers to drive under dangerous
conditions.              WMI’s reliance on Patten v. Grant
Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378 is
also misplaced.  In Patten, the
Court found that two of four disclosures by the plaintiff did not qualify as
whistleblowing under Labor Code §1102.5. 
(Patten, supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at 1382 and
1385.)  Those disclosures involved
teachers who allegedly peered into the girls locker room and made off color
remarks.  However, in Patten, the
plaintiff admitted that those two disclosures were merely forwarded to human
resources for “personnel action.”  (Id.
at 1385.)  Based on these admissions,
plaintiff’s disclosures did not qualify as disclosures of legal violations but
reports of an internal personnel matter. 
(Id.)            Here, Plaintiff alleges that he
reported what he reasonably believed to be violations of the law, not merely
internal personnel policy.  Unlike Patten,
there is no evidence undermining Plaintiff’s reasonable belief that safety
issues, failures to provide meal and rest breaks, underpayment and forcing
drivers to drive long hours under dangerous conditions were violations of the
law.              In addition, WMI argues Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate that he was terminated in retaliation for these
complaints.  However, WMI is the moving
party, not Plaintiff.  WMI was required
to establish as the party moving for summary judgment that it would have
terminated Plaintiff even absent the alleged whistleblowing.  As previously discussed, WMI demonstrates
that there was a legitimate reason for termination but nothing more.  Even if this were sufficient under Labor Code
§1102.5, Plaintiff has submitted evidence raising a triable issue of fact as to
whether the stated reason for termination was false and whether Plaintiff would
have been terminated were it not for the alleged whistleblowing conduct.  WMI fails to establish that Workers’ Compensation
Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s IIED claimWorkers’ Compensation Exclusivity under Labor Code §3602            “Where the conditions of
compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to recover
compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and Sections
3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her
dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the
employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,
the employee's industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her
dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.”  (Labor Code §3602.)            Workers’ compensation is the
exclusive remedy for a claim based on conduct that occurred in the normal
course of the employer-employee relationship. 
(Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th
876, 902.)  A claim for emotional
distress based on conduct in the workplace is not subject to Worker’s
Compensation Exclusivity under certain circumstances, such as when it is
outside the normal relationship or a violation of public policy.  (Smith v. International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1637, 1658.)  Garden variety termination of employment is
not outside the normality of an employment relationship without further facts
placing it outside the normal relationship. 
(Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 25.)            “A number of California authorities
have concluded claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress in the
employment context may be asserted where the actionable conduct also forms the
basis for a FEHA violation.”  (Light
v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 97.)  Thus, where the emotional distress results
from unlawful discrimination or other misconduct that “exceeds the normal part
of the employment relationship” exclusivity does not apply.  (Livitsanos v. Sup.Ct. (Continental
Culture Specialists, Inc.) (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744, 756 (emotional distress
resulting from employer's defamation and harassment); Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  Several cases have held that the exclusivity
of workers’ compensation law does not apply to emotional distress caused by
workplace discrimination.  (Cornell v.
Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 946 (plaintiff can pursue
IIED claim in employment context where conduct at issue violates FEHA, but
finding plaintiff failed to satisfy IIED elements); Light v. California
Dept. of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 101 (emotional
distress based on discrimination and retaliation alleged to violate FEHA); Fretland
v. County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492 (emotional distress
resulting from alleged work-related injury discrimination); Murray v.
Oceanside Unified School Dist. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1362 (abrogated
on other grounds by Hart v. National Mortg. & Land Co. (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 1420)(emotional distress allegedly resulting from continuing pattern
of workplace harassment based on sexual orientation).)            Here, Plaintiff is alleging
emotional distress damages as a result of termination based on age
discrimination and whistleblower retaliation. 
Plaintiff’s emotional distress is therefore not the result of a “garden
variety termination.”              WMI fails to establish that
Plaintiff’s IIED claim is barred by Labor Code §3602.Triable issues of fact remain as to whether Defendant
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct in connection with Plaintiff’s IIED
claim            To state an IIED claim, the
plaintiff must allege facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress. 
(Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147
(plaintiff alleged outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive
statements made by defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and
3 of his supervisors); Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534
(affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to
amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct).)  Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a
question of fact but can be determined as an issue of law.  (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th
at 147.)              WMI argues it did not engage in
extreme and outrageous conduct, because it terminated Plaintiff for a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory, nonretaliatory reason.  However, as discussed above, triable issues
of fact remain as to whether WMI terminated Plaintiff because of his age and
whether WMI terminated Plaintiff for complaining about hour, wage, safety and rest
break violations.  As such, WMI fails to
negate Plaintiff’s allegations of outrageous conduct.              Triable issues of fact remain as to
whether WMI engaged in the alleged outrageous conduct.            Workers’ Compensation
Exclusivity bars Plaintiff’s negligent hiring claim            An employee’s claims for negligent
supervision, retention and hiring are barred by Workers’ Compensation
Exclusivity, even in cases where the employee alleges harassment.  (Coit Drapery Cleaners, Inc. v. Sequoia
Ins. Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.5th 1595, 1606.)  However, where the employer ratifies the
harassment, the employee may sue the employer for harassment directly and such
claim would not be barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.  (Id.)            WMI argues Plaintiff’s negligent
hiring claim is barred by Workers’ Compensation Exclusivity.  Plaintiff did not respond to this
argument.              No triable issues remain as to the
negligent hiring and supervision claim. 
Defendant WMI’s motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the 6th
cause of action for negligent hiring and supervision.            Triable issues of fact remain
as to punitive damages            “In the usual case, the question of
whether the defendant's conduct will support an award of punitive damages is
for the trier of fact, since the degree of punishment depends on the peculiar
circumstances of each case.  But the
issue may be resolved on summary judgment, giving due regard to the higher
proof standard. While the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a
stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to prove a case
for punitive damages at summary judgment. 
However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear
and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into
account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be
necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary
standard.  Summary judgment on the issue
of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.”  (Johnson & Johnson v. Superior Court
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 762; Pacific Gas and Electric Company v.
Superior Court (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158–1159.)  The party moving for adjudication of a
plaintiff’s punitive damages claim bears the initial burden of production.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &
Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)            As the moving party seeking
adjudication of the punitive damages claim, the initial burden was on the WMI
to negate Plaintiff’s claims of malice, fraud and oppression.  (CCP §437c(f)(1) and (2); Johnson &
Johnson v. Supr. Ct. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 757, 761.)  Only if that burden was satisfied would the
burden shift to Plaintiff to produce clear and convincing evidence of malice,
fraud and oppression.  (Mosley v.
Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435
(landlord’s failure to address issue of whether they were aware of their
tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment
where moving party failed to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher
v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot
grant summary judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first
determine if the moving party has satisfied its burden).)            WMI’s only argument is that
Plaintiff has not presented evidence of fraudulent or oppressive conduct and
that he relies entirely on unsubstantiated allegations of age discrimination
and retaliation.  However, as discussed
above, triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMI discriminated against
Plaintiff based on age or retaliated against him for complaining about
potential legal violations.  As such,
triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMI engaged in malicious conduct
under Civil Code §3294.              WMI’s motion for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is denied.              WMI fails to establish that
Plaintiff’s claims are preempted under Section 301 of the Labor Management
Relations Act            Section 301 of the LMRA states:
“Suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization
representing employees in an industry affecting commerce ... may be brought in
any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties.” 29
U.S.C. § 185(a).  “[F]ederal common law
preempts the use of state contract law in CBA interpretation and
enforcement.”  (Kobold v. Good Samaritan
Regional Medical Center (9th Cir. 2016) 832 F.3d 1024, 1032.)              Section 301 does not preempt state
law claims that do not require construing a collective bargaining
agreement.  (Lingle v. Norge Div. of
Magic Chef, Inc., 486 U.S. 399, 408 (1988). 
“Preemption is appropriate… only when the provisions of a
collective-bargaining agreement must be interpreted.”  (Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc.
(9th Cir. 1993) 998 F.2d 743, 748.)              “Critically, not every dispute
concerning employment, or tangentially involving a provision of a
collective-bargaining agreement, is pre-empted by § 301.  Drawing on Supreme Court precedent, this
court has articulated a two-step inquiry to analyze § 301 preemption of state
law claims. First, a court must determine whether the asserted cause of action
involves a right conferred upon an employee by virtue of state law, not by a
CBA. If the right exists solely as a result of the CBA, then the claim is
preempted, and the analysis ends there…If the court determines that the right
underlying the plaintiff's state law claim(s) exists independently of the CBA,
it moves to the second step, asking whether the right is nevertheless
substantially dependent on analysis of a collective-bargaining agreement.”  (Kobold, supra, 832 F.3d at
1032.)              FEHA claims are not preempted by
Section 301.  “In every case in which we
have considered an action brought under the California Employment Act, we have
held that it is not preempted by section 301.” 
(Ramirez v. Fox Television Station, Inc. (1993) 998 F.2d
743,748.)  Antidiscrimination statutes,
like FEHA, are not preempted by section 301, because the right is defined and
enforced under state law without reference to the terms of any collective
bargaining agreement.  (Chmiel v.
Beverly Wilshire Hotel Co. (9th Cir. 1989) 873 F.2d 1283, 1286.)                WMI fails to establish that
resolution of Plaintiff’s claims requires interpretation of the CBA.  While Plaintiff was terminated pursuant to
Rule 6 and the CBA, there is no dispute as to the terms of the CBA or its interpretation.  Plaintiff admits that his conduct violated
Rule 6 but he maintains that other drivers were doing the same thing he was
fired for doing and they were all doing it at the behest of management.  Plaintiff’s claim is that he was terminated
due to his age and in retaliation for his complaints regarding working
conditions.  Resolution of such claims
may “reference” the CBA to determine the terms and conditions of employment,
but Plaintiff’s underlying claim is that his employers discriminated and
retaliated against him in applying or altering those terms and conditions.  (Ramirez, supra, 998 F.2d at
748-749 (Section 301 did not preempt plaintiff’s FEHA claims of national origin
discrimination, because the claims did not require interpretation of the CBA
and were based on discrimination in application of the terms of employment,
which included the CBA.)  WMI fails to
establish that Plaintiff’s remaining claims are preempted by Section 301.              WMI’s motion for summary judgment
based on Section 301 preemption is denied. 
Conclusion            WMI’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Triable issues of fact remain as to whether WMI is Plaintiff’s employer
and whether Plaintiff was terminated as a result of age discrimination and/or
in retaliation for complaining about working conditions that he reasonably
believed were legal violations.  WMI
fails to establish that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by Section 301 of the
LMRA or that IIED is barred by worker’s compensation exclusivity.  For these reasons, WMI also fails to
establish as an issue of law that it did not engage in malicious conduct
through its managing agents for purposes of Civil Code §3294.            WMI’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED as to the Negligent Hiring and Supervision claim and
DENIED as to all other issues and causes of action.  Plaintiff’s negligent hiring and supervision
claim is barred by Worker’s Compensation Exclusivity.              It is
so ordered.  Dated: March 13, 2024 _______________________Rolf M. Treu





































































































































































































































































































Judge of the
Superior Court  