 Case Number:  22STCV10008    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California 
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
DELMORGAN GROUP, LLC, et al., 
 
                            
  Plaintiffs, 
 
                 
  vs. 
 
AUSTRALIS CAPITAL, INC., 
 
                             
  Defendant(s). 


Case No.:   22STCV10008
 
DEPARTMENT 45 
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING 
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:   03/22/2022 (First Amended Complaint 04/05/2023)
 
Trial Date:   Not
  Set. 



 
Hearing Date:          March
13, 2024
Moving Party:         Defendant
Australis Capital, Inc.
Responding Parties: Plaintiffs
DelMorgan Group, LLC and Globalist Capital, LLC
Demurrer to FAC
The court considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers.
The court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the single cause of action of the FAC, with 20 days leave to amend.
Background
Plaintiffs DelMorgan
Group, LLC and Globalist Capital, LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action on March 22, 2022 against Defendant Australis Capital, Inc. (“Defendant”
or “Australis”), asserting two causes of action for (1) Breach of Written
Contract; and (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing.
On March 20, 2023, the court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the
Complaint, with 20 days leave to amend. 
On April 5, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant
asserting a single cause of action for Breach of Written Contract. 
The FAC alleges the
following: Plaintiffs entered into a Letter of Engagement on July 12, 2021, by
which Plaintiffs would serve “as exclusive strategic transaction advisor to Australis
to perform advisory services . . .”  (FAC,
¶ 17, Ex. A.)  The purpose of the
engagement was for Plaintiffs to provide advisory services for a variety of
transactions, including to introduce Defendant to institutional investors,
assistance with negotiations related to a potential transaction, and preparing
due diligence presentations.  (Id.
at ¶ 18.)  Defendant is a Nevada-based
investment company that operates in the cannabis space.  (Id. at ¶ 16.)  Plaintiffs were to receive an upfront cash
payment and a “Transaction Fee” for their services.  (Id. at ¶ 21.)  The Letter of Engagement also contemplated
that Plaintiffs would be entitled to a “Post-Termination Transaction Fee” if
Defendant entered into a transaction with a “Covered Party” within one year of
termination.  (Id. at ¶ 22.)  Under the Letter of Engagement, a “Covered
Party” is an investor or entity who is introduced or identified by or on behalf
of Plaintiffs or Defendant with respect to a transaction during the term of the
agreement.  (Id.)
Plaintiffs provided
extensive and valuable services under the Letter of Engagement.  (Id. at ¶ 26.)  Plaintiffs negotiated a term sheet between
Defendant and LDA Capital, LLC for a private placement transaction.  (Id. at ¶ 27.)  Defendant and LDA Capital executed their
Convertible Facility Investment Agreement.  (Id. at ¶ 28.) LDA Capital emailed
Plaintiffs on January 11, 2022 with concerns regarding the transaction with
Defendant, indicating that it received conflicting reference checks from
industry advisors and lacked confidence in Defendant’s management team.  (Id. at ¶ 34.)  LDA Capital paused the transaction with
Defendant.  (Id.)
Defendant wrote to
Plaintiffs on January 25, 2022 advising that it was terminating Plaintiffs’
services under the Letter of Engagement.  (Id. at ¶ 35.)  Within 30 business days following
termination, Plaintiffs delivered to Defendant a list of Covered Parties on
February 25, 2022.  (Id. at ¶ 36;
Ex. “D.”)  Defendant issued a press
release on February 14, 2022 indicating that Defendant entered into a $10
million transaction with LDA Capital, with an option to extend for an
additional $10 million.  (Id. at ¶
37; “C.”)  On February 15, 2022,
Plaintiffs issued an invoice to Defendant for the unpaid balance and
transaction fee, and followed up on February 23 and 25, 2022.  (Id. at ¶ 40.) Defendant has not paid
Plaintiffs the transactions fees or the unpaid balance due under the Letter of
Engagement.  (Id. at ¶ 45.)
Defendant filed its
demurrer to the FAC on May 9, 2023.  Plaintiffs
filed their opposition on February 29, 2024. 
Defendant filed it reply on March 8, 2023. 
Legal Standard
When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
Discussion
Meet and
Confer
CCP § 430.41(a) states, in
relevant part: “Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
CCP § 430.41(a)(2) states,
in relevant part: “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before
the date the responsive pleading is due.  If the parties are not able to meet and confer
at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the
demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within
which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the
date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of
perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.”
CCP § 430.41(a)(3)
provides: “The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer.  (B)
That the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to
the meet and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet
and confer in good faith.”
Defendant’s counsel
attests counsel emailed a letter to opposing counsel describing the additional
deficiencies in the FAC and requesting that opposing counsel suggest dates that
he is available for a telephonic meet and confer.  (Declaration of Polica Ross (“Ross Decl.”), ¶
2.)  Defendant’s counsel declares that an
associate of opposing counsel responded to counsel’s May 1 email.  (Id. at ¶ 3.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel offered no amendments to
cure the deficiencies.  (Id. at ¶
3.)  Defendant’s counsel attests the
parties were therefore unable to resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.
(Id.)
Given the circumstances,
the court finds the meet-and-confer efforts were sufficient.  The parties were unable to resolve the issues
raised in the demurrer despite good faith efforts.  The court therefore proceeds to rule on the
merits of the demurrer.
Demurrer
Defendant demurs to the
single cause of action of the FAC for Breach of Written Contract on the grounds
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and it
is uncertain.  (CCP §§ 430.10(e), (f).)
Uncertainty 
Defendant demurs to the
cause of action on the ground of uncertainty. (CCP § 430.10(f).) 
The court finds Plaintiff’s
cause of action is not subject to demurrer for uncertainty. “[D]emurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, quoting Lickiss v. Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Plaintiffs’
cause of action for Breach of Written Contract is not so incomprehensible that
Defendant cannot reasonably respond. 
First Cause of Action –
Breach of Written Contract
Defendant contends that (1)
the facts alleged still do not satisfy the “Covered Parties” list condition
precedent required to trigger a “Post-Termination Transaction Fee”; (2) the
facts alleged do not satisfy the condition for a “Transaction Fee”; and (3) the
alleged “Prior Balance” owed fails to state a cause of action.  In opposition, Plaintiffs argues that they
adequately plead the cause of action for breach of contract: existence of a
contract, performance under the contract, breach and damages. Defendant
reiterates its argument in response.
“To establish a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the
existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.)
“Where a complaint is
based on a written contract which it sets out in full, a general demurrer to
the complaint admits not only the contents of the instrument but also any
pleaded meaning to which the instrument is reasonably susceptible.” (Aragon-Haas
v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.)
“Facts alleging a breach, like all essential elements of a breach of contract
cause of action, must be pleaded with specificity.”  (Levy v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-6.)
(1) 
 “Covered Parties” List Condition 
As to Defendant’s argument
regarding Plaintiffs’ compliance with the “Covered
Parties” list condition precedent required to trigger a “Post-Termination
Transaction Fee,” the court finds the FAC’s allegations
are sufficient. 
On March 20, 2023, the court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the
Complaint for Breach of Written Contract and Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, respectively, with 20 days leave to amend.  (Minute Order 3/20/2023.)  As to the first cause of action for Breach of
Written Contract, the tentative ruling, which became the final Order of the court
and incorporated by reference to the court’s March 20 Minute Order, provided
that the Complaint’s allegations were insufficient.  (Id.; Order at p. 7.)  Specifically, Plaintiffs failed to identify
any allegation demonstrating that Plaintiffs satisfied the following condition
of the contract: “Within thirty (30) business days following Termination, Advisors
shall deliver to the Company, a list of Covered Parties, which list shall
establish the basis for compensation under the provisions of the Agreement
following Termination.”  (Id.;
Order at pp. 7-8.)  
Subsequently, Plaintiffs
filed their FAC in attempt to address and cure this deficiency.  Plaintiffs now allege in their FAC the
following.  “Advisors have fulfilled all
of the conditions of the agreement, including delivering a list of Covered
Parties to Australis within 30 business days following termination.”  (FAC,  ¶ 48) 
“Within thirty (30) business days following termination, Advisors
timely delivered to Australis a list of Covered Parties which establishes the
basis for compensation under the provisions of the Agreement following
Termination.  That is, on February 25,
2022, Advisors emailed Australis a copy of the Covered Parties List.”  (Id. at ¶ 36.)  Plaintiffs also attached a copy of the
Covered Parties List to the FAC as Exhibit D. 
(Id.; Ex. “D.”)  That list
contains 166 names of Covered Parties.  (Id.)
The condition that is at
issue here is located in the Post-Termination Transaction Fee provision of the
parties’ Letter of Engagement: 
4) Post-Termination Transaction
Fee. If the Company consummates a Transaction at any date (the
“Consummation Date”) within one (1) year of Termination (a “Post-Termination
Transaction”) with a Covered Party (as defined below), the Company agrees to
promptly pay Advisor a Transaction Fee (a “Post-Termination Transaction Fee”)
as if such Transaction had occurred during the Term.  For the purposes of this Agreement, the
Consummation Date of a Transaction shall be deemed to have occurred if any
agreement in principle which includes material terms of such Transaction is
reached, even if the closing occurs later.  A “Covered Party” means an investor or entity
(or any affiliate of any such investor or entity) who is introduced or
identified by or on behalf of Advisor or the Company, or who is in contact with
or is contacted by Advisor or the Company, with respect to a Transaction with
the Company prior to or during the Term of the Agreement.  Within thirty (30) business days following
Termination, Advisor shall deliver to the Company a list of Covered Parties,
which list shall establish the basis for compensation under the provisions of
the Agreement following Termination.
(FAC, ¶ 1; Ex. “A” [Engt Agmt, pp.
4-5], emphasis added.) 
Defendant contends that
the new allegations by Plaintiffs in their FAC still do not satisfy the “Covered
Parties” list condition precedent required to trigger a “Post-Termination
Transaction Fee.”  According to
Defendant, Plaintiffs’ allegation at ¶ 36 of
the FAC that Plaintiffs timely delivered to Defendant a
list of Covered Parties “which establishes the basis for compensation under the
provisions of the Agreement following termination” is conclusory because the
list is merely just that, a list of names with “no information whereby it ‘establishes
the basis for compensation under the provisions of the Agreement following
Termination,’ including that each of the 166 names listed meets the restrictive
definition of ‘Covered Parties’ in the first instance.”  (Demurrer, p. 10.)  Defendant contends that “Plaintiffs were
required to provide a Covered Parties list containing information necessary to
‘establish’ that each name so listed is in fact a person that would entitle
Plaintiffs to be paid ‘under the provisions of the Agreement’ itself. . . .” (Id.
at p. 11.)   
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue they have cured the prior deficiency regarding the Covered Party List and
thus have alleged their performance under the Contract.  Plaintiffs specifically point to ¶ 36 and Exhibit D of their FAC to show that they sufficiently
alleged the condition provision of the Engagement Agreement.  (Opposition, pp. 7-8.)  According to Plaintiffs, Defendant’s
interpretation of the Engagement Agreement is incorrect because the Engagement
Agreement “says no such thing”; instead, “it simply requires Plaintiffs
'deliver to [Defendants] a list of Covered Parties, which list shall establish
the basis for compensation under the provisions of the Agreement following
Termination.”  (Id. at p. 8.)
In reply, Defendant
reiterates its argument made in the moving papers. 
Here, the Court finds the
condition that is at issue is not ambiguous, and Plaintiffs’ reasonable interpretation
prevails.  The subject condition provides
that in the event of termination, Plaintiffs were required to “deliver to the [Defendant] a list of
Covered Parties, which list shall establish the basis for compensation under
the provisions of the Agreement following Termination.”  (FAC, ¶ 1; Ex. “A” [Engt Agmt, pp. 4-5].)  The terms “Covered Parties,” “Agreement,” and
“Termination” are each a defined term.  A
“Covered Party,” in particular, means “an investor or entity (or any affiliate
of any such investor or entity) who is introduced or identified by or on behalf
of [Plaintiffs] or the [Defendant], or who is in contact by [Plaintiffs] or the
{Defendant], with respect to a Transaction with the Company prior to or during
the Term of the Agreement.”  (Id.)  Thus, the Engagement Agreement did not
require Plaintiffs to provide merely any list to Defendant to satisfy the
condition precedent to the Post-Termination Transaction Fee, but a list of
“Covered Parties,” which the Engagement Agreement sets forth a specific
definition of.  Plaintiffs have alleged
their performance under the contract and cured the prior deficiency regarding
the Covered Party list by “[delivering] to [Defendant] a list of Covered
Parties, which list shall establish the basis for compensation….”  (FAC ¶¶ 26-29, 35-38; Ex.
“D.”)  
Defendant argues that the phrase
“shall establish the basis for compensation under the provisions of the
Agreement following Termination” also required Plaintiffs to “‘establish’ that
each name so listed is in fact a person what would entitle Plaintiffs to be
paid ‘under the provisions of the Agreement’ itself, e.g., that facts
show that each of the 166 names actually do meet the contractual definition of
a ‘Covered Party.’”  (Demurrer, p. 10.)  However, based on the express language of the
Engagement Agreement, the contract provides no such thing.  The definition of a “Covered Party” does not
provide for such; the Post-Termination Transaction Fee provision does not
provide for such; no where in the Engagement Agreement provides for such.  By arguing that Plaintffs’ list does not
comply with an additional requirement, Defendant is essentially treating this
phrase as a defined term, which it is not.  Also, Defendant’s interpretation of the phrase
is attenuated based on the fact that “Covered Party” is a defined term and
based on its meaning.  Thus, the court
finds Plaintiffs’ interpretation  of the
Engagement Agreement is reasonable and prevails.  Accordingly, the court finds the FAC’s
allegations are sufficient regarding Plaintiffs’ compliance with the Covered
Party list.  
(2) 
 “Transaction Fee” Condition
As to Defendant’s argument
regarding Plaintiffs’ compliance with the condition for a “Transaction Fee,”
the court finds the FAC’s allegations are insufficient. 
The Engagement Agreement states
that “[i]n the event that the [Defendant] proceeds with a
Transaction during the Term, the [Defendant] 
will, in addition to the consideration described in the ‘Advisor
Warrants’ section of this Agreement, pay to [Plaintiffs] a fee (a ‘Transaction
Fee’)….”  (FAC, ¶
1; Ex. “A” [Engt Agmt, pp. 3-4].)  For
purposes of a “Transaction Fee,” the
obligation to pay arises at or contemporaneous with “Closing.”  (Id.) 
The Engagement Agreement expressly provides: “[t]he closing (‘Closing’) of
a Transaction shall be deemed to occur on the earlier of the date of execution
of all material legal documentation or the transfer (if applicable) of funds.”  (Id.)  Plaintiffs do not deny the conditions
precedent to satisfy a “Transaction Fee.” 
Plaintiffs also fail to identify allegations demonstrating that
Plaintiffs satisfied this condition of the contract.  
On January 25, 2022, Defendant
terminated the Engagement Agreement.  (Id.
at ¶ 35.)   Plaintiffs do not assert that a transfer of funds occurred
before their January 25, 2022 termination. 
Thus, Plaintiffs must assert that the “execution of all material legal
documentation” occurred before their termination, which Plaintiffs failed to
do.  Instead, Plaintiffs assert that
Defendant released a press release on December 9, 2021, announcing it has
entered into a Letter of Intent with LDA and touting “the work done by
DelMorgan securing the Funding.”  (Id.
at ¶¶  3, 30; Ex. “B.”)  Plaintiffs then assert that:
On December 14, 2021, [Plaintiffs]
inquired of LDA about when the transaction was likely to close.  LDA notified [Plaintiffs] that they expected
to deliver a draft of the deal documents by the end of the week.  On December 21, 2021, counsel for [Defendant]
provided [Plaintiffs] with a blacklined version of the Facility Agreement for
submittal to LDA.
(Id. at ¶¶ 31-32.)  Further, the February 14, 2022 press release
states, “[Defendant] has entered into a Capital Commitment Agreement…with LDA
Capital Limited.”  (Id. at ¶ 37;
Ex. “C.”)  As such, Plaintiffs’
allegations in the FAC do not establish that Plaintiffs satisfied the condition
precedent for a “Transaction Fee” because Plaintiffs do not allege the “execution
of all material legal documentation” prior to termination.  Rather, Plaintiffs merely allege a letter of
intent, a draft of the deal, and an agreement. 
Without allegations establishing that Plaintiffs satisfied the
contract’s conditions for a “Transaction Fee,” the pleadings are insufficient. 
(3) 
“Prior Balance”
As to Defendant’s argument
that the portion of the FAC alleging a “previous balance” of $1,386.55 owed to
Plaintiffs fails to state a cause of action, the court agrees considering that there
are no allegations that Defendant agreed to pay this amount or was obligated to
pay.  (Id., at ¶¶ 5, 40, 45.) 
(4) 
Leave to Amend
Plaintiffs seeks leave to
amend if the demurrer is sustained. 
Plaintiffs state, “[s]ince the filing of the instant suit, Plaintiffs
have unearthed additional relevant information such as Defendant’s security
filings which provide information concerning the Transaction at issue.”  (Opposition, p. 10.) 
Accordingly, the court
SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (CCP § 430.10(e).)  The court
grants Plaintiffs 20 days leave to amend.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 13, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
                                                       
Judge of the Superior Court