  Case Number:  21STCV12297    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 4, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Mariel Cartwright, et al. v. Lab
Zero Games, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV12297
 





















 
PLAINTIFFS AND CROSS-DEFENDANTS MARIEL
CARTWRIGHT, FRANCESCA ESQUENAZI, AND FUTURE CLUB, INC.’S SPECIAL MOTION TO
STRIKE PURSUANT TO C.C.P. § 425.16



 
MOVING PARTIES:           Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Mariel Cartwright, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant and Cross-Complainant Lab Zero,
Inc.


 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
            
On April 1, 2021, Plaintiffs Mariel
Cartwright (“Cartwright”) and Francesca Esquenazi (“Esquenazi”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed their Complaint against Defendant Lab Zero, Inc. (“Lab
Zero”) for (1) retaliation in violation of FEHA, and (2) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Lab Zero’s
shareholder, Mike Zaimont (“Zaimont”), engaged in “a pattern of rampant sexual
harassment” against Lab Zero employees, including Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
confronted Zaimont.  In response, Zaimont
retaliated against Plaintiffs by, among other things, terminating them and
failing to distribute their equity.  
 
            Lab
Zero’s Cross-Complaint
 
            On May 20,
2021, Lab Zero filed a Cross-Complaint against Cartwright, Esquenazi, and
Future Club, Inc. (“Future Club”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”). On June
30, 2021, Lab Zero filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”)
against Cross-Defendants for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duties,
including the duties of loyalty and care, (4) misappropriation of trade secrets
under Civil Code § 3426, et seq., (5) misappropriation of trade secrets under
18 U.S.C. § 1836, et seq., (6) conversion in violation of Labor Code § 2860,
(7) conversion, (8) intentional interference with contractual relations, (9)
intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (10) defamation,
and (11) unfair business practices or acts in violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17200 et seq. 
 
Lab Zero alleges that, throughout
their employment, Cartwright and Esquenazi engaged in and welcomed conversations
with Zaimont about sex and related topics and later publicly mischaracterized
those conversations as harassment to manipulate Zaimont into leaving Lab Zero,
dismantle Lab Zero, and begin their own, competing business. In January 2021,
Cartwright and Esquenazi registered their business, Future Club in the state of
Colorado. Cartwright and Esquenazi have attempted to recruit Lab Zero employees
to transfer to Future Club and to take over Lab Zero’s connections and business
interests.  Due to Cartwright and
Esquenazi’s actions, Lab Zero perished.
 
Plaintiffs’ Special Motions to Strike 
 
On August 26, 2021, Cartwright and Esquenazi (together with
Cross-Defendant Future Club) each filed a special motion to strike as to the
eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action of the FACC.  
 
The motions were originally scheduled for hearing on
October 28, 2021. On that day, the court continued the hearing due to the
parties’ voluminous evidentiary objections and to allow the parties to file
evidentiary charts for their objections.  
On March
1, 2022, the court denied Plaintiffs’ anti-SLAPP motions.  The court held that Lab Zero's eighth
and ninth causes of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations and prospective economic relations, and eleventh cause of action for
unfair business practices, did not arise from protected activity. As to Lab
Zero's tenth cause of action for defamation, the court denied the motions based
on the determination that Cartwright’s Twitter post and Plaintiffs’ statement
to coworkers about Zaimont’s sexual harassment were not connected to an issue
of public interest. 
            Cartwright,
Esquenazi, and Future Club appealed.  The
Court of Appeal reversed and remanded the matter to this court to determine
whether Lab Zero can demonstrate its claims have at least minimal merit.  The remittitur issued on June 13, 2023.
            The court
scheduled oral argument on the second prong of Cross-Defendants’ special
motions to strike for February 6, 2024. 
At the hearing, the court continued the matter and set a briefing
schedule on the second prong.
            On August
5, 2024, the court issued a tentative ruling granting Cross-Defendants’ motion
to strike the ninth and tenth causes of action from Lab FACC. With respect to
the eighth cause of action, the motion was denied, except for allegations of
defamation.  Because the parties did not
sufficiently brief the merits of the motions as to the eleventh cause of
action, the court set a supplemental briefing schedule. 
            The issue
has been briefed.  The court now rules as
follows.  
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.    Evidentiary
Objections
The parties previously asserted
over 400 evidentiary objections.  The
court ruled on the objections in its March 1, 2022, order denying
Cross-Defendants’ special motions to strike. 
On May 6, 2024, the court directed the parties to submit a joint filing incorporating
the court’s rulings on the objections.  In
response, the parties highlighted those portions of the pleadings that were the
subject of the court’s rulings.[1]  The court notes that the material to which
the court sustained objections are highlighted in the parties’ moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  The court
does not rely on the highlighted material in ruling on the Second Prong.
 
B.     Legal
Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits a court to strike causes of action
arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of free speech or
petition, unless the plaintiff establishes there is a probability the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.  
 
 “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to
shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden
of frivolous litigation.”  (Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393 (Baral).)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of
petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early
stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Id. at p. 384.) 
 
 “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves
two steps.  First, the defendant must
establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section
425.16.  If the defendant makes the
required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit
of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  (Baral,
supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 384, citation omitted.)  The California Supreme Court has “described
this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh
evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. 
Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates
the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim
as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may
proceed.’”  (Id. at pp. 384-385, citations omitted.)  The anti-SLAPP motion need not address what
the complaint alleges is an entire cause of action and may seek to strike only
those portions which describe protected activity.  (Id.
at pp. 395-396.)
 
C.     Analysis
 
            Given the Court of Appeal’s ruling
on Prong 1, the court proceeds to Prong 2.
 
Prong
2: Lab Zero’s Probability of Prevailing on Claims
 
The burden of showing a probability
of prevailing on the claims rests with Lab Zero.  “To establish a probability of prevailing,
the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court considers the
pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant;
though the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative probative
strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a matter of
law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff’s
attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.  In making this assessment it is the court’s
responsibility…to accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff
[…].  The plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has minimal
merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.” 
(Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert
Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)  As
to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff (or cross-complainant) seeking to
demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its complaint, even
if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible
evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High Sch. Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6
Cal.5th 931, 940.) 
 
1.      Cartwright’s
August 24, 2020 Twitter Post (“August 24 Tweet” or “Tweet”)[2]
 
Hi, The reason Lab
Zero never issued a statement about MikeZ is because he hasn’t let us. I’ve
considered Mike a close friend and coworker for 10 years. I’ve known he was
someone who can and will screw up (like anyone!) and I’ve tried to be as
understanding as any friend could by trying to listen to his side, always being
willing to talk things through. We've spent many, many late nights talking and
working together, and I think, genuinely, we did work well together. But June
was hard. After the widely-criticized racist joke and then the inappropriate
DMs and other stories, our team started speaking up. What we realized was that
there was a pattern of behavior that I don’t think we had fully understood
until then. A pattern of hostility, insults, threats, lying, and harassment
that many on our team had not openly shared with each other before. It’s not
“Well, Mike is kind of a jerk but he’s not a bad guy,” anymore. It’s “Mike is
not the person we thought he was.” He doesn’t respect employees who don’t work
at all hours. He gets hostile and talks down to people. He makes jokes about
firing people to their faces. He makes inappropriate jokes about his dick. He
threatens and insults people and our partners, both directly and in public. He
straight up lies, or misrepresents things he said earlier. But multiple times,
when confronted about his behavior, he'd say we were being unfair and would
threaten to quit - which would jeopardize our projects, and so people would
back down. He’s also outright told us that he can’t and won’t change. The thing is... I’ve been subject to
harassment by him too. I tolerated years of sexual comments about my body and
clothes, uncomfortable jokes, unwanted hugs. He once suggested that I
masturbate when I told him I couldn’t sleep, and on another occasion suggested
I 'help' him with his unfulfilled sexual needs. I made a complaint about him
during my time at Reverge Labs back in 2011. I did try to talk directly to him
about how I was uncomfortable in 2017, and in return he called me a hypocrite
and blamed me for how I dressed. He said he didn’t want sexual harassment
training. If I wanted to keep my job, I felt like I had to just deal with it.
And to be totally honest - if it was just me, I probably would’ve kept dealing
with it. But I’ve learned that it’s not just me. He’s done this for years, to
multiple people, and I can’t continue protecting him by staying quiet about it
anymore. I’m here today because we had asked him to leave over these
behaviors. He apologized for his behavior and said he would, but has now turned
around and said he won’t, all the while continuing to intimidate and bully
employees. Mike is the 100% shareholder of the company, and as such, it is his
right to stay if he wants to. So... I’ve left Lab Zero. I’ve helped build this
studio from its start in 2012. I love this team and I love this job. I love
what we get to make, and I think everyone at our small studio is wildly
talented. I could not be more lucky than to work with everyone here. But I
don’t think any of us should work in these conditions. It’s been years of behavior that we tolerated because we thought we had
no other choice - but it’s clear to me now that my choice is to remove
myself and move on. We really tried to make it work, and I’m sorry to our
community and partners who supported us all these years. We wouldn’t have made
it this far without you. Thank you. I guess that’s it. This sucks. Thanks for
reading.
 
(Cartwright Decl., Ex. 3, emphasis added.)  
 
2.      Merit
of Lab Zero’s Defamation Claim (Tenth Cause of Action)[3] 
 
Lab Zero’s defamation claim is alleged against Cartwright and
Esquenazi only.  
 
The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that
is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency
to injure or causes special damage.” (J-M Mfg. Co. v. Phillips & Cohen
LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 87, 97.)  “A
statement is defamatory when it tends ‘directly to injure [a person] in respect
to [that person's] office, profession, trade or business, either by imputing to
[the person] general disqualification in those respects which the office or
other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference
to [the person's] office, profession, trade, or business that has a natural
tendency to lessen its profits.’ (Civ. Code, § 46, subd. 3.)” (McGarry v. University of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 112.)  Moreover, where “the person defamed is a public figure, he cannot recover unless he
proves, by clear and convincing evidence” that the statement at issue was made
with actual malice, which is defined as “knowledge that it was false or with
reckless disregard of whether it was false or not.”  (Stolz v. KSFM 102 FM (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 195, 202.)  
 
Cross-Defendants argue the
defamation claim fails because Lab Zero cannot show: (1) that the alleged
defamatory statements concerned the company (rather than Zaimont personally),
(2) that the statements were false, or (3) that the statements were made with
actual malice, and further, that the statements were privileged.  Cross-Defendants argue the defamation claim
should be stricken as to Esquenazi because Lab Zero fails to identify any
defamatory statement made by Esquenazi.[4]  
 
a.       Whether
the alleged defamatory statements concerned Lab Zero 
Lab Zero alleges as follows:
“Cross-Defendants Cartwright, Esquenazi, and Roes 1-25 made false statements to
the public, publishers or developers working with Lab Zero, and/or Lab Zero’s
employees about Zaimont in his role as a shareholder, employee, and/or director
of Lab Zero. These statements included that Cross-Defendants felt that Zaimont
had sexually harassed them over many years and that Zaimont had created a
hostile work environment. Cross-Defendants knew and believed that these
statements were false, as evidenced by Cross-Defendants’ responses to Zaimont’s
comments, as well as Cross-Defendants’ own statements confirming that they did
not feel their conversations with Zaimont were problematic.”  (FACC, ¶ 125.)  The parties agree the defamation claim is
based upon Cartwright’s August 24 Tweet. 

 
“In California, whether statements
can be reasonably interpreted as referring to plaintiffs is a question of law
for the court.”  (SDV/ACCI, Inc. v. AT & T Corp. (9th Cir. 2008) 522 F.3d 955, 959.)
 “If there is no express reference to the
plaintiff in a defamatory statement, the claim will fail unless the statement
refers to the plaintiff by reasonable implication.”  (Id.)  “Words spoken or written of a stockholder or
officer give no right of action to the corporation unless spoken or written in
direct relation to the trade or business of the corporation.”  (Washburn
v. Wright (1968) 261 Cal.App.2d 789, 793.)  “If they relate solely to the stockholder,
officer or employee in his private or personal capacity, only the individual
can complain.”  (Id.; see also Restatement (Second) of Torts § 561 (1977) (“A
corporation is not defamed by communications defamatory of its officers, agents
or stockholders unless they also reflect discredit upon the method by which the
corporation conducts its business.”); Palm
Springs Tennis Club v. Rangel (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1, 6 (“[I]f language
written about a corporate officer cannot be interpreted as saying anything
about the way that officer performs his or her duties and responsibilities as
an officer of the corporation, so as to have a natural tendency to affect the
corporation disadvantageously in its business, the corporation has no right of
action.”).)
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the alleged defamatory statements concern
Zaimont’s sexual harassment of Carwright and others which necessarily relates
only to Zaimont in his personal capacity. 
If so, Cross-Defendants argue Lab Zero cannot alleged it has been
defamed.  In support of their argument
Cross-Defendants emphasize that none of the statements in the Tweet discredited
Lab Zero’s products, or suggested that Lab Zero’s products were faulty, or
claimed that Lab Zero is engaged in fraud or unfair business practices.  The only reference to Lab Zero in the August
24 Tweet is the statement, “The Reason Lab Zero never issued a statement about
MikeZ is because he hasn’t let us.”  (Cartwright
Decl., Ex. 4.)  In other words,
Cross-Defendants contend that only Zaimont and, not Lab Zero, has grounds to
complain about the statement.
 
The court disagrees.  At first glance, the August 24 Tweet appears
to comment only on Zaimont’s conduct. 
However, as Lab Zero points out, the August 24 Tweet also states that
Zaimont “doesn’t respect employees who don’t work at all hours. He gets hostile
and talks down to people. He makes jokes about firing people to their faces . .
. He threatens and insults people and our partners, both directly and in
public.”  (Cartwright Decl., Ex. 4.)  Further, “when confronted about his behavior,
he'd say we were being unfair and would threaten to quit - which would
jeopardize our projects.”  (Id.)  These statements are made in the context that
Zaimont is the “100% shareholder” of Lab Zero. 
(Id.)  Taken together, it is reasonable to infer
that Zaimont’s conduct is directly related to how Zaimont, as the sole
shareholder of Lab Zero, managed
Lab Zero’s affairs, including the working conditions, how projects were completed, and how Lab Zero interacted with its partners.  It is further reasonable to infer that the
statements have a natural tendency to damage Lab Zero’s business by, for
example, dissuading potential clients and partners from working with Lab Zero.[5]  The defamation claim survives the attack on
this basis.
 
b.     
Whether
the statements were false


“[A]n opinion or legal conclusion
is actionable only if it could reasonably be understood as declaring or
implying actual facts capable of being proved true or false . . . . [and] is
not actionable if it discloses all the statements of fact on which the opinion
is based and those statements are true.” 
(Integrated Healthcare Holdings,
Inc. v. Fitzgibbons (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 515, 527 (internal quotation
marks omitted).)  “[T]ruth is a complete
defense to a defamation claim.”  (Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
256, 293.)  “In order to establish the
defense, the defendant need not prove the literal truth of the allegedly
libelous accusation, so long as the imputation is substantially true so as to
justify the “gist or sting” of the remark.” (Campanelli v. Regents of Univ. of California (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
572, 581–82.)
 
In determining whether a statement
declares or implies a provably false assertion of fact, courts apply the
totality of the circumstances test.  (Overhill Farms, Inc. v. Lopez (2010) 190
Cal.App.4th 1248, 1261.) “Under the totality of the circumstances test,
‘[f]irst, the language of the statement is examined. For words to be
defamatory, they must be understood in a defamatory sense.... [¶] Next, the
context in which the statement was made must be considered.’ ” (Id.) “The ‘pertinent question’ is
whether a ‘reasonable fact finder’ could conclude that the statements ‘as a
whole, or any of its parts, directly made or sufficiently implied a false
assertion of defamatory fact that
tended to injure’ plaintiff's reputation.” (James
v. San Jose Mercury News, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1, 13.) “Whether
challenged statements convey the requisite factual imputation is ordinarily a
question of law for the court.” (Issa
v. Applegate (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th
689, 703.) 
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the
August 24 Tweet is not defamatory because it contains non-actionable opinion
and true statements of fact.  Moreover, Cross-Defendants also point
out that Lab Zero, by omission, admits
or concedes that Zaimont made
the statements and engaged in the sexual
harassing conduct described by Cartwright.  Instead, Lab Zero pivots and argues
that Cartwright “voluntarily facilitated or engaged in sexually
motivated conversations with Zaimont over many years during [her] employment .
. . . [and] retroactively and falsely characterize these conversations as
sexual harassment or the basis of a hostile work environment.”  (FACC, ¶ 12.) 

 
Lab Zero argues Cartwright’s statements are false because she “welcomed” Zaimont’s
conduct.  Lab Zero offers evidence
to show that Zaimont and Cartwright had a years long friendship wherein any and
all topics were discussed. For instance, Cartwright would discuss sex, sexual
orientation, urination, menstruation, porn, plastic surgery, and body image,
among other topics, with Zaimont.  (See
Zaimont Decl., ¶ 14.)  Many of the referenced
conversations took place from 2016 to 2019. 
As such, the totality of circumstances shows that Cartwright’s August
24, 2020 statement suggesting that Cartwright “tolerated” Zaimont’s sexual
comments and that she resigned because of those behaviors may be provably false,
or at least misleading, because, according to Zaimont, Cartwright regularly engaged
in lewd conversations with Zaimont such that she welcomed Zaimont’s sexual
comments.
 
The court agrees with Cross-Defendants.
 The gravamen of any sexual harassment
claim is that the conduct is “unwelcomed.”  (Meritor
Sav. Bank, FSB v. Vinson (1986) 477 U.S. 57, 68.)  Here, the “gist or sting” of the August 24
Tweet is that Zaimont’s comments and conduct were unwelcomed.  Cross-Defendants offer evidence that
Cartwright complained to Zaimont about his comments to her in 2011 and
2017.  (Cartwright Decl., ¶¶ 2,3.)  Zaimont’s comments to Cartwright were therefore
not welcomed.  Despite the complaints,
Zaimont persisted in making comments to Cartwright until she resigned.  (Id.)  Lab Zero does not address those complaints.  Cross-Defendants also point out that the
truth of Cartwright’s statement that she endured “unwanted hugs” stands unchallenged.  
 
Lab Zero’s argument boils down to
the following: because there is evidence that Cartwright made sexually explicit
comments to Zaimont, Cartwright essentially welcomed Zaimont’s comments and
actions.  Lab Zero reaches too far.  Twice
Cartwright went to Zaimont and asked him to stop his sexually harassing
conduct.  He persisted.  What comes afterwards can no longer be
portrayed as welcome.  Zaimont was her
boss and the 100% owner of Lab Zero.  After
asking him to stop, Cartwright continued to be sexually harassed.  Zaimont’s sexual harassment cannot be
characterized as welcome.  As
established by the record: (1) Cartwright engaged in sexually explicit or lewd
conversations with Zaimont, and (2) Cartwright did not welcome Zaimont’s conduct
towards her.  Both facts can
simultaneously exist without contradicting the other. [6]   
 
Lab Zero also argues Zaimont’s behavior and statements were either not
sexually harassing or should be viewed as welcomed because Cartwright
knew Zaimont had an autism spectrum disorder and so she cannot claim to feel sexually harassed by
Zaimont.  This argument lacks merit.  Raising autism as mitigation or a defense does not sanitize Zaimont’s conduct nor add
weight to Lab Zero’s argument that Cartwright welcomed the sexual harassment. 
 
On this basis alone, Lab Zero’s cause of action lacks minimal merit.
 
c.      
Whether
the statement was made with malice
 
“Actual malice” that is required in
defamation cases “is quite different from the common-law standard of ‘malice’
generally required under state tort law to support an award of punitive
damages.” (Cantrell v. Forest City
Publishing Co. (1974) 419 U.S. 245, 252.) “Actual malice” is a term of art
in defamation cases, meaning the defendant knew the statement was false or
acted with reckless disregard of its falsity. (Khawar v. Globe Int'l, Inc. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 254, 262.) The test
“directs attention to the ‘defendant’s attitude toward the truth or falsity of
the material published . . . [not] the defendant’s attitude toward the
plaintiff.” (Reader's Digest Assn. v.
Super. Ct. (1984) 37 Cal.3d 244, 257; Christian
Research Inst. v. Alnor (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 71, 81 (“actual malice’ is
publishing a knowingly false statement or having serious doubts as to its
truth).) “[T]he ultimate issue is thus the good faith of the publisher.” (St. Amant v. Thompson (1968) 390 U.S.
727, 732.) A defendant cannot “automatically insure a favorable verdict by
testifying that he published with a belief that the statements were true.” (Id.) “The finder of fact must determine
whether the publication was indeed made in good faith.” (Id.)
 
Actual malice must be shown when the target of the defamatory statement
is a limited public figure.  The parties
dispute whether Zaimont is a limited public figure.  If he is, Cross-Defendants argue that Lab
Zero fails to make a prima facie showing by clear and convincing evidence that Cross-Defendants knew the August 24
Tweet was false or acted with
reckless disregard reckless disregard of
its falsity.  
 
A limited public figure is “an
individual who ‘voluntarily injects himself or is drawn into a particular
public controversy and thereby becomes a public figure for a limited range of
issues.’” (Stolz
v. KSFM 102 FM (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 195, 203 (internal quotation marks
omitted).) Where “the person defamed is a public figure, he cannot recover
unless he proves, by clear and convincing evidence” that the statement at issue
was made with actual malice, which is defined as “knowledge that it was false
or with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not.”  (Id.
at p. 202.)  
 
The court finds that Zaimont is a limited public figure.  The first allegations of sexual harassment
against Zaimont surfaced in the public sphere in June 2020.  Thereafter, numerous articles on the
allegations and Lab Zero’s dissolution followed; Zaimont also became a trending
topic on Twitter.  (See King Decl., Exs.
1, 82-94.)  Zaimont was drawn into a
public controversy.  Based on the
foregoing, the court finds Zaimont became a limited figure on the issue of the sexual
harassment allegations made against him. 
Accordingly, Zaimont must furnish clear and convincing evidence that the
August 24 Tweet was false or was made with reckless disregard.  
 
As discussed above, Cross-Defendants establish that the August 24 Tweet
was not false.  Moreover, Lab Zero does
not present sufficient evidence to establish a probability of prevailing by
clear and convincing evidence that Cross-Defendants published the Tweet with
knowledge of or reckless disregard for its falsity.  Lab Zero’s evidence amounts to a few messages
sent by Cartwright on company Slack[7]
channels which purportedly show that Cartwright had serious doubts as to its
truth.  Cartwright stated, “in my own
case too, I’m having trouble coming to terms [with] whether what I experienced
WAS harassment or not so maybe a neutral party would help give that perspective?
I dunno.” (Zaimont Decl., ¶ 52, Ex. 3, emphasis in original.)  
 
However, Lab Zero advances an
interpretation of Cartwright’s messages stripped of its context.  Read in context, Cartwright reached out to others to cross-reference
and assess her experiences by
comparison.  She shared her own encounters
with Zaimont so that she and other employees could process their experiences
with Zaimont’s conduct.  (Suppl.
Cartwright Decl., Ex. 4 at p. 197.)   Cartwright’s
investigation demonstrates a sincerity in trying to properly characterize her
experience prior to issuing the Tweet.  If
anything, by consulting with others, Cartwright demonstrates a basis to
corroborate her belief in the truth of her Tweet.  Lab Zero does not carry its burden to show Cartwright
seriously doubted the veracity of her August 24 Tweet, let alone that she knew the statements regarding Zaimont’s
sexual harassment were false and made with reckless disregard of their falsity.  Having so concluded, the court finds Lab Zero
fails to show the August 24 Tweet was made with actual malice.  
 
For the foregoing reasons, Lab Zero fails to demonstrate its
defamation claim has minimal merit.  The
claim is therefore stricken as to Cartwright.
 
d.     
Whether
the defamation claim should be stricken as to Esquenazi 
 
Given the court’s finding on the
truth of the August 24 Tweet, the court likewise strikes the defamation claim
as to Esquenazi.  An order striking Lab
Zero’s defamation claim as to Esquenazi is warranted for the further reason
that Cartwright, not Esquenazi, published the August 24 Tweet.  Lab Zero does not offer any evidence to show
Esquenazi played a role in drafting or planning the issuance of the challenged
statement. [8]
 
3.     
Merit
of Lab Zero’s Intentional Interference Causes of Action (Eighth and Ninth
Causes of Action)
 
Lab Zero alleges that
Cross-Defendants “knew of the contracts, and disrupted or prevented performance
of the contracts [with various developers and publishers]. Cross-Defendants
engaged in a scheme, devise, and plan to dismantle and destroy Lab Zero and
start a new, competing company, namely, Future Club. Integral to this plan was
the disruption, cancellation, and prevention of Lab Zero’s contracts with
publishers or developers.”  (FACC, ¶¶
109, 110.)  Those developers include
Autumn Games, Hidden Variables, 505 Games, Focus and Ark System Works.  In particular Lab Zero contends that “Autumn
Games, Hidden Variables, and Arc System Works each released statements that
they were cancelling existing or future contracts with Lab Zero due to the
contents of Cartwright’s Tweet.” (Opp. at p. 14:10-12.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
seek to strike the entirety of Lab Zero’s intentional interference causes of
action because, as they contend, those causes of action are based entirely on
the August 24 Tweet, i.e., protected activity. 
Lab Zero does not expressly rebut that characterization of the eighth
and ninth causes of action.  Rather, Lab
Zero contends these causes of action are based, in part, on nonprotected
activity.  (See Opp., p. 14:24-26.)  The briefing on these causes of action (as well as the Eleventh Cause of Cause
of the Action) is lacking in substance and authority.   
 
Lab Zero invokes the “mixed” nature of its intentional interference causes
of action.  The California Supreme Court
first addressed the issue of “mixed causes of action” in Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376.  Subsequently, in Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, the High
Court provided further guidance on how to analyze causes of action based on
protected and unprotected activity.  The Bonni Court stated:
 
“In Baral, we addressed how a court should
proceed when a plaintiff has pleaded what is sometimes loosely referred to as a
“ ‘mixed cause of action’ ” — that is, a cause of action that rests on
allegations of multiple acts, some of which constitute protected activity and
some of which do not. (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 382, 205
Cal.Rptr.3d 475, 376 P.3d 604.) We considered and disapproved a line of cases
that had held an anti-SLAPP “motion lies only
to strike an entire count as pleaded in the complaint.” (Ibid.) Such a rule would allow a plaintiff, through artful
pleading, to shield particular allegations of protected activity, themselves
sufficient to give rise to a claim for relief, from a motion to strike by
intermingling them with unprotected acts. (Id.
at pp. 387–388, 392–393, 205 Cal.Rptr.3d 475, 376 P.3d 604.) Analysis of an
anti-SLAPP motion is not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of
action, as pleaded by the plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has
merit. Instead, courts should analyze each claim for relief — each act or set
of acts supplying a basis for relief, of which there may be several in a single
pleaded cause of action — to determine whether the acts are protected and, if
so, whether the claim they give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to
survive the motion. (Id. at pp.
393–395, 205 Cal.Rptr.3d 475, 376 P.3d 604.)
 
Baral was a second-step anti-SLAPP case, but our instructions for
how to handle so-called mixed causes of action began with the first step. At
that stage, we said, the moving defendant must identify the acts alleged in the
complaint that it asserts are protected and what claims for relief are
predicated on them. In turn, a court should examine whether those acts are
protected and supply the basis for any claims. It does not matter that other
unprotected acts may also have been alleged within what has been labeled a
single cause of action; these are “disregarded at this stage.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 396, 205 Cal.Rptr.3d 475, 376 P.3d 604.) So
long as a “court determines that relief is sought based on allegations arising
from activity protected by the statute, the second step is reached” with
respect to these claims. (Ibid.)
 
(Bonni v. St. Joseph
Health Sys., 11 Cal.5th at p. 1010.)
 
The Bonni Court also reaffirmed the principle stated in Baral that “[a]llegations of protected
activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery,
cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health Sys., 11 Cal. 5th at p. 1012.)  Accordingly, in the retaliation claims at
issue in Bonni, the Court stated:
 
“Here, too, we may
consider whether Bonni's various allegations supply the elements of a
retaliation claim or merely provide context. But to the extent Bonni has
alleged various acts as a basis for relief and not merely as background, each
act or set of acts must be analyzed separately under the usual two-step
anti-SLAPP framework. The Hospitals bear the burden of showing that each
allegation supporting Bonni's claim of recovery is one that rests on protected
activity. If the Hospitals carry that burden, Bonni will then need to
demonstrate some merit to his claim that those protected acts were taken for
impermissible retaliatory reasons; if he cannot, those particular allegations
will be stricken. Conversely, to the extent any acts are unprotected, the claims
based on those acts will survive.”
 
(Id., footnote omitted.)
 
            Here, as
alleged in the FACC and Lab Zero’s opposition, the defamatory statement (the
August 24 Tweet) was made as part of a larger scheme to disrupt Lab Zero’s
then-current and future contractual relationships so as to “dismantle and
destroy” Lab Zero and start “a new, competing company, namely, Future Club.” (See
FACC, ¶¶ 109, 110.)[9]  For example, Lab Zero argues that the scheme also
included misrepresentations made by Cartwright and Esquenazi to Focus Home
Interactive (Focus), a Lab Zero client, regarding the status of the company.  This had a ripple effect.  Focus refused to make a payment due under a
contract.  Lab Zero, relying on that
payment, could not make payroll and retain its employees.  Lab Zero lost staff.  Focus and 505 Games, another Lab Zero client,
cancelled their contracts with Lab Zero, citing lack of staff as the reason.  Lab Zero also argues that Cartwright and
Esquenazi influenced employees to leave Lab Zero.  The court agrees the eighth cause of action is
based on protected and unprotected activity. 
Under Baral, these are mixed
causes of action.[10]  With this understanding, the court analyzes
the eighth and ninth causes of action separately. 
 
a. Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations (Eighth Cause of Action) 
 
“It has long been held that a
stranger to a contract may be liable in tort for intentionally interfering with
the performance of the contract. The elements which a plaintiff must plead to
state the cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2)
defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50
Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
Interference or disruption of the contract includes conduct
that “prevented performance or made performance more expensive or
difficult.”  (See CACI No. 2201; see also
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 50
Cal.3d at p. 1129.)  
 
            Cross-Defendants
challenge the Eighth Cause of Action on the following grounds: (1) Cartwright
and Esquenazi cannot be held liable for allegedly tortious acts committed while
they were agents of Lab Zero; and (2) Lab Zero cannot show that any actions by
Cross-Defendants proximately caused the
breaches of the various contracts because Lab Zero was unable to perform
the contracts irrespective of the August 24 Tweet (a challenge to the third element of the cause of action.)    
 
The court agrees with Lab Zero that Cross-Defendants were not acting in
the scope of their employment when they allegedly intentionally interfered with
Lab Zero’s contractual relationships.  
 
Here, Cross-Defendants move to strike the entirety of the cause of
action.  But, as discussed above, Lab
Zero presents a mixed cause of action. The protected activity (the Tweet) is but
one part in a series of events (“scheme, devise, or plan”).  Based upon the unprotected conduct, the cause
of action survives Cross-Defendants’ attack. 
The series of events as laid out by Lab Zero, which the court must accept
as true, satisfy each and all of the elements of the cause of action. (Soukup,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at. 291 [“In making this assessment it is the court’s
responsibility…to accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff […].”].)
 Lab Zero meets its burden to demonstrate
minimal merit. 
 
            Notwithstanding
the survival of the cause of action, the issue remains whether the court should
strike the protected activity (the Tweet) from the cause of action.[11]  The parties do not address this issue.  No authority was presented by either
side.  The court looks to Baral and
Bonni for guidance.  In Baral,
Justice Corrigan stated that when the court reaches the second step, “the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged claim based
on protected activity is legally sufficient and factually substantiated. The
court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts, must determine whether the
plaintiff's showing, if accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to
sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is stricken. Allegations of
protected activity supporting the stricken claim are eliminated from the
complaint, unless they also support a distinct claim on which the
plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing.” (Baral, supra,1 Cal.5th at p. 396, emphasis
added.)  Similarly, in Bonni, the
California Supreme Court stated, that once the plaintiff reaches the second
step, the plaintiff “will then need to demonstrate some merit to his claim that
those protected acts were taken for impermissible retaliatory reasons;
if he cannot, those particular allegations will be stricken. Conversely, to the
extent any acts are unprotected, the claims based on those acts will survive.”  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1012, emphasis added.) 
 
Lab Zero includes the Tweet in its description
of the series of events (the “scheme, devise, plan”) that led to the
interference with contractual relationships. 
 The series of events as described
by Lab Zero as stated in its Opposition at page 14 goes something like this: Cartwright
and Esquenazi solicited and manipulated Lab Zero’s employees to leave and start
a new company; as a result staff members resigned; on August 24, Cartwright
published her Tweet; as a result of her Tweet, third parties including Autumn
Games, Hidden Variable, Arc System each released statements they were
cancelling their contracts with Lab Zero[12];
on August 25th, Lab Zero had no choice but to lay off employees
because Focus refused to pay Lab Zero $200,000; Focus decided not to pay Lab
Zero because of Cartwright’s Tweet and Cartwright’s and Esquenazi’s
conversations with Focus.  In this way,
the Tweet supports Lab Zero’s Eighth Cause of Action.  Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike the Eighth
Cause of Action is denied, as is the motion to strike the Tweet which supports
the factual basis for the Eighth Cause of Action.[13]  
 
            b.  Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Relations (Ninth Cause of Action)
 
“Intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage has five elements: (1) the existence, between
the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that contains
the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s
action.”  (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017)
2Cal.5th 505, 512; CACI No. 2022.)  The
interference must be wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the
interference itself.  (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378. “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is
unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.)
 
            The Ninth Cause
of Action is based on the following allegation: “Cross-Defendants made
defamatory statements to the public, publishers or developers working with Lab
Zero, and/or Lab Zero’s employees about Zaimont in his role as a shareholder,
employee, and/or director of Lab Zero as a part of their scheme, devise, and
plan to disrupt these economic relations by dismantling and destroying Lab Zero
and starting a new, competing company, namely, Future Club.”  (FACC, ¶ 118.)  
 
Like the Eighth Cause of Action,
the Ninth Cause of Action is mixed.  It
rests, in part, on the August 24 Tweet (the protected activity).  However,
one element of the Ninth Cause of Action rests entirely on the
allegation of defamation, and because of that, Cross-Defendants
challenge Lab Zero’s ability to present minimal merit because Lab Zero will not
be able to establish the third element of the cause of action: a wrongful
act.  As indicated by Paragraph 118 in
the FACC, and as Lab Zero conceded on appeal, Cartwright and Esquenazi’s
defamation is the wrongful act in support of this cause of action.  (See Lab
Zero, Inc. v. Cartwright, 2023 WL 2767921, at *9, fn. 13.)  Cross-Defendants
argue that, because the August 24 Tweet is not defamatory, it cannot supply the
wrongfulness to state an intentional interference with prospective economic
relations claim.  The court agrees. The
court has found that the August 24 Tweet was not defamatory because it is not
provably false and was not made with actual malice.  Therefore, August 24 Tweet is protected
activity that is not independently wrongful. 
Lab Zero does not offer any argument to the contrary.  
 
In sum, Lab Zero fails to show any wrongful conduct in support of its
Ninth Cause of Action.  With one element missing, Lab Zero cannot meet
its burden to show minimal merit. 
Accordingly, the court strikes the Ninth Cause of Action. 
 
4.      Merit
of Lab Zero’s UCL Claim (Eleventh Cause of Action) 
The UCL is codified at Business and
Professions Code, section 17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL provides that
a private person “who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of the unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)¿ “To bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must show
either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice, or (2)
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising. [Citation.]¿ Because the
UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”¿ (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and quotations omitted.)¿ The UCL is “not an
all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.”  (Madrid v. Perot Sys. Corp. (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 440, 452 (citations omitted).) 
 
The FACC alleges: “Cross-Defendants
engaged in unfair business practices by engaging in a scheme, devise, and plan
to dismantle and destroy Lab Zero and start a new, competing company, namely,
Future Club. Cross-Defendants made false and deceiving representations to the public,
publishers, and/or Lab Zero’s employees in an effort to solicit, induce,
recruit, and encourage them to terminate their relationships with Lab Zero or
otherwise contribute to the demise and destruction of the company.”  (FACC, ¶ 135.)
 
The court ordered supplemental
briefing on the viability of Lab Zero’s UCL claim.  The court has reviewed the parties’
supplemental briefing.  There is no
dispute the UCL claim is based, in part, on the eighth cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations. 
The UCL claim and international interference claim are thus
intertwined.  The court has found the
eighth cause of action has minimal merit. 
The court likewise finds Lab Zero’s intentional interference claim has
minimal merit.  Cross-Defendants are not
entitled to an order striking this claim.[14]
 
 
III.      CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ Special Motion to Strike is Granted in Part.  The
Ninth and Tenth Causes of
Action are stricken from Lab
Zero’s First Amended Cross-Complaint.[15]  
 
The Motion is Denied with Respect to the Eighth and Eleventh Causes of
Action, except for allegations of defamation. 
Allegations of defamation, if any, are stricken. 
 
Cross-Defendants are to give
notice.
 
Dated:   October 4, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


