 Case Number:  24STCV12715    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
26, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Jose Licea v. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV12715
 





















 
STATUS
CONFERENCE RE: JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY



 
 
I.         INTRODUCTION
 
            Plaintiff Jose
Licea (Plaintiff or Licea) brings this action against Defendant Hilton
Worldwide Holdings Inc. (Defendant or Hilton) for violation of the California
Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA).  Licea
alleges that Hilton operates the website “www.grandwailea.com” which provides
information about the Grand Wailea, a resort located in Hawaii.  Unbeknownst to website visitors, Hilton deploys
spyware on the website which accesses visitors’ devices and installs tracking
spyware without obtaining consent.  The
tracking spyware allows Hilton to monitor visitors’ online habits after leaving
the website.  Licea further alleges that
Hilton accessed Licea’s device after Licea visited the website.
 
            On July 26,
2024, Hilton filed a motion to quash service of summons on the grounds that it
does not own or operate hotels in California, is not registered to do business
in California, and does not operate the website.  
 
            The motion
was heard on August 26, 2024.  After
taking the matter under submission, the court issued a ruling finding Plaintiff
had not established general or specific personal jurisdiction but granting Plaintiff’s
request to conduct jurisdictional discovery. 
The court directed Plaintiff to submit a discovery plan and concurrently
continued Hilton’s motion to quash.  The
court set a status conference for October 4, 2024, to resolve any dispute, if
any, regarding Plaintiff’s proposed discovery plan.
 
            On
September 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his discovery plan.  Hilton filed timely its objection to the
plan.  Plaintiff responded.  The court now rules as follows.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Plaintiffs’ Proposed Jurisdictional
Discovery Plan  
 
Plaintiff proposes conducting the deposition of Hilton’s
corporate designee(s) regarding the following topics: 
 
1.     
The percentage of revenue that
Hilton obtains from California residents; 
2.     
Whether California residents made
reservations resulting from their use of the website at:
https://www.grandwailea.com (the “Website”); 
3.     
Whether Hilton advertises the Grand
Wailea, A Waldorf Astoria Resort, to California residents; and 
4.     
Whether Hilton owns, operates, or
otherwise directs the Website, and if Hilton does not own or operate the
Website, which entity does so. 
 
Plaintiff proposes a maximum length of two hours of
deposition testimony and conducting the depositions remotely via Zoom.
Alternatively, Plaintiff is amenable to setting such deposition for an
in-person deposition at Plaintiff’s counsel’s office. Plaintiff has prepared a
draft version of its deposition notice.  (See Ferrell Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
In addition, Plaintiff proposes propounding limited written
discovery upon Hilton that is narrowly focused upon Hilton’s revenues derived
from either California residents or entities located in California, i.e., those
who have California addresses. Plaintiff submits draft versions of the written
discovery as well as a draft version of a stipulated protective order.  (See Ferrell Decl., Exs. 2-4.)
 
B.    
Hilton’s Response   
 
Hilton opposes the discovery plan on the ground the answers
to the questions posed in Plaintiff’s proposed discovery “unequivocally confirm
that there is no basis for personal jurisdiction over Hilton Worldwide
Holdings.”  (Hilton’s Response, p. 2.) Hilton
offers the declaration of Hilton officer James O. Smith to establish (1) Hilton
does not operate the website nor does it directly obtain revenue from
California residents related to the Grand Wailea or the Website; (2) Hilton
does not direct the sale of any goods or services in California relating to the
Hotel or the Website; and (3) Hilton is not responsible for the Website’s
advertising related to the Hotel, either in California or elsewhere.  (See Smith Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)  For these reasons, Hilton argues
jurisdictional discovery is unwarranted, and the motion to quash, granted.
 
This is the same argument Hilton advanced in support of its
motion to quash.  The court has already
determined Plaintiff is entitled to jurisdictional discovery.  Accordingly, the question is whether
Plaintiff details a discovery plan that is not overly broad in scope.  Moreover, given Hilton’s position, the
depositions will be short.  
 
Alternatively, Hilton requests that the court shift Hilton’s
fees and costs incurred in defending this matter or to award fees and costs if
(and when) discovery again confirms there is no basis for jurisdiction over
Hilton. 
   
C.    
Court’s Ruling 
 
As stated herein, as well as in the court’s August 29, 2024,
order, Plaintiff is entitled to discovery. 
Hilton does not offer any objections specific to Plaintiff’s proposed
discovery.  The court finds the plan may go forward.  As to Hilton’s request for shifting fees and
costs or an award for costs, Hilton is directed to bring the request as a
noticed motion if Hilton obtains a favorable ruling on its motion to quash. 
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s discovery plan is approved.  
 
The Status Conference re: Jurisdictional Discovery is
CONTINUED to December 6, 2024.   
 
Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.’s Motion to Quash
Service of Summons is CONTINUED to December 6, 2024.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   October 4, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            