


[1] The court thanks the parties for these
additional efforts. 


[2] The court recognizes that the FACC
alleged and the Court of Appeal addressed another series of defamatory
statements: Cartwright and Esquenazi’s message sent through Slack channels with
other Lab Zero employees.  The court
notes, however, that the moving papers do not sufficiently address the Slack
messages.  The absence of argument on the
Slack message is construed as an abandonment of the claims following remand or,
alternatively, a failure of the moving party to meet its burden to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing on these allegations.


[3] Because the parties’ pleadings
begin by addressing the Tenth Cause of Action instead of the Ninth, the court follows
suit and addresses the merits of the defamation claim first. 
 


[4] Cross-Defendants also argue the
defamation claim should be stricken as to Future Club because Lab Zero has
likewise failed to identify any defamatory statement made by Future Club.  The court need not resolve this argument
because Lab Zero does not assert a defamation claim against Future Club.  (See FACC, p. 21.)


[5] The parties grapple over whether
the August 24 Tweet actually affected Lab Zero’s business to its disadvantage
by resulting in companies cancelling their contracts with Lab Zero.  The court looks at whether the alleged
defamatory statements have a natural tendency to affect the corporation.  They do. 
And, of course, Lab Zero takes this position elsewhere in its arguments.
In any event, neither party cites authority for the proposition that actual
disadvantage must have resulted from the alleged defamatory statements. 


[6] Cartwright provides few details on
making complaints to Zaimont about his conduct. 
Nevertheless, Zaimont does not dispute Cartwright’s version of events.


[7] Slack is a platform commonly used
for internal work communication.


[8] Lab Zero alleges that Esquenazi
and Future Club conspired with Cartwright to draft the August 24 Tweet.  To support the assertion, Lab Zero requests
leave to conduct discovery.  However, Lab
Zero’s request is untimely.  Lab Zero had
the opportunity to seek discovery prior to the court’s March 2022 hearing.  Moreover, as discussed above, the court finds
Lab Zero’s defamation claim lacks minimal merit.     


[9]  With
respect to the Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relationships, Lab Zero, in its Opposition on page 14, describes the
“sequence of events.”       


[10] The Court of Appeal likewise treated
the intentional interference claims as mixed causes of action.  (See Lab Zero, Inc. v. Cartwright,
2023 WL 2767921, at *11.)
 


[11] The language of the cause of action
itself complicates this analysis because the Eighth Cause of Action
incorporates all of the prior paragraphs of the complaint and identifies very
few facts in support of the cause of action. The operative paragraph reads: Cross-Defendants
knew of the contracts, and disrupted or prevented performance of the contracts.
Cross-Defendants engaged in a scheme, devise, and plan to dismantle and destroy
Lab Zero and start a new, competing company, namely, Future Club. Integral to
this plan was the disruption, cancellation, and prevention of Lab Zero’s
contracts with publishers or developers.”  (FACC,
¶ 110.) 


[12] 
Cross-Defendants’ argue these companies’ press releases do not
specifically refer to Cartwright’s Tweet. 
For example, Autumn Games, and
Hidden Variable issued a public statement noting that “[a] number of Lab Zero
Games employees have decided to leave the company as a result of actions by
Mike Zaimont and a series of reported incidents that involved Mike over the
years” and stating that they would no longer be working with Lab Zero because
“Autumn Games and Hidden Variable Studios fully support those employees who
have chosen to stand by their principles and leave in light of that behavior,
and we find their allegations to be credible.” 
(Zaimont Decl., Ex. 25.)  Arc
System Works stated it was not working with Zaimont “following allegations of
abusive and inappropriate behavior brought against him by members of his former
studio, Lab Zero Games.”  (Zaimont Decl.,
Ex. 30.)  These statements,
however, do not exclude Cartwright’s Tweet. 
A fair inference to be drawn is that Cartwright’s Tweet, recitation of
events, and decision to leave Lab Zero played a part in the various companies’
decisions to sever their relationship with Lab Zero.  


[13] Because of the way Lab Zero pled its Eighth Cause of Action, the court cannot tell if Lab Zero
intends to argue defamation as part of the scheme, devise, plan to interfere
with contractual relationships.  If so,
the court precludes it and grants the motion to strike reference to defamation
in support of its Eighth Cause of Action. 
 


[14] To the extent the UCL claim is
based on the Eighth Cause of Action for defamation, those allegations are
stricken.  The Tweet, however, is not
stricken. 


[15] To the extent Lab Zero seeks leave
to amend, the request is DENIED.  (See Schaffer
v. City & Cnty. of S.F. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 992, 1005 [a plaintiff “cannot
escape the anti-SLAPP procedures by simply amending her complaint”]; Simmons
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073-74 [“Allowing a SLAPP
plaintiff leave to amend the complaint once the court finds the prima facie
showing has been met [by defendant] would completely undermine the statute by
providing the pleader a ready escape from section 425.16’s quick dismissal
remedy.”]; Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240,
1263 [“Nor can Jackson amend her complaint to cure the deficiency”].)

