 Case Number:  23STCV20613    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
4, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE:  June 9, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         John M.E.L. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20613
 





















 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET
ONE, FROM DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, FROM
DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
John M.E.L. Doe 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
childhood sexual abuse case.  On August 23,
2023, Plaintiff, John M.E.L. Doe, initiated this action against Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) for (1) Negligence and (2) Negligent Failure
to Warn, Train, or Educate.  The
operative pleading is the First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
            In relevant
part, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was sexually abused by Vance Miller (Miller)
from 1998 to 2002 while he was a student at Hamilton Music Academy.  Miller was an employee of the LAUSD.  The Complaint further alleges that LAUSD had
notice of Miller’s misconduct.
 
            On July 15,
2024, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel Defendant LAUSD’s further
responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions. At bottom,
Plaintiff seeks production of yearbooks and the identities and corresponding contact
information for students who were taught by Miller.  
 
            On August
13, 2024, the parties participated in an informal discovery conference (IDC)
with the court regarding this discovery dispute.  The issues were not resolved.  The parties were directed to meet and confer;
counsel for Plaintiff was ordered to prepare and submit a Notice of Outcome.  The court set a supplemental briefing
schedule.  
            
             On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice
of Outcome.  Many of the discovery issues
have been resolved.  The remaining issues
are twofold: (1) whether LAUSD should be ordered to produce yearbooks to
Plaintiff for years predating the 1996-1997 school year, and (2) whether LAUSD
should be ordered to disclose the contact information of the students in those
yearbooks.
 
            The parties
timely filed supplemental briefing.  The
court rules as follows. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
            
Under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and
2031.310, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories and
requests for production of documents¿where an answer to the requests are evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ A motion
to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c);
2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            The parties conflate the remaining
issue as singular.  However, the discovery
dispute involves two discovery sets (special interrogatories and production
requests) which seek slightly different information, i.e., yearbooks and
contact information of individuals in the yearbooks.  Thus, as stated above, the court views the discovery
dispute to encompass two issues: (1) whether LAUSD should be ordered to produce
yearbooks to Plaintiff for years predating the 1996-1997 school year, and (2)
whether LAUSD should be ordered to disclose the contact information of the
students in those yearbooks. 
 
Plaintiff argues
the yearbooks are relevant to identifying students who Miller had access to,
prior to his abuse of Plaintiff, and who may be firsthand witnesses of Miller’s
conduct and/or complained of his conduct.  The information is also relevant to show LAUSD
knew or had reason to know of Miller’s abuse of children prior to Miler’s abuse
of Plaintiff because some of these student may have reported Miller’s abuse.  
 
LAUSD resists the
motions based on the unidentified students’ right to privacy. Citing the Family
Educational Rights to Privacy Act (FERPA), the California Education Code Sections
49060, 49075, and 34 Code of Federal Regulations Section 99.1, LAUSD argues these
state and federal laws prohibit disclosure of a student/minor’s educational
records unless a parent or student provides written consent.  The information can be disclosed, as LAUSD points
out, upon court order and providing the students whose records are being sought
with notice and an opportunity to object to the disclosure.  LAUSD contends providing such notice is oppressive
and over burdensome because it would require LAUSD to notify hundreds of
individuals.  
 
As to the
production of yearbooks predating the 1997-1997 school year, the court finds LAUSD
must produce yearbooks predating 1996-1997. 
LAUSD’s arguments regarding the privacy rights of former students’
contact information do not apply where students have consented to the
publishing of their respective images and names in a yearbook.  LAUSD does not identify any other reason why
a yearbook itself should not be produced. 
Although not discussed by the parties, the court further finds a
limitation of five years predating the 1996-1997 school year is a reasonable
limitation on the production.
 
As to the
disclosure of the contact information for students in the aforementioned year
books, LAUSD argues successfully that it would be required to notify
potentially hundreds of individuals about the potential disclosure of
information.  However, Plaintiff does not
establish a nexus between Miller and any specific individuals or group of
individuals to justify such a broad request. 
The court finds the request is overly broad and burdensome.  Plaintiff may conduct its own investigation
first to narrow the field (e.g., identify students who may have witnessed
Miller’s conduct or complained of Miller’s conduct) and may thereafter revisit
the issue with the court if necessary.  Moreover,
the court has grave concerns that any address of students from the 1990’s is too
old to be of any use and would involve a waste of time and effort.  Absent a further showing by Plaintiff, Defendants
objection is well taken. 
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.  Defendant LAUSD is ordered to produce yearbooks
up to five years predating the 1996-1997 school year within 30 days of this
order.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 4, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            