 Case Number:  22BBCV0073728    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEESI.               
INTRODUCTION
On October 11, 2022, Plaintiff
Kevin Howe (“Howe”) filed an action against Defendant Raul Ramirez (“Ramirez”)
for (1) breach of contract, (2) unjust enrichment, and (3) common count for
money had and received.  Plaintiff alleges
that the parties entered into two written agreements, “First Ramirez Note” and
“Second Ramirez Note,” whereby Defendant borrowed money from Plaintiff with the
promise to repay the amounts borrowed along with 10% interest and additional
funds.  Defendant breached the agreements
by failing to pay Plaintiff the total balance due in a timely manner.
On January 12, 2023, pursuant to Plaintiff’s
request, the Court dismissed the entire action without prejudice.
On April 30, 2024, the Court vacated
the dismissal entered on January 12, 2023, and entered judgment in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $75,000 pursuant to a
Settlement Agreement entered into by the parties.
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Memorandum of Costs and on May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed proof of serving the
Notice of Entry of Judgment on Defendant.
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Attorney’s Fees (“Motion”).  No opposition has been filed.
The motion is granted.
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
Civil Code section 1717 states in
pertinent part: “[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract specifically
provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce¿that
contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing
party, then the party who is determined to be the¿party¿prevailing¿on the contract, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees in addition to¿other¿costs.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a)).
A prevailing
party in a lawsuit includes “the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in
whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor
defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who
do not recover any relief against that defendant.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., §1032, subd.
(a)(4).)
A prevailing
party in entitled to recover costs, including attorney’s fees, as a matter of
right.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
1032, subd. (a)(4), 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5.) 
Furthermore, attorney’s fees are allowable as costs when authorized by contract,
statute, or law.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
The calculation of attorney’s fees in
California begins with the “lodestar” method – multiplying the number of hours
reasonably expended by the reasonable hourly rate.  A computation of time spent on a case and the
reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a determination of an
appropriate attorneys’ fee award.  The
lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)  Such an approach anchors the trial court’s
analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney’s services,
ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary.  (Id.
at p. 48, fn. 23.)  After the trial court
has performed the lodestar calculations, it shall consider whether the total
award so calculated under all of the circumstances of the case is more than a
reasonable amount and, if so, shall reduce the section 1717 award so that it is
a reasonable figure.  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095-1096.)
As explained in Graciano v. Robinson Ford Sales, Inc.:
“[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for comparable legal services in the
community; it may be adjusted by the court based on factors including, as
relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award. [Citation.]  The
purpose of such adjustment is to fix a fee at the fair market value for the
particular action. In effect, the court determines, retrospectively, whether
the litigation involved a contingent risk or required extraordinary legal skill
justifying augmentation of the unadorned lodestar in order to approximate the
fair market rate for such services. . . . This approach anchors the trial
court's analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney's
services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary.” [Internal
citations and internal quotation marks omitted.]
((2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 154.)  “It is well established that the
determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the
discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence
of an abuse of discretion. 
[Citations.]  The value of legal
services performed in a case is a matter in which the trial court has its own
expertise. . . . The trial court makes its determination after consideration of
a number of factors, including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty,
the amount involved, the skill required in its handling, the skill employed,
the attention given, the success or failure, and other circumstances in the
case.  [Citations.]”  (Melnyk
v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623-624.)
No specific findings reflecting the
court’s calculations are required.  The
record need only show that the attorney fees were awarded according to the
“lodestar” or “touchstone” approach.  The
court’s focus in evaluating the facts should be to provide a fee award
reasonably designed to completely compensate attorneys for the services
provided.  The starting point for this
determination is the attorney’s time records. 
(Horsford v. Board of Trustees of
Calif. State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 395-397 [verified time
records entitled to credence absent clear indication they are erroneous].)  However, California case law permits fee
awards in the absence of detailed time sheets.  (Sommers
v. Erb (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1644,
1651; Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1810; Nightingale v.
Hyundai Motor America (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 99, 103.)  An experienced trial judge is in a position
to assess the value of the professional services rendered in his or her
court.  (Ibid.; Serrano, 20 Cal.3d
25 at 49.)
III.         
ANALYSIS
            Plaintiff moves for a court order determining
that he is the prevailing party in the instant action and the Settlement
Agreement authorizes an award of attorney’s fees. Moreover, Plaintiff seeks attorney’s
fees in the amount of $5,989.50 for 12.1 hours of attorney time in enforcing
the Settlement Agreement.
            According to Plaintiff, the parties
settled the instant dispute in December 2022. 
(Green Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)  The
Settlement Agreement contained the following provision: “In the event of any
Party’s breach of this Agreement, any other Party will be entitled to
reasonably [sic] attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with the
enforcement of this Agreement.”  (Ibid.)  Defendant breached the Agreement by failing
to make payments toward the settlement amount, thus, Plaintiff filed a Motion
to Enforce Settlement.  (Howe Decl. ¶ 3.)  On April 30, 2024, the Court entered judgment
in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement.
            Plaintiff argues that he is entitled
to an award of attorney’s fees because the Settlement Agreement authorized
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs to be awarded to the non-breaching party
and he prevailed in enforcing the Settlement Agreement following Defendant’s
breach.  Plaintiff also argues that the
attorney’s fees requested are reasonable because they were actually charged by
Plaintiff’s counsel to enforce the Settlement Agreement and the time spent was
necessary, as demonstrated in the billing spreadsheet filed with the
Declaration of Abraham L. Niman.  (Niman
Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. 2.)
            The Court finds that judgment was
entered in favor of Plaintiff and thus, Plaintiff is the prevailing party in
the instant action.  Moreover, the
Settlement Agreement did authorize an award of attorney’s fees and costs.  Having reviewed the billing spreadsheet
presented by Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court finds the billing rate and time
spent in enforcing the Settlement Agreement to be reasonable.
            Thus, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees in the amount of $5,989.50.
IV.         
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff Kevin
Howe’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in the amount of $5,989.50.  
            
Dated:  September 18, 2024                           
                                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES    JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                               