 Case Number:  22AHCV01035    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P [Tentative] Order Granting Motion to Be Relieved as CounselI.               
Background
This
action alleges civil rights and breach of contract claims stemming from the
lease of a vehicle from Defendant California Auto Resources Service, Inc.
(“CARS”).  Plaintiff Boxiang Liu (“Liu”)
alleges that he arranged for the lease of a vehicle, to be used during a
planned three-month stay in California with his pregnant wife.  Liu alleges that he made payments to the
WeChat account of Defendant Boan “Andy” Yan (“Yan”), an employee of CARS, to
reserve the vehicle.  Upon arriving and
taking delivery, Liu discovered defects and mechanical problems with the
vehicle and notified CARS.  Liu
negotiated with Yan via WeChat for return of the vehicle and refund of the
payment, yet he never received the refund. 
Moreover, during discussions, Yan used rude and vulgar language toward
Liu, reflecting animus based on his gender identity and gender expression, and
threatened to beat up Plaintiff Chengguang Wu, Liu’s agent.
Based
on these allegations, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges the
following causes of action: (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (2) violation
of the Ralph Civil Rights Act, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
and (4) breach of contract.  On June 15,
2023, Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add Defendant Fengjiao Gao as Doe 1.
On
August 16, 2024, Jeffrey C.P. Wang, Michael G. York, Kathleen E. Alparce,
Jessica A. Crabbe, and WHGC, P.L.C. filed the instant Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel (“Motion”).  No opposition has
been filed.
II.            
Legal
Standard
¿Code of Civil Procedure,
section 284 states that “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time
before or after judgment or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the
consent of both client and attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the
application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)  The
withdrawal request may be denied if it would cause an injustice or undue delay
in proceeding; but the court's discretion in this area is one to be exercised
reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)
In
making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with
procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory
forms:
1.     Notice
of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client –
(MC-051);
2.     Declaration
“stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the motion was brought (MC-052);
3.     Proposed
Order (MC-053).
(Ibid.)  The forms must be timely filed and served on all
parties who have appeared in the case.  (Ibid.)  If these documents are served on the client
by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address where
client was served is “the current residence or business address of the client”
or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1).)
III.          
Discussion

Counsel Jeffrey C.P. Wang,
Michael G. York, Kathleen E. Alparce, Jessica A. Crabbe, and WHGC, P.L.C. have properly filed a Notice of
Motion and Motion (MC-051).  They have
also filed a Declaration in Support of the Motion (MC-052) explaining that:
a)
Client has breached a material term of an agreement with, or obligation to
attorney relating to the representation, and attorney has given client a
reasonable warning after the breach that attorney will withdraw unless client
fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation. (Rules and Prof. Conduct,
Rule 1.16(b)(5).)
b)
By other conduct, the failure to cooperate, it has been rendered unreasonably
difficult for attorney to carry out employment effectively.  (Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.16(b)(4).)
(MC-052 ¶ 2.) 
Counsel have confirmed Defendant’s address within the past 30 days by email.
 (Id. at ¶ 3b(1)(a).)  They
have also filed a Proposed Order, Form MC-053.
All
documents were served on Defendant and Plaintiffs by electronic service and
mail.  (MC-051, p. 3; MC-052, p. 3;
MC-053, p. 3.)
Given
that Counsel have complied with all of the requirements for the Motion
and there is no showing that
withdrawal would cause injustice or undue delay in the proceedings, the Court
grants the Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel.
The Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel as to Defendant California Auto Resources Services,
Inc., filed by Jeffrey C.P. Wang, Michael G. York, Kathleen E. Alparce, Jessica
A. Crabbe, and WHGC, P.L.C. is GRANTED.“After the order is signed, a copy of the
signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared
in the case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(e).)  The Order on this
Motion will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed
order on Plaintiff has been filed with the court.” (Ibid.)Dated: September 18, 2024        JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 