 Case Number:  23AHCV01728    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE AND ENTER ANOTHER AND
DIFFERENT JUDGMENTI.               
INTRODUCTION
            On
July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Deeson Pan (“Plaintiff” or “Pan”), in propria persona,
filed an action against Defendant Xuesong Guan (“Defendant” or “Guan”) and Does
1 through 10 for (1) breach of contract, (2) constructive fraud, (3) negligent
misrepresentation of facts, (4) unfair business practice in violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., and (5) unfair
competition law, Business and Professions Code section 17204.  The action arises out of an alleged dispute
related to the property located at 1420 S. Del Mar Ave, Unit #6, San Gabriel,
California 91776.  Plaintiff alleges that
he is the rightful owner of the property, and that Defendant has rented the
property and been collecting and retaining rent from tenants residing at the
property without Plaintiff’s approval.
On August 24,
2023, Defendant, in propria persona, filed an Answer to the Complaint.  After retaining counsel, on June 4, 2024,
Defendant filed an Amended Answer with the Court’s approval.
On July 15, 2024,
the Court granted Defendant’s Motion to Have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted
as to Plaintiff, filed on April 29, 2024. 
The Court found that Defendant had served Plaintiff with Requests for Admission
on January 23, 2024, but Plaintiff failed to serve any responses.  Thus, the Court granted the Motion and
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,500.
On August 9, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Motion for Sanctions.
On the same day,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Set Aside and Vacate and Enter Another and
Different Judgment in response to the Court’s July 15, 2024, order.  Defendant filed an Opposition on August 29,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a Reply on September 12, 2024.
The Motion is
denied.
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
According to Code
of Civil Procedure section 663,
A judgment or decree, when based upon a
decision by the court, or the special verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of
the party aggrieved, be set aside and vacated by the same court, and another
and different judgment entered, for either of the following causes, materially
affecting the substantial rights of the party and entitling the party to a
different judgment:
1.     Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for
the decision, not consistent with or not supported by the facts; and in such
case when the judgment is set aside, the statement of decision shall be amended
and corrected.
2.    
A
judgment or decree not consistent with or not supported by the special verdict.
III.          
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff moves for an order to set aside and vacate the judgment entered
on July 15, 2024, to amend and correct the statement of decision filed on July
24, 2024, and to enter another and different judgment, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 663.  Plaintiff
argues that the court’s decision is legally incorrect and/or erroneous and not
supported by the facts, and these errors have materially affected Plaintiff’s
substantial rights.
The Court notes that Plaintiff has not filed a sworn declaration
attesting to the facts presented in the Amended Memorandum of Points and
Authorities or authenticating the exhibits filed along with the Motion.
In the Memorandum, Plaintiff argues that on February 20, 2024, he
submitted responses to the Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) served by Defendant,
two days before the deadline.  Plaintiff
has attached a copy of the responses with a proof of service indicating that
the responses were served by mail and email on Defendant at 4907 Willmonte Ave,
Temple City, California 91780, on February 20, 2024.  Despite receiving the responses prior to the
deadline, Defendant filed a Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted.  Plaintiff states that as a self-represented
litigant navigating the complexities of the legal process, he was not aware of
the need to verify the responses. 
Defendant’s attorney had a professional obligation to request verified
responses or file a motion to compel allowing Plaintiff an opportunity to
correct the mistake.  Defendant’s
“decision to file a Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted was
premature and unnecessarily punitive, disregarding the principles of fairness
and due process.”  (Amended Mem. p. 2.)
Plaintiff argues that the Court’s judgment should be set aside because
the Court incorrectly found that Plaintiff had failed to respond to the RFAs in
a timely manner.  The Court failed to
account for Plaintiff’s status as a self-represented litigant and inadvertent
omission of the verification.  The Court
prematurely granted the Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted without considering a less
severe alternative, allowing Plaintiff an opportunity to correct the
verification error.  Thus, the Court’s
decision was legally erroneous and inconsistent with principles of
fairness.  Finally, the Court erroneously
imposed sanctions as Plaintiff’s omission was unintentional and could have been
cured if provided the opportunity.
            In opposition, Defendant presents
the following evidence.  Defendant’s
former counsel served Plaintiff with RFAs on January 23, 2024.  (Andion Decl. ¶ 3.)  Former counsel was substituted out on
February 7, 2024, and new counsel was substituted in on February 27, 2024.  (Ibid.)  After being retained, new counsel, James
Andion, learned that Plaintiff had not responded to the RFAs and filed the Motion
to Have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted.  (Id. ¶¶ 3-4.)  Plaintiff did not respond to the motion and
at the hearing on July 15, 2024, he did not raise the claim that he had served
the responses, thus, the Court granted the Motion.  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  On August 27, 2024, Defendant discovered that
she had received an email from Plaintiff on February 20, 2024, with PDF files containing
discovery responses.  (Id. ¶
8.)  The responses were not verified and
only contained objections, and the proof of service indicated that the
responses had also been mailed to an address that was not Defendant’s address
of record.  (Id. at ¶¶ 8-9.)  Defendant denies that she received these
responses by mail.  (Ibid.)
            Defendant also requests attorney’s
fees and costs in the amount of $1,500 for expenses incurred in responding to
the instant Motion and appearing at the hearing.  (Andion Decl. ¶ 11.)
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
failure to serve compliant responses was due to his own neglect.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not file an
opposition or raise any arguments at the hearing on July 15, 2024.  If Plaintiff had indeed intended to comply
with his discovery obligations, he would have responded to the motion and
served another copy of his discovery responses. 
Finally, Defendant argues that setting aside the Court’s July 15, 2024,
order would unfairly prejudice Defendant by reopening issues that would lead to
increased litigation costs, prolonged resolution of the case, and impairment of
the discovery proceedings.
            In his Reply, Plaintiff argues that
objections to discovery do not need to be verified.  Moreover, Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s
responses prior to retaining new counsel and instead of filing a motion to
provide verified responses, Defendant deceived the Court by stating that she
did not receive any responses.  Plaintiff
also argues that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 473, subdivision
(a), and 576, the Court may make amendments in the furtherance of justice.  Defendant’s admission that she received the
responses reflects malice and shows that she intentionally sought to sanction
Plaintiff.
The Court makes the following findings.
First, Plaintiff’s motion is not supported by any evidence as he has not
filed a sworn declaration attesting to the facts presented in the Amended Memorandum
of Points and Authorities or authenticating the exhibits filed along with the
Motion.
Second, Plaintiff improperly presents new legal arguments in the Reply,
claiming that the Court should vacate the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 473, subdivision (a), and 576.  “Points raised for the first time in a reply
brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.”  (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453.)
Third, given that the responses to the RFAs only contained objections,
they did not need to be verified pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.240, subdivision (a).
Fourth, if the Court were to consider the exhibits filed by Plaintiff, it
would be clear that Plaintiff did not properly serve the responses to the
RFAs.  Plaintiff sent the responses
directly to Defendant by email and by mail to 4907 Willmonte Ave, Temple City,
CA 91780.  However, between February 7,
2024, and February 27, 2024, Defendant was self-represented, and the
Substitution of Attorney form indicates that Defendant’s address was 1420 S.
Del Mar, San Gabriel, CA 91776.  Furthermore,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, a self-represented party may only be served
by electronic transmission after expressly consenting to receive service by
email.  Plaintiff has not presented any
evidence that Defendant had consented to service by email.
Fifth, the Court notes that a party moving to deem RFAs admitted is under
no obligation to meet and confer regarding missing or defective responses and
Plaintiff has not cited any authority to show otherwise.  (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd.
(b).)
            Thus, Plaintiff’s argument that
Defendant proceeded to file the motion to deem requests for admission admitted,
despite receiving responses, is without merit. 
Plaintiff had an opportunity to file an opposition to the motion
demonstrating that he acted with substantial justification in failing to
properly serve the discovery responses, but despite being aware of the Motion
and attending the hearing, Plaintiff did not raise any opposing arguments.  Finally, as to Plaintiff’s argument that the
Court failed to account for Plaintiff’s self-represented status, the Court reminds
Plaintiff of the following well-established principle of law:
"Under the law one may be his own attorney if he wants to be. A
layman with resources who insists upon exercising the privilege of representing
himself must expect and receive the same treatment as if represented by an
attorney -- no different, no better, no worse."
Monastero v. Los
Angeles Transit Co. (1955) 131
Cal. App. 2d 156.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not presented sufficient evidence to
show that there was an “incorrect or erroneous legal basis” for the Court’s ruling
or that the ruling was “not consistent with or not supported by the
facts.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 663.)  Plaintiff’s Motion is denied.
Furthermore, the Court does not find that the instant Motion was filed in
bad faith or with the intention to cause delay and denies Defendant’s request
for additional sanctions against Plaintiff.
IV.          
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Deeson Pan’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate and Enter
Another and Different Judgment is
DENIED.
 
Dated:  September 18, 2024                                    
                                                                                                        JARED D. MOSES     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                              