  Case Number:  21STCV02758    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  B KARI ACOSTA V. HOSSEIN NOURI, ET
AL.
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
 
Date of Hearing:          July 3, 2024                             Trial
Date:       N/A
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         21STCV02758
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
The Hertz Corporation (“Moving Defendant”) 
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff
Kari Acosta 
 
RELEVANT BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an automobile
accident which occurred on January 23, 2019. On January 22, 2021, Plaintiff
Kari Acosta (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Negligence against Defendants
Hossein Nouri, Hertz Corporation, Hertz Vehicle LLC (collectively, the
“Defendants”), and Does 1-50, inclusive. 
 
 
On July 8, 2022, the Court held the
Final Status Conference (“FSC”), but none of the parties appeared at the
hearing. Therefore, the Court placed the FSC off-calendar and kept the non-jury
trial date of July 22, 2022.
 
On July 22, 2022, the Court held the
non-jury trial, but Plaintiff did not make an appearance. Only defense counsel
made a special appearance. Therefore, the Court ordered the Complaint dismissed
without prejudice. The Court also vacated the Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal
set for January 19, 2024. 
 
On September 15, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the July 22, 2022 dismissal and the
Court reinstated the action. 
 
Defendants Hertz Corporation and Hertz
Vehicle LLC were served with the summons, complaint, and statement of damages
on December 1, 2022 via personal service. (See 12/12/22 Proofs of Service; see
also 02/09/24 Proofs of Service.) 
 
On February 9, 2024, default was
entered against Defendants Hertz Vehicle LLC and Hertz Corporation.  
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendant The
Hertz Corporation (erroneously named as both Hertz Corporation and Hertz
Vehicle LLC) (“Moving Defendant”) filed a Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
On March 18, 2024, after hearing oral
argument and taking the matter under submission, the Court overruled the
demurrer without prejudice on the grounds that the entry of default against
Moving Defendant cut off its right to appear in the action until the default is
set aside. (03/18/24 Minute Order.) 
 
On April 18, 2024, Moving Defendant
filed the instant Motion to Set Aside Default (the “Motion”). The Motion is
made on the following grounds: (1) the default should be set aside on the
grounds of mistake and excusable neglect; and (2) the default should be set
aside because it fails to contain a required statement of damages. The Motion
was served on Plaintiff on April 19, 2024. 
 
On June 5, 2024, on the Court’s own
motion, the hearing on the Motion was continued to July 3, 2024 in Department B
at Van Nuys Courthouse East. The Clerk mailed notice of the continued hearing
date to Plaintiff’s counsel. (See 06/05/24 Certificate of Mailing.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, this action was
reassigned from the Honorable Michelle C. Kim to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz
sitting in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East effective June 24, 2024. 
 
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed and
served her opposition to the Motion. The opposition should have been filed and
served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).) Although
filed and served late, the Court exercises its discretion and will consider the
untimely filed opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).)
 
As of June 28, 2024, no reply brief has
been filed. The Court assumes that the lack of a reply brief is due to the untimely
filing and service of Plaintiff’s opposition brief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Motion to
Set Aside Default (the “Motion”) is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under CCP §
473(b) is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it
is discretionary. (Ibid.) “Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding was taken.” (Ibid.) “It is well
settled that appellate courts have always been and are favorably disposed
toward such action upon the part of the trial courts as will permit, rather
than prevent, the adjudication of legal controversies upon their merits.” (Benjamin
v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1948) 31 Cal.2d 523, 525.)
“The
court may set aside a void default judgment at any time under section 473,
subdivision (d).” (Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 749.) “In
addition, the court has inherent equitable power to set aside a default
judgment at any time for extrinsic fraud or mistake.” (Ibid.) “The court may grant
relief under its inherent equity power if, because of the fraud of his
opponent, the aggrieved party was prevented from presenting his claim or
defense to the court.” (Id. at p. 750, citations omitted.) “Fraud is intrinsic and not a valid
ground for setting aside a judgment when the party has been given notice of the
action and has had an opportunity to present his case and to protect himself
from any mistake or fraud of his adversary, but has unreasonably neglected to
do so.” (Ibid.) 
A
party seeking equitable relief on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or mistake
must show the following three elements: (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a
satisfactory excuse for not presenting the defense in the first place; and (3)
diligence in seeking to set aside the default judgment once discovered. (Ibid.) Extrinsic mistake “is
not so much the fraud or other misconduct of one of the parties as it is the
excusable neglect of the defaulting party to appear and present his claim or
defense. If that neglect results in an unjust judgment, without a fair
adversary hearing, the basis for equitable relief on the ground of extrinsic
mistake is present.” (Mechling v. Asbestos Defendants (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
1241, 1246.) “When a default judgment has been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional
circumstances.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“When
evaluating a motion to set aside a default judgment on equitable grounds, the
court must weigh the reasonableness of the conduct of the moving party in light
of the extent of the prejudice to the responding party.” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th
127, 139, internal quotations omitted.) Where there is lack of prejudice to the
opposing party, such factor weighs in favor of setting aside default and
default judgment. (Gray v. Lawlor (1907) 151 Cal. 352, 357.) 
Evidence in Support of
the Motion
In support of the
Motion, counsel for Moving Defendant, Christopher J. Feasel (“Feasel”),
provides a declaration. Counsel declares that on January 17 and January 29,
2024, he sent emails to Plaintiff’s counsel informing him that Moving Defendant
intended to demur to the Complaint and providing the basis for the demurrer.
(Feasel Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) Counsel also left a voicemail for Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Id.) Based on the available minute entries, Mr. Feasel
reasonably believed that, as of February 15, 2024, no default judgment had been
entered against Moving Defendant. (Id., ¶ 3.) Additionally, he received
no notice from Plaintiff’s counsel that he was filing or continuing to seek a
default judgment against Moving Defenant prior to his filing of February 8, 2024,
despite contacting his office three times prior to that date. (Id.) Mr.
Feasel therefore filed Moving Defendant’s demurrer unaware that the default was
actually granted on February 9, 2024. (Id.; Ex. B.) Mr. Feasel states
that no statement of damages has ever been delivered to Defendant Hertz or
contained in any pleadings. (Id., ¶ 5.) 
Evidence in Opposition
to the Motion 
Plaintiff’s counsel, D.
Hess Panah (“Panah”), provides a declaration in opposition to the Motion. The
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel states that the statement of damages was
served on Moving Defendant on December 1, 2022. (Panah Decl., p. 6:21-22.) The
adjuster for Moving Defendant was alerted that a default was pending against
them. (Id., p. 6:25-27.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that Moving
Defendant’s counsel has not stated a basis of fault, inadvertence, or mistake
on their part in not providing an answer. (Id., at p. 6:23-24.)
Appropriateness of Setting
Aside the Default  
Moving Defendant moves to set aside the default under CCP
§ 473(b) and on equitable grounds. 
Initially, the Court finds that Moving Defendant has not
shown a basis to set aside the default on equitable grounds given that it has
not shown a meritorious defense, reasonable diligence, or a satisfactory excuse
for its failure to present a defense in the first place. 
The Court also rejects Moving Defendant’s contention that
Plaintiff failed to serve a statement of damages. Plaintiff filed two proofs of
service showing that Moving Defendant was served with the statement of damages.
“The filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the
service was proper.” (Floveyor Internat., Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 789, 795.) Moving Defendant has not sufficiently rebutted the
presumption that it was served with a statement of damages. 
Thus, the sole basis for Moving Defendant to set aside
the default is under CCP § 473(b). The Court finds that the Motion is timely
under CCP § 473(b). The Court finds that counsel does not attest to why Moving
Defendant did not file an answer or other responsive pleading even though
Moving Defendant was served with the summons and complaint on December 1, 2022.

However, given that Mr. Feasel did reach out to
Plaintiff’s counsel about the intent to demur prior to the entry of default, Mr.
Feasel states that he was unaware that Plaintiff was seeing a default, and that
default was entered. The Court therefore finds that Moving Defendant has made a
showing of mistake and excusable neglect by failing to timely file its
demurrer. The previously filed demurrer that Moving Defendant seeks to file in
connection with the instant motion is attached to the declaration of Mr. Feasel.

There is a preference for the adjudication of cases on
their merits pursuant to Benjamin v.
Dalmo Mfg. Co., supra,
31 Cal.2d 523, 525. Plaintiff does not state any prejudice that she will incur
if the default is set aside. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
the Motion. 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to Set Aside Default
filed by Defendant The Hertz Corporation is GRANTED.  Moving Defendant is ordered to file and serve
its proposed demurrer within 10 days of this Order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 