

Hearing Date:             May 21, 2024  
Case Name:                 Collins v. 1615 Cahuenga LLC,
et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV29581
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Arbitration
Moving
Party:             Defendant 1615 Cahuenga
LLC

Responding Party:      Unopposed 


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Court grants the
Motion to Compel Arbitration, and stays the case pending completion of the
arbitration
 

 
Background
 
This is an employment action for
wrongful termination, disability discrimination, and retaliation. On December
4, 2023, Plaintiff Marcus Collins (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants 1615 Cahuenga LLC dba Beauty & Essex Los Angeles, Tao Group
Inc., Tao Hospitality Group (“Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 30, alleging
Defendants are joint-employers of Plaintiff who wrongfully terminated him after
sustaining a work-related injury. 
 
Defendant 1615 Cahuenga LLC dba
Beauty & Essex Los Angeles (“Cahuenga”) moves to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims against it.
 
The arbitration agreement titled
“Dispute Resolution Procedure & Mutual Binding Arbitration Agreement” is
signed by Plaintiff and Defendant Cahuenga. The arbitration agreement also
contains Plaintiff’s initials on each page. The arbitration agreement states as
follows:
 
I hereby agree that any claims,
disputes or controversies arising between me and 1615 Cahuenga LLC [“the
Company”], which could give rise to a legal claim relating to my employment
with the Company or the termination thereof, including the interpretation or
application of this Dispute Resolution Procedure and Mutual Binding Arbitration
Agreement [“Agreement"|, shall be addressed in the following manner:
 
First, through good faith
negotiation between me and the Company.
 
Second, at the Company’s option,
through mediation administered by a mediator approved by me and the Company and
paid for by the Company.
 
And third, if still not resolved,
by binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act
administered by JAMS pursuant to
its Employment Arbitration Rules then in effect, and subject to JAMS Policy on
Employment Arbitration Minimum Standards of Procedural Fairness. Both
the Company and I shall be entitled
to adequate discovery prior to the arbitration as determinedby the arbitrator,
who shall be selected in accordance with the JAMS rules. Both the Companyand I
shall have the right to be represented. by counsel of our choice, and I will be
responsible for retaining my own attorney. I understand that copies of the JAMS
rules and policy are available to me at hitp://www.jamsadr.com and that a hard
copy is either attached to this Agreement or will be provided to me upon request
at any time. If for any reason JAMS is not available, the arbitration shall be
administered by ARC (Alternative Resolution Centers) pursuant to the rules of
AAA (American Arbitration Association) then in effect for employment disputes.
 
This Agreement Applies to
Both Me and the Company
 
I understand and agree that the
procedures outlined in this Agreement will be the exclusive means of redress
for any disputes relating to or arising from my employment with the Company,
whether such disputes are initiated by me or the Company, including disputes
over right provided by federal, state, or local statutes, regulations,
ordinances, and common law. The types of disputes covered by this agreement
that may apply to claims that I could bring include, but are not limited to,
claims involving laws prohibiting discrimination and unlawful harassment based
on any protected classification, such as Title VII, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the California Fair
Employment & Housing Act, and the California Labor Code. However, claims
prohibited by law to be arbitrated shall not be subject to this Agreement, including
but not limited to claims under California workers’ compensation laws.
 
I understand and agree that the
arbitration will take place in the county where I last worked for the Company,
unless another location is mutually agreed upon by me and the Company.
 
I acknowledge that an arbitration
does not involve a jury, and that I will not be entitled to a trial in court
with a jury. I agree that the arbitrator’s award will be final and binding on
both parties. I understand that each party must pay its own attorneys’ fees in
connection with the arbitration, and that the arbitrator may not award
attorneys’ fees unless the claims involve a contract or statute that allows for
attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party.
 
Each party will have the right to
request that the arbitrator issue a written decision that
memorializes the essential findings
of fact and law and the conclusions upon which the
arbitrator's decision and the
award, if any, are based. The Company will pay the fees for the arbitrator and
the use of the arbitration forum, except that I will contribute towards the
fees in an amount consistent with the amount I would have spent to pursue the
matter in court.
 
I understand that any dispute
arising out of this Agreement will be determined by the arbitrator. I further
understand that the Federal Arbitration Act shall apply when interpreting this Agreement.
 
If any parts of this Agreement are
found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and/or
enforceability of the remaining provisions will not be affected or impaired by
that determination. If any terms or sections of this Agreement are determined
to be unenforceable, they shall be modified so that the unenforceable term or
section is enforceable to the greatest extent possible.
…
 
Initiating the Dispute
Resolution Process
 
In accordance with this Agreement,
and to facilitate good faith negotiations to resolve it
promptly, I agree to give written
notice to Eileen Barron, Director of Human Resources, staling the nature of my
claim in sufficient detail to advise the Company of the nature of the dispute, including
the timeframe of the issues involved, the names of anyone at the company with knowledge
of the dispute, and my requested relief. ‘The Company agrees to do the same if
it initiates any claim against me. I understand that this information will be
used to investigate the claim, so that the Company and I can engage in good
faith negotiations to resolve it promptly in accordance with the three steps
outlined above.
 
Opt Out of Binding
Arbitration Agreement
 
I acknowledge that I have the
opportunity to opt-out of the arbitration portion of this Agreement. To do so,
I must provide notice in writing to Eileen Barron, Director of Human Resources
(either by email to eileen.barron@taogroup.com or otherwise delivered to the
Company’s address, which is currently located 1605 Cahuenga Blvd, Hollywood CA
90028) specifically indicating that I have concerns with the arbitration
portion of this Agreement, and do not wish to be bound by it. I understand that
such notice must be provided within thirty days (30 days) of my receipt of this
Agreement in order to opt-out. I further understand that if such notice is not
received then
I will be bound by the terms of
this Agreement whether I sign it or not. I understand that Eileen Barron (or
another designated representative) may contact me to discuss my concerns. And finally,
1 understand that | will not be penalized. for opting out of this Agreement.” 
 
(Yun Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
 
The Court finds that there is a
valid arbitration agreement and grants the motion. The case is stayed under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 authorizes the court to order arbitration of a case if it finds the
parties agreed to arbitrate that dispute “and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy.” Arbitration agreements should be
liberally interpreted and ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply
to the dispute in question.  (Weeks v.
Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353; Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)  “ ‘Doubts as to
whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration.  The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.’ ” (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State¿(2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)
 
            The party
moving to compel arbitration has the initial burden to (1) affirmatively admit
and allege the existence of a written arbitration agreement, and (2) prove the
existence of that agreement by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Rosenthal v. Great W. Fin. Sec. Corp, 14 Cal.
4th 394, 413.)  Once this is met, the
burden shifts to the responding party to prove that the agreement is
unenforceable by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Ibid.)  
 
 
Discussion
 
In establishing the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is sufficient for defendant to
provide a copy of the arbitration agreement or state the paragraph
verbatim.  (Baker v. Italian Maple
Holdings, LLC, 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160 (2017); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1330.)  Defendant Cahuenga produced the
arbitration agreement.  (Yun Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B.)
 
Defendant Cahuenga has sufficiently
demonstrated a valid agreement to arbitrate.
 
Here, the arbitration agreement
covers “any claims, disputes or controversies arising between me and 1615
Cahuenga LLC [“the Company”], which could give rise to a legal claim relating
to my employment with the Company or termination thereof…shall be addressed…by
binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act administered by JAMS
pursuant to its Employment Arbitration Rules then in effect, and subject to
JAMS Policy on Employment Arbitration Minimum Standards of Procedural
Fairness.” (Yun Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) The arbitration agreement
also covers “any disputes relating to or arising from my employment with
the Company, whether such disputes are initiated by me or the Company,
including disputes over right provided by federal, state, or local statutes,
regulations, ordinances, and common law…claims involving laws prohibiting
discrimination and unlawful harassment based on any protected classification,
such as Title VI, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, the California Fair Employment & Housing Act, and the
California Labor Code. However, claims prohibited by law to be arbitrated shall
not be subject to this Agreement, including but not limited to claims under
California workers’ compensation laws.” (Id.) Plaintiff’s
claims arise out his employment with Defendant Cahuenga and is therefore under
the arbitration agreement. (See Compl., ¶¶ 7-10, 12-24.)
 
Plaintiff has failed to raise any
arguments as to the unconscionability of the arbitration agreement.
 
Here, Plaintiff did
not file an opposition to the instant motion to compel arbitration.
Nonetheless, the Court will briefly address the issue of unconscionability. The
party resisting arbitration has the burden of proving unconscionability.  (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
There are
generally five minimum requirements for enforceable arbitration agreements: The
California Supreme Court set forth five minimum requirements for enforceable
arbitration agreements: (1) neutral arbitrator(s), (2) more than minimal
discovery, (3) a written award, (4) all types of relief that would otherwise be
available in court, and (5) no additional costs for the employee beyond what
the employee would incur if bringing the claim in court. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
The arbitration agreement states
that the arbitration proceeding would be “administered by JAMS pursuant to its
Employment Arbitration Rules then in effect, and subject to JAMS Policy on
Employment Arbitration Minimum Standards of Procedural Fairness. Both the
Company and I shall be entitled to adequate discovery prior to the arbitration
as determined
by the arbitrator, who shall be selected in accordance with
the JAMS rules. Both the Company
and I shall have the right to be represented. by counsel of
our choice, and I will be responsible for retaining my own attorney. I
understand that copies of the JAMS rules and policy are available to me at
hitp://www.jamsadr.com and that a hard copy is either attached to this
Agreement or will be provided to me upon request at any time. If for any reason
JAMS is not available, the arbitration shall be administered by ARC
(Alternative Resolution Centers) pursuant to the rules of AAA (American
Arbitration Association) then in effect for employment disputes.” (Yun Decl., ¶
4, Ex. B.) Furthermore, the arbitration agreement provides that each party will
be responsible for their own attorney’s fees; the arbitrator will issue a
written decision upon request by either party for which the award is based on;
Defendant Cahuenga will pay the fees for the arbitrator and use of the
arbitration forum; and Plaintiff will only contribute fees in an amount
consistent with what he would have paid to pursue the matter in court. (Id.)
As such, the arbitration agreement complies with the Armendariz factors
and therefore not unconscionable. 
Conclusion
            The Court grants the Motion to Compel Arbitration. The
Court stays this action pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure, Section
1281.4 pending arbitration pursuant to the arbitration agreement.
 