 Case Number:  23STCV25320    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Cross-Defendants
Lynberg & Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz’s Demurrer to First Amended
Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendants
Lynberg & Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz demur to the first amended
cross-complaint by cross-complainants Chateau Nob Hill Apartments, LP and
Global Integrity Realty Corporation.  
Requests
for Judicial Notice
            The demurring cross-defendants
request judicial notice of the initial cross-complaint and the court’s ruling
on State National Insurance Co.’s demurrer to it.  It is not necessary to take judicial notice
of records in this case.  The court denies
the request for judicial notice of exhibits A and B.
            Cross-complainants request judicial
notice of numerous documents, none of which are attached to the request or
cross-complainants’ other papers. 
Cross-complainants’ requests for judicial notice are denied.
            In the reply brief, the demurring
cross-defendants request judicial notice of the fact that Lynberg & Watkins
no longer represents cross-complainants in the underlying Baroudi
action.  Cross-complainants do not
dispute that fact.  This fact is subject
to judicial notice because it is the legal effect of court records.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  
The
court grants the request for judicial notice of the fact that Lynberg
& Watkins does not represent the insured cross-complainants in the Baroudi
action.
1st
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            Cross-complainants do not allege
sufficient facts for this cause of action. 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty
are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage
proximately caused by that breach.’ ”  (Knox
v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432.)
Cross-complainants
fail to allege any breach of fiduciary duty proximately caused damages to
them.  “[A] violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct does not, in and of itself, render an attorney liable for
damages.”  (Stanley v. Richmond
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1097; accord Yanez v. Plummer (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 180, 188.)  “For causation to
be established, there must be a nexus between the compensatory damages assessed
and the breaches of fiduciary duty.”  (Mosier
v. Southern California Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022,
1048.)  “ ‘A breach of a professional
duty causing only nominal damages, speculative harm, or the threat of future
harm that is not yet realized does not suffice.’ ”  (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)
This
action began as a coverage dispute between a liability insurer, plaintiff State
National Insurance Co., and its insured, defendants/cross-complainants Chateau
Nob Hill Apartments, LP and Global Integrity Realty Corporation.  The dispute concerns an action by Rajia Anne
Baroudi against defendants/cross-complainants. 
(FACC, ¶¶ 10-12.)  
The
first amended cross-complaint alleges Lynberg & Watkins, Webb, and Kurtz
breached duties to disclose a purported conflict of interest that makes the
insured entitled to independent counsel. 
(FACC, ¶¶ 12-18.)  But
cross-complainants allege they demanded State National Insurance Co. and
Lynberg & Watkins to make those disclosures.  (¶¶ 14-15.) 
In other words, they already know what they allege should have been
disclosed.  Cross-complainants do not
explain how they could have been damaged by Lynberg & Watkins’s failure to
disclose something they knew already.    
The
first amended cross-complaint also makes allegations that directly concern
damages.  It alleges, “On information and
belief, Chateau and Global allege that L&W have prejudiced Chateau’s and
Global’s defense of the Baroudi action, thereby depriving Chateau and Global of
procedural due process of law in that L&W did not discharge their duties of
undivided loyalty, confidentiality, and disclosure to Chateau and Global, so
that L&W are obligated to pay any award, judgment, or settlement of the
Baroudi action in any amount, at any time, on any grounds.”  (¶ 31.) 

Procedural
due process only applies to “state, not private action.”  (Garfinkle v. Superior Court (1978) 21
Cal.3d 268, 281.)  Lynberg & Watkins
cannot deprive cross-complainants of procedural due process of law.  Moreover, “any award, judgment, or settlement
of the Baroudi action” (FACC, ¶ 31) has not happened.  Those damages are only a “ ‘threat of future
harm that is not yet realized.’ ”  (Thomson
v. Canyon, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 604.)
The
first amended cross-complaint further alleges, “L&W’s breach of fiduciary
duties caused damage to Chateau and Global.” 
(FACC, ¶ 35.)  That conclusory
allegation need not be accepted as true on demurrer.  The first amended cross-complaint also
alleges, “L&W must disgorge costs and fees paid by State National in
violation of Rule 1.8.6.”  (¶ 36.)  Cross-complainants did not pay those
fees.  That cannot constitute damages
suffered by cross-complainants.  
Finally,
the first amended cross-complaint alleges, “If State National recovers
reimbursement of costs of defense it paid to L&W pursuant to Buss v.
Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 35 then L&W is obligated to pay to
Chateau and Global the full amount that State National recovers from Chateau
and Global.”  These damages are
speculative.  Framing them via an
“if/then” statement necessarily means they are hypothetical, not actual.  They have not happened yet.
4th
Cause of Action: Equitable Relief
            Cross-complainants do not allege
sufficient facts for this purported cause of action.  “Equitable relief” is a remedy, not a cause
of action.  (See Allen v. City of
Sacramento (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 41, 65 [cause of action labeled “injunctive
relief”].)  
Within this cause of
action, cross-complainants allege they are entitled to declaratory relief under
Code of Civil Procedure 1060.  (FACC, ¶¶
54-58.)  Declaratory relief
is available “in cases of actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties” under
a contract.  (CCP § 1060.)  Declaratory relief “operates prospectively” (Baldwin v. Marina City Properties, Inc.
(1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 393, 407) and requires “a probable future controversy”
between the parties (Reiner v. Danial (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 682,
688).  
The fourth cause of action seeks five
declarations.  The first four are: (1) “a
declaration that State National’s obligation to pay fees to the independent
counsel selected by Chateau and Global is not limited to the rates which are
actually paid by State National as set forth in Civil Code § 2860” (FACC, ¶ 54);
(2) “a declaration that State National may not recover reimbursement from
Chateau and Global … because L&W was prohibited from accepting compensation
from State National to defend Chateau and Global in the Baroudi action without
Chateau’s and Global’s informed written consent” (¶ 55); (3) “a declaration
that the tripartite relationship does not absolve State National of its duty to
pay for independent counsel to defend Chateau and Global in the Baroudi action”
(¶ 56); and (4) “a declaration that any panel counsel appointed by State
National who can control the outcome of coverage issues created by State
National’s reservation of rights may not represent Chateau or Global in the
Baroudi action without their informed written consent” (¶ 57).
These first four declarations are not about controversies
between cross-complainants and Lynberg & Watkins.  The disputes are between cross-complainants
and their insurer, plaintiff State National Insurance Co.  Even if these were disputes between
cross-complainants and Lynberg & Watkins at some point, that is no longer
true since the firm stopped representing cross-complainants in the Baroudi action.

The fifth declaration is a dispute between cross-complainants
and Lynberg & Watkins. 
Cross-complainants allege they are “entitled to a declaration that if
State National recovers reimbursement from Chateau and Global …, then L&W
must disgorge their ill gotten gains and Chateau and Global may recover from
L&W all sums Chateau and Global owe to State National for L&W’s fees
and costs.”  (¶ 58.)  
Cross-complainants allege no basis for such a declaration.  Lynberg & Watkins can only have “ill
gotten gains” if cross-complainants were entitled to independent Cumis counsel,
which State National Insurance Co. did not provide.  Cross-complainants fail to allege or explain
any possible way they could lose their dispute against State National Insurance
Co. over the duty to defend but win their dispute against Lynberg &
Watkins.  The first amended
cross-complaint does not allege facts showing that State National Insurance Co.
can win its action for reimbursement of defense costs against the insured despite
breaching a duty to provide independent counsel to defend them.
Disposition
            Cross-defendants’ Lynberg &
Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz’s demurrer to the first amended
cross-complaint’s first and fourth causes of action is sustained with 20
days’ leave to amend.Tentative Ruling:Cross-Defendants
Lynberg & Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz’s Special Motion to Strike First
Amended Cross-ComplaintCross-defendants
Lynberg & Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz move under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 to strike the claims alleged against them in the first
amended cross-complaint by cross-complainants Chateau Nob Hill Apartments, LP
and Global Integrity Realty Corporation.  
Cross-Complainants’
Lack of Civility            The opposition to this motion improperly
attacks counsel for cross-defendants, such as accusing them of violating the
statute prohibiting “acts of moral turpitude, dishonesty, or corruption.”  Counsel’s advocacy for cross-defendants does
no such thing.  The court admonishes
Stephen L. Thomas to refrain from personal attacks on opposing counsel.  Legal Standard
for Anti-SLAPP Motion            Courts use a two-step
process for resolving anti-SLAPP motions under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16: “First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.”  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 (Navellier).)  The defendant
must show “the cause of action is based on the defendant’s protected free
speech or petitioning activity.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  Second, once the defendant establishes the
first element, courts “must then determine whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.”  (Navellier,
29 Cal.4th at p. 88.)  “[T]he plaintiff
need only have stated and substantiated a legally sufficient claim.”  (Ibid.,
internal quotes and citations omitted.) 
“[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.”  (Id. at p. 94.)  “Put another way, the plaintiff ‘must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ”  (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)Protected
ActivityCross-defendants
do not meet their burden of showing the causes of action against them arise
from protected activity.  “[T]he moving
defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.  When relief is sought based on allegations of
both protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is
disregarded at this stage.”  (Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.)  Protected
activity includes any statement or writing “made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(1)) or “made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law” (id., subd. (e)(2)).  Attorneys’
conduct in litigation is not necessarily protected activity.  “[N]ot all attorney conduct in connection
with litigation, or in the course of representing clients, is protected by
section 425.16.”  (California Back
Specialists Medical Group v. Rand (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1037 (Rand).)  “[N]umerous cases have held that ‘actions
based on an attorney’s breach of professional and ethical duties owed to a
client’ are generally not subject to section 425.16 ‘even though protected
litigation activity features prominently in the factual background.’ ”  (Sprengel v. Zbylut (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 140, 151.)  The anti-SLAPP
statute “is generally inapplicable to claims seeking to impose liability based
on an attorney’s violation of the conflict of interest rules set forth in the
Rules of Professional Conduct or other attorney actions taken on behalf of a
client.”  (Id. at p. 154.)  The first amended cross-complaint alleges
Lynberg & Watkins breached fiduciary duties by violating conflict of
interest rules.  In Rand, the
Court of Appeal described two prior cases as holding that a “contract and tort
action against attorney for representing adverse interests in litigation [was]
not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute” and that an “action against attorney for
breach of duty of loyalty arising from representation of clients with
conflicting interest [was] not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Rand, supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at p.
1037.)  Those cases are analogous to the
first amended cross-complaint’s claims.The first
amended cross-complaint alleges Lynberg & Watkins, Webb, and Kurtz “did not
disclose to Chateau and Global that State National’s reservation of rights might
create a conflict of interest for L&W which could possibly entitle Chateau
and Global to hire independent counsel to defend the Baroudi action at State
National’s expense” and “did not obtain Chateau’s and Global’s informed written
consent to accept compensation from State National to defend the Baroudi
action, in violation of Rule 1.8.6.” 
(FACC, ¶ 12.)  It further alleges
the attorneys “failed to make required disclosures to Chateau and Global of the
implications of joint representation.” 
(¶ 17.)  Cross-complainants allege
the attorneys breached duties to disclose several matters related to the
purported conflict of interest (¶¶ 22-26) and the duty not to represent cross-complainants
without their authorization (¶ 27).   The only
“statement” by Lynberg & Watkins that the first amended cross-complaint
refers to is an email from Kurtz to cross-complainants (her clients) stating, “
‘[O]ur firm will continue to defend the case without regard to coverage issues.
 We run into coverage issues in almost
all of our cases and having a reservation of rights letter issued by the
carrier on habitability cases is common. 
. . . It is a conflict of interest for insurance defense counsel to
become involved in coverage. . . .  Under
California law there is a tri-parte relationship between the firm, our client
and the carrier.’ ”  (FACC, ¶ 13.)  The first amended cross-complaint does not
seek to hold Kurtz or her firm liable for making that statement.  It seeks to hold them liable for not
making other statements: disclosures of purported conflicts of interest.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-18, 21-26.)  In their
arguments on prong one, cross-defendants rely on three cases.  First, the moving papers accurately summarize
Fremont Reorganizing Corp. v. Faigin (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1153 (FRC)
as finding “that Section 425.16(e)(1) applied to a claim - as in connection
with civil litigation – [that] a former in-house counsel had violated
professional duties he owed to his former corporate clients by making
statements to the Insurance Commissioner as liquidator of a related company
that led to the initiation of an adversary action against his former clients in
the liquidation proceedings.”  (Motion,
pp. 11-12.)  In FRC,
however, the protected activity was actual speech.  The court found the cross-complaint’s causes
of action “for breach of confidence, breach of fiduciary duty, and equitable
indemnity all are based on [former in-house counsel] Faigin’s statements made
to the Commissioner that [his former employers] FRC and Fremont General were
planning to auction artwork that purportedly belonged to Fremont Indemnity.  FRC alleges that by making those statements
Faigin breached his duty of confidence and other fiduciary duties owed to FRC
and Fremont General as former clients, and that FRC is entitled to equitable
indemnity as a result.  It seems clear
that the gravamen or principal thrust of each of these counts is that Faigin
breached his professional duties owed to his former clients by making the
statements to the Commissioner.”  (FRC,
at pp. 1166-1167.)  Those claims
sought to hold the lawyer liable for literal speech or statements.  The moving cross-defendants fail to identify
any speech or statements for which the first amended cross-complaint seeks to
hold them liable.FRC further acknowledges, “Several cases have
held that the anti-SLAPP statute was inapplicable in actions by clients against
their own attorneys because the gravamen or principal thrust of the particular
causes of action did not concern a statement made in connection with litigation,
but instead concerned some other conduct allegedly constituting a breach of
professional duty.”  (FRC, supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at p. 1170.)  That is
also true here.  Second, cross-defendants
cite Thayer v. Kabateck Brown Kellner LLP (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 141 (Thayer).  The moving papers argue the court “distinguished
between a client’s cause of action against an attorney for acts on behalf of
the client - garden variety legal malpractice - and a cause of action based on
attorney’s statements or conduct on behalf of a different client; the former
class of claims may not be within the ambit of the SLAPP statute; the other
kinds of claims fall within the statute.” 
(Motion, p. 12.)  That is correct,
but Thayer merely drew a line between the plaintiff’s allegations and
garden-variety malpractice, which is categorically not protected
activity.  The point was that the
plaintiff’s action was not “a garden-variety legal malpractice claim by clients
against lawyers” because the plaintiff “was not a client” and “no malpractice
claim was alleged.”  (Thayer, supra,
at p. 158.)Third,
cross-defendants cite Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter
& Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658 (Peregrine).  There, the court did not hold that everything
alleged by the plaintiffs was protected activity.  It stated, “Plaintiffs complain of some
conduct that is not in the nature of speech or petitioning activity.  For example, plaintiffs submitted a
declaration from [an expert on legal ethics] opining that Sheppard violated
ethical rules by failing to disclose potential conflicts of interest or obtain
informed consent from all clients to its joint representation.”  (Id. at p. 671.)  The first
amended cross-complaint alleges exactly that. 
It alleges, for example: “State National and L&W failed to make
required disclosures to Chateau and Global of the implications of joint
representation” (¶ 17); “L&W had a duty to disclose … their analysis of
potential and actual conflicts of interest in representing the interests of
both State National and Chateau and Global” (¶ 22); “L&W had a duty to
disclose to Chateau and Global that if State National’s reservation of rights
creates a disqualifying conflict of interest, then L&W must obtain
Chateau’s and Global’s informed written consent to representation or decline
the assignment from State National, and that absent such consent, they are
entitled to select and direct independent counsel at State National’s expense”
(¶ 26).  In
contrast, Peregrine found the following allegations of wrongdoing “fall
squarely in the category of petitioning activity”: the attorneys “opposed the
SEC’s efforts to obtain restraining orders and to appoint a receiver”, “stopped
Hillman’s [a witness who largely controlled the client entities] deposition, refusing
to allow him to testify further, and threatened to put Peregrine and the
Funding Entities into bankruptcy if the SEC persisted in seeking Hillman’s
testimony”, and “orchestrated the bankruptcies of the entity-plaintiffs and
then, after it withdrew from their representation, selectively responded to a
discovery request by withholding documents that would have been harmful to
Hillman and themselves.”  (133
Cal.App.4th at pp. 671-672.)  The first
amended cross-complaint alleges no similar conduct.  It does not allege Lynberg & Watkins did
anything in the Baroudi proceeding to harm cross-complainants.  This case is
analogous to United States Fire Ins. Co. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1617, 1628, where the alleged wrongful
conduct by lawyers was simply “the acceptance by Sheppard Mullin of representation
adverse to” the plaintiff.  The court
distinguished Peregrine (as to its holding about the portion of
allegations that were protected activity) because there, the plaintiff sued the
lawyer for “its specific conduct during the [adverse] representation.”  (Ibid.)   Because
cross-defendants do not show the action arises from protected activity, the
court does not reach the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.  DispositionCross-defendants
Lynberg & Watkins, Lane Webb, and Rebecca Kurtz’s special motion to strike
is denied.  
