 Case Number:  20STCV25497    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ESTATE OF TAT KWOK, by and through his Successor in Interest,
  CONAIL KWOK; and CONAIL KWOK, individually, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RAMON HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATES, INC. dba MISSION CARE CENTER, and
  DOES 1 through 25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV25497
 Hearing Date:   5/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel [CRS# 8595]; and
Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel [CRS# 7010].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
On August 28, 2019,
Conail Kwok—both as an individual and as the Successor in Interest of the
Estate of Tat Kwok—and her sister Melissa Kwok Anderson filed a Complaint suing
Defendants Ramon Healthcare Associates, Inc. (Mission Care Center; originally
sued as Riverside Equities, LLC) and Does 1 through 25.
The Complaint alleged claims
of (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code
sections 15600, et seq., (2) Violation of Resident Rights pursuant to Health
and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b), and (3) Wrongful Death.
The claims arose from
allegations that Tat Kwok died as a result of Mission Care Center’s failure to
prevent a wound that contributed to his death on April 28, 2019.
On November 4, 2019,
Plaintiffs Conail Kwok—both as an individual and as the Successor in Interest
of the Estate of Tat Kwok—filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC
alleges the same claims and the same general allegations as the original
Complaint but does not include Melissa Kwok Anderson as a plaintiff or
defendant or mention Melissa in the pleadings in any way.
B. Dismissal,
Reinstatement, and Abatement
On May 3, 2021, this
action was dismissed after counsel for the Plaintiffs failed to appear for several
scheduled Order to Show Cause (OSC) hearings relating to Plaintiffs’ search for
counsel, with the caveat that “should Successor in Interest Plaintiff [Kwok]
secure an attorney, Plaintiffs’ case [could] be reinstated.”
On March 21, 2022, the
Court granted an opposed motion by Plaintiffs Conail Kwok to vacate the dismissal
and reinstate this action.
On March 8, 2023, the
Court granted an unopposed motion by Mission Care Center to abate this action pending
Melissa Kwok Anderson’s joinder to this action, based on authority holding that
all heirs must be added to a wrongful death action, and the action abated until
those heirs are joined.
On August 2, 2023, at a
status conference regarding alternative dispute resolution (ADR), Plaintiffs’
counsel represented that Plaintiff had identified the heirs and intended to
amend the pleadings to add those heirs.
On August 31, 2023,
Mission Care Center filed an objection to expert discovery based on Plaintiffs
Conail Kwok’s failure to add the remaining heirs to this action.
On September 28, 2023,
at the final status conference and a further status conference regarding ADR, Plaintiffs’
counsel informed the Court that more time was needed to add heirs to this
action.
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel confirmed there was no service on the heirs and therefore, the Court
abated this action. The Court noted that the matter will be deemed completed
and will be dismissed pursuant to the Five-Year Rule on the next hearing date
of August 29, 2024 absent further order of the Court.
On December 21, 2023,
Mission Care Center served a notice of ruling for the December 20th order.
On March 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs Tat Kwok, through his successor in interest Conail Kwok, and Conail
Kwok individually, filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
(SAC), set to be heard on July 1, 2024, to add nominal defendants Ada Kwok and
Melissa Kwok Anderson.
C. Motion Before the
Court
On April 11, 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel Jorge Ledezma filed motions to be relieved as counsel for Conail Kwok
in both her capacities. 
The April 11th motion
attaches a proof of service showing service of the motions on Plaintiffs Conail
Kwok.
On April 17, 2024,
Jorge Ledezma filed a proof of service reflecting service of his motions on
Defendant Mission Care Center.
That same day, Jorge
Ledezma filed an amended proof of service relating to Mission Care Center.
As of this date, Jorge
Ledezma’s motion are unopposed.
Jorge Ledezma’s motions
are now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Relieve Counsel:
GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel ([without client consent pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section]
284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the
handling of the case.’” (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406
[internal quotations omitted].)
For
an attorney to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subdivisions (a) and
(c) to (e). These subdivisions require that an attorney file and show proof of
service of (1) a notice and motion to be relived as counsel on Judicial Council
form MC-051, (2) a declaration in support of the motion to be relived as
counsel on Judicial Council form MC-052, and (3) a proposed order in support of
the motion to be relieved as counsel on Judicial Council form MC-053.
The
court should consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) Moreover, the motion should also be denied if
it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause injustice. (Mandell v.
Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
B.
Court’s Determination
The
Court GRANTS both motions.
First,
Plaintiffs’ counsel Jorge Ledezma complied with Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362 within 16 court days of hearing, plus additional days to respond based
on manner of service. Counsel Ledezma has filed proofs of service reflecting
service of all three applicable forms on the parties that have appeared in this
case. And a review of the three Judicial Council forms for each Plaintiff shows
that the forms are complete and properly filled out.
Second,
there is a valid reason for withdrawal: “An irreparable breakdown of
attorney-client relationship has occurred that makes it impossible for attorney
to represent this client.”
Third,
because there is no trial date in this action, and because Plaintiffs Conail
Kwok and Defendant Mission Care Center have not filed oppositions to this
motion, no prejudice or delay arises here as to deny Jorge Ledezma’s motions.
The Court may take additional steps as needed to protect against prejudice, rather
than denying outright the relief sought. 
III. Conclusion

Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
[CRS# 8595] is GRANTED.
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
[CRS# 7010] is GRANTED.