 Case Number:  23STCV23749    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MECCA MORGAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Alpha Beta Company dba Ralphs; The Kroger Company; Dan Cronin;
  and Does 1 THROUGH 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV23749
 Hearing Date:   5/21/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Mecca
  Morgan’s Motion to Strike Affirmative Defenses.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Mecca Morgan
sues Defendants Alpha Beta Company dba Ralphs (ABC), the Kroger Company
(Kroger), Dan Cronin, and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a January 31, 2024,
First Amended Complaint alleging claims of (1) Discrimination, (2) Battery, (3)
Negligent Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (4) Violation of
California Civil Code Section 52.1, Interference with the Exercise of Civil
Rights.
The claims arise from
the following allegations. While visiting a Ralphs store as a customer,
Plaintiff Mecca Morgan, an African American woman, was discriminated against by
store employees. Specifically, Plaintiff Morgan was stopped inside the store by
a Ralphs employee and then a security guard that accused Plaintiff of stealing,
demanding proof of purchase. Plaintiff Morgan confirmed that she had a receipt
but protested that she was not going to let the employees violate her rights,
recording the incident as it occurred. Plaintiff Morgan attempted several times
to use an exit to leave the store but had her path blocked by the store’s security
guard. As a result, Plaintiff Morgan walked to a different exit in the store to
leave the premises. However, as Plaintiff attempted to exit the store, she was
attacked by the store manager, Ralph Cronin. The pleadings do not describe the alleged
battery other than to generally describe offensive and unwelcome touching.
These experiences have resulted in economic and non-economic damages, including
affecting Plaintiff’s home broker/agent profession and income.
On February 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a proof of service reflecting a February 5, 2024, service of
the FAC on counsel for ABC by regular and electronic mail.
On March 1, 2024, ABC
filed its Answer to the FAC.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On April 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to strike affirmative defenses from ABC’s Answer. The
motion arises from various arguments challenging the sufficiency of the
streamlined defenses appearing in ABC’s Answer.
On May 8, 2024, ABC
filed an opposition to Plaintiff Morgan’s motion. The opposition was filed
twice. The first copy of the opposition attached a proof of service showing
service on a person other than Plaintiff Morgan. The second copy of the
opposition is identical to first opposition except that it: (1) capitalized
Defendants’ names in the caption; and (2) attached the correct proof of
service.
On May 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply to ABC’s opposition.
On May 17, 2024, two
court days prior to this hearing, Plaintiff Morgan filed a Second Amended
Complaint that has been received but not filed by the Clerk.
ABC’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Sua Sponte Order Striking Second Amended Complaint
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Analysis
“A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or
motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but
before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for
filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by
the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).)
Here, Plaintiff filed a proposed
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on May 17, 2024. Plaintiff Morgan did not obtain
a Court order that allowed her to file the amended pleading. Neither does the
proposed Second Amended Complaint nor the record show that the parties agreed
to permit Plaintiff Morgan to file an amended pleading. And ABC had answered
the FAC as of March 1, 2024, well before Plaintiff Morgan filed her proposed
SAC. Plaintiff Morgan therefore did not have the right to file an amended
pleading as to ABC without first filing a motion for leave to amend. At most,
Plaintiff Morgan could have amended the pleadings as to any Defendant that has
not answered the FAC. (Cf. Barton v. Kahn (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1219-1221 [Interpreting Code Civ. Proc., § 473 and holding that one defendant’s
filing of an answer did not divest the plaintiff of the right to amend the
complaint with respect to the causes of action brought against other defendants
who had demurred to the same pleading].) Yet, a comparison of the proposed SAC
and the operative FAC shows that the proposed SAC does not contain any new
allegations, let alone new allegations against ABC’s co-Defendants. The only
differences between the proposed SAC and the operative FAC are that the proposed
SAC adds two things: (1) the proposed SAC identically states the General
Allegations, Causes of Action, and Prayer twice, with the General Allegations,
Causes of Action, and Prayer from the FAC being identical; and (2) the proposed
SAC attaches the summons and civil cover sheet for this case, which were not
attached to the FAC. It is thus not clear why Plaintiff filed the proposed SAC
if she did not amend the substance of the pleadings in any consequential
fashion.
Accordingly, because the proposed
SAC was not filed as a matter of right, it is a pleading that was not filed in
conformity with the laws of California, for which reason the Court STRIKES the
May 17, 2024, Second Amended Complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b).)
 
III. Plaintiff Morgan’s Motion to
Strike: DENIED.
B.
Legal Standard and Court’s Determination
Referring to the legal standard on
motions to strike set forth above, the Court finds in favor of Defendant ABC.
The
Court begins by noting that even if Plaintiff’s motion is two days late, as argued
out by the Defendant ABC, the Court may and will consider the motion on the
merits.
First,
Plaintiff points out that she filed the motion on the Tuesday following Cesar
Chavez Day, and thus the motion is not late at all. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
1.10.) Second, even if it were, the 30-day requirement is not mandatory, where
the words ‘may’ file a motion to strike connotes a permissive standard. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); cf. McAllister v. County of Monterrey
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 280 (McAllister) [applying above permissive
reasoning to a late demurrer].)
Second,
case law holds that “[t]here is no absolute right to have a pleading stricken
for lack of timeliness in filing where no question of jurisdiction is involved,
and where … the late filing was a mere irregularity,” such that “the granting
or denial of the motion is a matter [that] lies within the discretion of the
court.” (McAllister, supra, at pp. 281-282, citations omitted.)
However, the Court next determines
that the permissive standard in interpreting the sufficiency of answers make
the Answer here sufficient for pleading purposes.
The California Supreme Court has discussed
the sufficiency of answers and explained that where a defect in pleading does
not affect substantial rights, it “is to be disregarded.” (Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240 (Harris).) In Harris,
the California Supreme Court determined that the City’s answer was sufficient
where it pleaded that “‘[a]ny alleged adverse employment actions of which
plaintiff complains … were not based on plaintiff’s gender and/or sex,
pregnancy or any other alleged discriminatory practice, but instead were based
on one or more legitimate nondiscriminatory reasons. Nor were any of the
employment actions of defendant taken under pretext.” (Ibid.) The
Supreme Court reasoned that this answer had “put Harris on notice that the City
intended to defend on the basis that it had not discriminated against her and
had a legitimate reason for discharging her.” (Ibid.)
Here, the affirmative defenses
raised in ABC’s Answer are comparable to the above quoted affirmative defense
from Harris. Moreover, the defenses are clear enough to put Plaintiff on
notice of the defenses to be raised by ABC. And even if some defenses are
inconsistent with other defenses, this is not a ground to grant Plaintiff’s
motion. (Cf. South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725,
733-734 [For purposes of a demurrer, each defense in the answer must be
considered separately without regard to any other defense, and thus, a
separately stated defense that is sufficient in form and substance when viewed
in isolation does not become insufficient when, on looking at the answer as a
whole, that defense appears inconsistent with other parts of the answer].)
As a result, following Harris’s
instruction, the Court determines that the Answer here is sufficiently pleaded.
Plaintiff Morgan’s motion is thus
DENIED. 
IV. Conclusion
Plaintiff Mecca Morgan’s Motion to
Strike Affirmative Defenses is DENIED.