


[1]Defendants’ Notice
of Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint was filed
on February 21, 2024, but the proof of service attached to the Notice indicates
that it was served on February 16, 2024. 
 


[2]The Court notes
that the proofs of service filed by Plaintiff on November 17, 2023 reference
service of the “complaint,” but do not appear to reference the FAC. (See
Proofs of Service, Items 2(b).)  


[3]As discussed, Civil Code
section 3479 provides that “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not
limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square,
street, or highway, is a nuisance.” 


[4]The Court also
notes that Defendants’ reply in support of the demurrer argues for the first
time that “[t]he Complaint’s superfluous definition of ‘Defendants’ is not
sufficient to support any cause of action, The Complaint clearly alleges that
the Huezo Defendants assumed the role of a Contractor for the building owners,
nothing more and nothing less. Plaintiff’s ubiquitous use of ‘Defendants’
renders the Complaint unintelligible and subject to demurrer.” (Reply at p.
5:22-26.) The Court notes that “¿[p]oints raised
for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be
considered, because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an
opportunity to counter the argument.¿” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.) Thus, the
Court declines to consider the arguments raised for the first time in Defendants’
reply. 


[5]As
set forth above, “[t]he
negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort but the tort
of negligence…” (McMahon v. Craig, supra,
176 Cal.App.4th at p. 1509.)  

