 Case Number:  23STCV22254    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



MARTIN DORSLA,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SALLY FOSTER JONES,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV22254




Hearing Date:


April 26, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background
Plaintiff Martin Dorsla
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on September 15, 2023 against a number of
Defendants. 
Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on October 31, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) premises liability, (4) private nuisance, (5)
negligence and negligence per se, (6) negligent infliction of emotional
distress, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (8) violation
of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that on or about August 1, 2009, he entered into a written rental
agreement with B&E Properties, LP for the rental of a rent-controlled
apartment located at 6208 Orange St., Los Angeles California 90048 (the
“Premises”). (FAC, ¶ 1, p. 2.) On or about March 29, 2019, DSJ Thayer Exchanges
LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, and DAJO Thayer LLC acquired ownership of the premises.
(FAC, ¶ 3, p. 2.) The Premises is managed by Capri Properties. (FAC, ¶ 4, p.
2.) From about late 2019 to the present date, the Premises has been under
renovation by Enrique Camacho of Housed Inc. and Joe J Huezo of Huezo
Construction. (FAC, ¶ 5, p. 2.) Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that
Defendants failed to repair certain “dangerous and defective conditions in the
premises and common areas of the subject property within a reasonable amount of
time after being given repeated notice of the conditions…” (FAC, ¶ 13, p. 6.) 
Defendants Joe Huezo and
Huezo Construction (jointly, “Defendants”) now demur to each of the causes of
action of the FAC. Defendants also move to strike portions of the FAC.
Plaintiff opposes both. 
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike are untimely.
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed proofs of service indicating that Defendants
were served with the complaint by personal service on November 3, 2023. 
As noted by Plaintiff, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40, subdivision
(a), “[a]
person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within
30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the
complaint or cross-complaint.” In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 435, subdivision (b)(1), “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply
to motions specified in subdivision (e).” Here, Defendants’ demurrer and the
memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion to strike were
filed and served on February 16, 2024.[1]
Thus, as noted by Plaintiff, the instant demurrer and motion to strike were
filed and served more than 30 days after Defendants were served with the
complaint.[2]

In the reply in support of the demurrer,
Defendants cite to McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
253, 280, where the
Court of Appeal found that “we disagree with McAllister’s characterization of section 430.40 of the Code of Civil Procedure as
mandatory. That statute reads in relevant
part: ‘A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been
filed may, within 30 days after service
of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or
cross-complaint.’…The cited provision thus uses the permissive expression
‘may,’ not the mandatory term ‘must.’” (Internal citation omitted, emphasis in
original.) The McAllister Court further found as follows: 
 
“Even assuming for argument’s
sake that the demurrer was filed late, the trial court nevertheless had
discretion to entertain it. ‘There is no absolute right to have a pleading
stricken for lack of timeliness in filing where no question of jurisdiction is
involved, and where, as here, the late filing was a mere irregularity
[citation]; the granting or denial of the motion is a matter which lies within
the discretion of the court.’ (Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193,
196 [88 Cal. Rptr. 759], disapproved on another ground in Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart
& Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176, 190, fn. 29 [98 Cal. Rptr. 837, 491
P.2d 421]; cf. Johnson
v. Sun Realty Co. (1934) 138 Cal.App. 296, 299 [32 P.2d 393] [court had
discretion to hear a demurrer, notwithstanding violation of procedural rules].)
 
As provided by
statute: ‘The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, … enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.’ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The trial court may exercise this discretion
so long as its action does ‘not affect the substantial rights of the parties.’…
 
Here, we conclude, the trial
court’s decision to entertain the second demurrer did not affect McAllister’s substantial rights. ‘Prior to the filing of respondent’s
demurrer to the amended complaint, appellant had not taken any steps to have
judgment by default entered under Code of Civil
Procedure section 432, nor did he endeavor to show that he was in any way
prejudiced by the delay.’ (Tuck v. Thuesen, supra, 10 Cal.App.3d at p. 196.) The same
is true in this case. The trial court thus acted within its broad discretion in
allowing respondents to file the second demurrer, notwithstanding McAllister’s protestations that it was untimely.” (McAllister
v. County of Monterey, supra,147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281-282.)  
            The Court notes that here, Plaintiff filed a substantive opposition to the demurrer
and motion to strike. Plaintiff does not appear to assert that he was
prejudiced by the untimely filing of the demurrer and motion to strike. Accordingly,
the Court exercises its discretion to consider Defendants’ demurrer and motion
to strike. 
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    First Cause of
Action for Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
In the first cause of action for breach of warranty of habitability,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that Defendants failed to repair certain
“dangerous and defective conditions in the premises and common areas of the
subject property within a reasonable time after being given repeated notice of
the conditions…” (FAC, ¶ 13, p. 6.) Defendants assert that the first cause of
action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants. 
As noted by Defendants, the first cause of action of the FAC cites to
certain legal authority. Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, Green v.
Superior Court of San Francisco (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637, where the California
Supreme Court concluded that “a
warranty of habitability is implied by law in residential leases in this
state…”  The Green Court concluded
that “[u]nder the implied warranty which we recognize, a residential landlord
covenants that premises he leases for living quarters will be maintained in a
habitable state for the duration of the lease…In most cases substantial
compliance with those applicable building and housing code standards which
materially affect health and safety will suffice to meet the landlord’s
obligations under the common law implied warranty of habitability we now
recognize.” (Ibid.) 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that the FAC “identifies Defendants
as providers of construction services at the Subject Property and does not
allege that Defendants are landlords or owners of the Subject Property.”
(Demurrer at p. 5:23-25.) Indeed, as discussed above, the FAC alleges that on or about March 29, 2019, DSJ Thayer
Exchanges LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, and DAJO Thayer LLC acquired ownership of the
premises. (FAC, ¶ 3, p. 2.) Plaintiff alleges that from about late 2019 to the
present date, the Premises has been under renovation by, inter alia, Joe
J Huezo of Huezo Construction. (FAC, ¶ 5, p. 2.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff contends that “Defendant HUEZO assumed the role of the
landlord or at the very least a partnership because when plaintiff called
regarding the various causes the landlord directed Plaintiff to Defendant. It
is therefore clear from the total reading of the complaint that Defendant is
equally responsible for the various causes of actions.” (Opp’n at pp.
6:27-7:2.) But Plaintiff does not cite any allegations of the FAC stating that
the landlord of the subject premises directed Plaintiff to Defendants when
Plaintiff called. As Defendants note, “[b]ecause a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show
the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause
of action.” ((Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
 In addition, Plaintiff does not
cite any legal authority in support of Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendants
“assumed the role of the landlord” under these purported circumstances. As
noted by Defendants, “[e]ven if Plaintiff alleged a quasi-landlord
relationship, Plaintiff cites no authority to support the proposition that a
third-party may assume the legal role of a landlord by mere telephonic
reference…” (Reply at p. 2:23-26.) As discussed, the Green Court
concluded that “[u]nder the implied warranty which we
recognize, a residential landlord covenants that premises he leases for living
quarters will be maintained in a habitable state for the duration of the lease.”
((Green v. Superior Court of San Francisco, supra, 10 Cal.3d at p. 637.)

Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains Defendants’ demurer to the first cause of action, with leave
to amend. 
C.    Second Cause of
Action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
Defendants note that in the second cause of action, Plaintiff cites to
Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th
578, 588, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[i]n the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains an implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the
tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises…The
covenant of quiet enjoyment insulates the tenant against any act or omission on
the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a
tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by
the tenancy.” (Internal quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted.) 
Defendants assert that “[a]gain,
Defendants are not the landlord/owner of the Subject Property and the Complaint
does not allege a landlord-tenant relationship.” (Demurrer at p. 6:15-16.)
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that the Complaint does not allege a
landlord-tenant relationship with respect to Defendants. As discussed,
Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority in support of his assertion that
“Defendant HUEZO assumed the role of the landlord…” (Opp’n at p. 6:27.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action, with leave to amend. 
D.    Third Cause of
Action for Premises Liability 
Defendants note that in the third cause of action, Plaintiff cites to Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619, where the Court of Appeal found that “[p]remises liability is a form of negligence based on the
holding in Rowland v. Christian, supra, 69 Cal.2d 108, and
is described as follows: The owner of premises is under a duty to exercise
ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to avoid exposing
persons to an unreasonable risk of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is
negligence.” 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff
has failed to states [sic] facts sufficient to establish the first element of a
cause of action for Premises Liability, as the Complaint does not allege that
Defendants owned the Subject Property…” (Demurrer at p. 7:1-2.) As discussed,
the FAC alleges that on or about
March 29, 2019, DSJ Thayer Exchanges LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, and DAJO Thayer LLC
acquired ownership of the premises. (FAC, ¶ 3, p. 2.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
third cause of action, with leave to amend. 
E.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Private Nuisance
Defendants also demur to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
“private nuisance.” 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 3479, “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not
limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square,
street, or highway, is a nuisance.” 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 3480, “[a] public nuisance is one which affects at
the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number
of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon
individuals may be unequal.” Pursuant to Civil
Code section 3481, “[e]very nuisance not included
in the definition of the last section is private.” 
In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff does not allege any
specific harmful conduct, specific acts which are injurious to health, or
specific harm suffered by Plaintiff. Plaintiff merely alleges certain acts
performed by Defendants constituted nuisance (Complaint ¶69-73).” (Demurrer at
p. 7:21-23.) But in addition to the acts allegedly constituting nuisance (FAC,
¶ 69), Plaintiff also alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants, by acting
and by failing to act, created conditions that were harmful to health, indecent
and offensive to the senses, and an obstruction to
the free use of property, to interfere with [Plaintiff’s] comfortable enjoyment
of life and property.” (FAC, ¶ 72.) 
In the demurrer, Defendants also cite to Birke v.
Oakwood Worldwide (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1548, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Civil Code section 3493 provides: ‘A private
person may maintain an action for a public nuisance, if it is specially
injurious to himself, but not otherwise.’” But here, Plaintiff does not allege
a cause of action for public nuisance. Thus, the Court does not see how Birke is applicable
here. 
Defendants also argue that “[e]ven
assuming the Complaint states facts sufficient to sustain a cause of action for
Private/Public Nuisance, the fourth cause of action should be dismissed under CCP §430.10 (f) on the grounds that the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible due to Plaintiff’s reliance on public
nuisance statutory authority in support of a (purportedly) private nuisance
cause of action.” (Demurrer at pp. 7:27-8:2.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), “[t]he party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of
the following grounds:…The pleading is uncertain. As
used in this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.” 
The
Court does not find that Defendants have shown that the fourth cause of action
is uncertain. The fourth cause of action is labeled as one for “private
nuisance.” In addition, Defendants note that Plaintiff cites to Civil Code section 3479, but Defendants do not appear
to cite any legal authority demonstrating that Section
3479 is limited to public nuisance claims.[3] The Court notes that a demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (¿Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿.) However, “¿[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.) The
Court does not find that Defendants have shown that the fourth cause of action
is so confusing
that Defendants cannot tell what they are supposed to respond to.[4]
Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer to the fourth cause of
action. 
F.     Fifth Cause of
Action for Negligence and Negligence Per Se 
“The elements of a cause of action for
negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach
as the proximate or legal cause of
the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917 (internal quotations and emphasis omitted).)

In the fifth cause of action for “negligence and negligence per se,”
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants owed a legal duty of
care to [Plaintiff] by virtue of their landlord-tenant relationship and the
fiduciary nature of that relationship…” (FAC, ¶ 83.) In the demurrer,
Defendants assert that “[i]t is clear from the face of the pleadings that
Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Defendants because the only duty alleged by Plaintiff is that duty which
arises between a landlord and tenant. The Complaint does not allege that
Defendants were/are the landlord or owner of the Subject Property…” (Demurrer
at p. 8:9-12.) This is not disputed by Plaintiff. As discussed, Plaintiff
alleges that on or about March
29, 2019, DSJ Thayer Exchanges LLC, SFJ Thayer LLC, and DAJO Thayer LLC
acquired ownership of the premises. (FAC, ¶ 3, p. 2.) Plaintiff alleges that
the premises has been under renovation by, inter alia, Joe J Huezo of
Huezo Construction. (FAC, ¶ 5, p. 2.) Accordingly, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action, with leave to amend. 
G.    Sixth Cause of
Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action, negligent
infliction of emotional distress, is improperly plead as it is not a stand
alone tort.” (Demurrer at p. 8:16-17.) Defendants cite to McMahon v.
Craig (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502, 1509, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence…” Plaintiff does not address this
legal authority in the opposition.
 Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth
cause of action, without leave to amend. 
H.    Seventh Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
Defendants assert that the FAC does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
“The tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress is comprised of three elements: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff’s injuries were
actually and proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct…In order
to meet the first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct…must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community. Generally, conduct will be
found to be actionable where the recitation of the facts to an average member
of the community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to
exclaim, Outrageous!” (McMahon v.
Craig,
supra, 176 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1515-1516 [internal quotations and
references to [Citation.] omitted].) 
In the demurrer, Defendants argue that “[t]here
is not a single allegation in the Complaint which would cause an average, or
even hypersensitive, member of the community to exclaim ‘Outrageous!’” (Demurrer at p. 10:11-13.) But in the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants failed to provide sufficient heat
in the premises for over twelve (12) months causing [Plaintiff] to suffer
severe emotional distress and physical distress…” (FAC, ¶ 119(i), p. 24.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants failed to secure the open walls and
windows from the renovation units after repeated notices of break-ins causing
[Plaintiff] to constantly worry and fear for his safety and his family’s safety…”
(FAC, ¶ 119(vi), p. 24.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed
to fix windows and screens causing [Plaintiff] and family [sic] to fear for
their safety from break-ins.” (FAC, ¶ 119(viii), p. 24.) The Court finds that
Plaintiff has adequately alleged “outrageous conduct” for purposes of his cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action. 
 
I.     
Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200
Defendants assert that the eighth cause of action fails to state facts
sufficient to support a cause of action. Defendants cite to Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at pages 618-619, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Appellant’s
fourth cause of action alleges: ‘California Business and Professions Code Sections 17000, et seq.,
and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that
unfair competition shall mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business practices. [P] . . . Defendants breached this statute by refusing to
sell [the JPM products] to plaintiff, for the purpose of ruining and
interfering with his beauty and supply business, with the effect of misleading
plaintiff's customers.’ A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” 
            Defendants note that in the eighth cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]hrough the conduct described
above, Defendants have engaged in a pattern and practice of unlawful and unfair
business practices prohibited by the Business and
Professions Code Section 17200.” (FAC, ¶ 135, p. 26.) Defendants assert
that “[t]here is no other allegation, fact, or description of
conduct in support of this cause of action.” (Demurrer at p. 10:23-24.)
Defendants also argue that “Plaintiff has not specifically stated any act of
Defendants that was unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent.” (Demurrer at pp.
10:28-11:1.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not appear to address these
points in the opposition. 
            Defendants also cite to Linear
Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 133, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “to state a claim under the [UCL] one need not plead and prove the
elements of a tort. Instead, one need only show that members of the public are
likely to be deceived.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Defendants assert that here
“Plaintiff has not alleged injury to consumers…or the public…”
(Demurrer at p. 11:1-2.) Plaintiff does not appear to address the Linear Technology case in the opposition.
            Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause
of action, with leave to amend. 
            Motion
to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
Defendants move to strike a number of allegations from the
FAC. As an initial matter, Defendants’ motion to strike page 7,
lines 24-25; page 10, lines 18-19; page 13, lines 14-15; page 19, lines 12-13;
page 21, lines 15-16; page 22, lines 2-3; and page 27, line 3 is moot. As set
forth above, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the first, second,
third, fifth, sixth, and eighth causes of action. 
A.   
Punitive Damages 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the
seventh cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (FAC,
¶ 129, p. 25.) Defendants assert that the FAC “contains insufficient facts to
support an award of exemplary and punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 4:4-5.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged do not
rise to¿the level of “malice,¿oppression¿or fraud”
required to support a punitive damages award. (¿¿See Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63-64¿¿.)¿
“¿‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿” (¿¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)¿¿.) “¿‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.¿” (¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2)¿.) “¿‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.¿” (¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3)¿.)¿ “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 306, 331 (internal quotations omitted).) 
In the motion,
Defendants argue that “Plaintiff only alleges one intentional tort,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. In support of that cause of
action Plaintiff generally alleges ‘more than five independent forms of conduct
causing [Plaintiff] to suffer severe emotional distress’ including: failing to
provide sufficient heat in the premises, failing to repair broken radiators,
failing to repair low water pressure, failing to repair an electrical outlet,
failing to secure a porta-jon in the front of the subject property, failing to
secure walls and windows from renovation in other units, failing to repair
cracks in the bathroom and bedroom, all of which allegedly caused Plaintiff to
constantly fear for his safety and his family’s safety. (Complaint ¶119). Not
only are the acts alleged unintentional in nature, the conduct described is
clearly not ‘so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that
it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.’” (Mot. at
p. 5:9-19.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not address this argument in
his opposition. Rather, Plaintiff generally argues that he is entitled to
punitive damages in connection with the seventh cause of action, without
providing further analysis on this point. 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike the allegation
“thereby, supporting an award of punitive damages to be determined by a jury at
trial” at page 25, lines 19-20 of the FAC, with
leave to amend. The Court also grants Defendants’ motion to strike the
allegation “punitive damages for willful and malicious conduct” at page 28,
line 1 of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
B.   
Emotional Damages
Defendants also move to strike the allegations “[d]amages
for discomfort and annoyance” at page 27, line 22 of
the FAC, and “[d]amages for mental and emotional distress” at page 27, line
23 of the FAC. Defendants assert that “emotional
damages are not recoverable in the present action.” (Mot. at p. 5:24.)
 Defendants cite to McMahon v. Craig, supra,
176 Cal.App.4th at page 229, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he law in California imposes a
duty to avoid causing emotional distress in two general instances. The first
involves ‘bystander” situations ‘in which a plaintiff seeks to recover damages
as a percipient witness to the injury of another.’” The McMahon Court further noted that “[t]he second source of duty is found where the plaintiff is
a ‘direct victim,’ in that the emotional distress damages result from a duty
owed the plaintiff ‘that is ‘assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant
as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.’” (Id. at p. 230.) 
Defendants assert that here,
“Plaintiff’s Complaint does not allege that he witnessed injury
to another.” (Mot. at p. 6:2.) Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff does not
allege a contractual or legal duty imposed upon Defendants which would give
rise to emotional damages.” (Mot. at p. 6:5-6.) Plaintiff
does not address these points in the opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion
to strike the allegations “[d]amages for discomfort and annoyance” at
page 27, line 22 of the FAC, and “[d]amages for
mental . . . distress” at page 27, line 23 of the FAC,
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff has
alleged emotional distress in his cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
C.   
Attorney’s Fees 
Defendants also
assert that attorneys’ fees are not recoverable in the present action. 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision
(a)(10)…provides that allowable costs under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1032 include attorney fees whenever they are
authorized by contract¿or statute.” (Khavarian
Enterprises, Inc. v. Commline, Inc. (2013)
216 Cal.App.4th 310, 327 (emphasis omitted).)
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s Complaint does
not allege the existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendants and
sets forth no statutory basis for the award of attorneys’ fees. As such,
Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees should be stricken from the Complaint.”
(Mot. at p. 6:13-15.) Plaintiff does not dispute this point in the opposition. 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike the allegations
“(f) legal fees; (g) court costs” at page 16, lines 16-17
of the FAC; “(f) legal fees; (g) court costs” at page 25, lines 1-2 of the FAC; and “Plaintiff’s reasonable
attorney’s fees and legal costs as permitted by law” at page 28, line 3 of the FAC, with leave to amend.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the first,
second, third, fifth, and eighth causes of action of the FAC is sustained, with
leave to amend. Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the FAC is
sustained, without leave to amend.[5] Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth and seventh causes of
action of the FAC is overruled. 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted in part, with leave to amend, and denied in part as moot, as set forth
above. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders Defendants to file and serve their answer to the FAC within 30 days of
the date of this order.
///
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  April 26, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


