 Case Number:  23SMCV06061    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Huynh v. Chiaravanond,
et al., Case No. 23SMCV06061
Hearing Date: May 30,
2024
Defendants Pacific
Shangrila LLC and ILU LLC’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens 
 
Plaintiff Huynh sues
defendants based on a dispute over the transfer of funds to purchase properties
in Malibu. Defendants Pacific Shangrila LLC and ILU LLC move for an order
expunging the lis pendens recorded on properties located at 20966 and 20990 Las
Flores Mesa Drive in Malibu.
 
Defendants Pacific
Shangrila LLC and ILU LLC’s request for judicial notice of the grant deeds for
the properties, Exhs. A and B, are GRANTED, as it is a court document under
Evidence Code 452(g). The court does admit the documents for their truth. 
 
Defendants’
objections #1-2 are SUSTAINED as the declarant lacks personal knowledge of the
statements. 
 
Any party or a
non-party having an interest in the property affected by a notice of lis
pendens may move for expungement. Code Civ. Proc. §405.30. A lis pendens must
be removed for being improper on account of (a) the pleading on which the
notice is based not containing a real property claim, or (b) the claimant not
being able to establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable
validity of the real property claim. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 405.31, 405.32; Ziello
v. Superior Court (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 321, 331-32; Urez Corp. v.
Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 1141, 1149.
 
In a motion to
expunge a notice of lis pendens, the claimant who filed the lis pendens has the
burden of proof. Code Civ. Proc. §405.30. That claimant, in opposing the motion
to expunge the lis pendens, must demonstrate: (1) the action affects title to
or right of possession of the real property; (2) in so far as the notice is
concerned, the party recording the notice commenced the action for a proper
purpose and in good faith; and (3) the probable validity of the claim by a
preponderance of the evidence. Hunting World, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 67, 70; see also Code Civ. Proc. §405.30, et seq. Only
admissible evidence may be considered. Burger v. Superior Court (1984)
151 Cal.App.3d 1013, 1019.
Defendants Pacific and ILU move for an order expunging the lis pendens on
the properties, arguing the complaint does not contain any cause of action that
would affect the tile or possession of the properties. Rather, the complaint
asserts a claim to an indirect interest in defendants Pacific and ILU. Citing Lewis
v. Superior Court, defendants argue Huynh’s cause for action for quiet
title does not support a lis pendens because he alleges he was defrauded into
giving defendant Chiaravanond money based on alleged misrepresentations that he
would hold an ownership interest in the LLCs, which would hold title to the
properties purchased with such money; this claim would only entitle plaintiff to
money damages. 
Alternatively, defendants argue plaintiff cannot establish by a
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim
because (1) plaintiff’s claim is defeated by the statute of fraud; (2)
plaintiff solely claims an interest in Pacific and ILU, not the properties
themselves; and (3) owners of equitable title cannot maintain a quiet title
action against a legal property owner.  
Plaintiff argues the complaint asserts a real property claim through the quiet
title cause of action. Plaintiff argues this claim can be maintained based on
his equitable interest in the subject properties based on the allegations of
fraud. 
Plaintiffs’ argument is unavailing. First, the cause of action for the quiet
title is not based on a real property claim; it's based on a claim for interest
in Pacific and ILU. Compl. ¶¶ 20-26. Second, plaintiff fails to provide
authority that controverts defendants’ contention that an equitable owner can
bring a quiet title action. 
Finally, plaintiff fails to establish the probable validity of his real
property claim by a preponderance of the evidence. The complaint alleges Chiaravanond
induced plaintiff to invest in two separate LLCs, which purchased, held and
managed the properties. Id. The revenue generated from the properties
would fund Huynh’s retirement. Id. ¶ 26. The claim does not involve the interest
in or possession of the real properties, but, rather, the proceeds generated
from them. GRANTED.