  Case Number:  22STCV41100    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




martha kodama

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
university of southern
   california

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV41100




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   25, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to second amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of second amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant University of
Southern California
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Martha Kodama
(1)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants plaintiff
Martha Kodama’s request that the court take judicial notice of the Second
Amended Complaint.  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d).) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Martha Kodama
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint in this action
against defendant University of Southern California (“Defendant”) and Doe
defendants on September 27, 2023. 
Plaintiff alleges 10 causes of action for (1) negligence; (2)
negligence; (3) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (4) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision; (5) sexual assault; (6) sexual battery; (7)
sexual harassment; (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (9) gender
violence; and (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Defendant now moves the court
for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to Plaintiff’s first, third, and fifth
through 10th causes of action, and (2) striking from the Second Amended
Complaint the prayer for treble damages. 
DEMURRER
            The
court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to all the causes of action alleged against
it in Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint because the Second Amended Complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since the facts
alleged show that each cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.10, subd. (e), 340.16; Childs v. State of California (1983) 144
Cal.App.3d 155, 161 [“when a complaint shows on its face that it is barred by a
statute of limitations, a general demurrer may be sustained”].) 
Plaintiff’s action against
Defendant is based on the sexual abuse, rape, and assault of Plaintiff in
November 1982 and Defendant’s vicarious liability for the torts committed by
the Doe defendants, including Doe defendant 1, who is alleged to be the perpetrator
that committed the sexual abuse, rape, and assault of Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶¶ 25, 81, 83.)  “In any action for recovery of damages
suffered as a result of sexual assault, where the assault occurred on or after
the plaintiff’s 18th birthday, the time for commencement of the action shall be
the later of the following: [¶] (1) Within 10 years from the date of the last
act, attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an act, of sexual
assault against the plaintiff.  [¶]  (2) Within three years from the date the
plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that an injury or
illness resulted from an act, attempted act, or assault with the intent to
commit an act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd. (a).)  
Thus, Plaintiff’s claims for
recovery of damages suffered as a result of sexual assault would have expired
at the end of November 1992 (i.e., 10 years after the month that the sexual
assault occurred) or December 1992 (i.e., 10 years after the approximate month
that Plaintiff discovered a resultant injury or illness).  (SAC ¶¶ 25 [alleging date of sexual
assault to be in “the month of November 1982”], 27 [alleging that, “shortly
after” the sexual assault, Plaintiff was diagnosed with vaginitis and gonorrhea];
Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a).) 
However, “any claim seeking to
recover damages suffered as a result of a sexual assault that occurred on or
after the plaintiff’s 18th birthday that would otherwise be barred before
January 1, 2023, solely because the applicable statute of limitations has or
had expired, is hereby revived, and a cause of action may proceed if already
pending in court on January 1, 2023, or, if not filed by that date, may be
commenced between January 1, 2023, and December 31, 2023.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd.
(e)(1).)  This statute “revives claims
brought by a plaintiff who alleges all of the following: [¶] (A) The plaintiff
was sexually assaulted.  [¶]  (B) One or more entities are legally
responsible for damages arising out of the sexual assault.  [¶] 
(C)  The entity or entities, including,
but not limited to, their officers, directors, representatives, employees, or
agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a previous instance or
allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of such abuse.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd.
(e)(2).)  A “‘[c]over up’ means a
concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault that
incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating to a
sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,
including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or
confidentiality agreements.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 340.16, subd. (e)(4)(A).) 
The court finds that Plaintiff
has not alleged specific facts establishing that Defendant engaged in a cover
up or attempted a cover up and therefore has not alleged facts showing that her
claims have been revived by Code of Civil Procedure section 340.16.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd.
(e)(2)(C); Gentry v. eBay, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 816, 824 [where
the complaint reveals the existence of an affirmative defense, the plaintiff
must plead around the defense by alleging specific facts to avoid the defense];
Cf. Long v. Forty Niners Football Co.,
LLC (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 550, 555
[“Where a claim is time-barred on its face, the plaintiff must specifically
plead facts that would support equitable tolling”].)  
First, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations that “Defendant or their officers[,] directors[,
]representatives, employees or agents engaged in the cover up or attempted
cover up of previous instances or allegations of sexual assault” by the alleged
perpetrator (SAC ¶¶ 39, 71) are conclusory, not supported by the other
facts alleged in the Second Amended Complaint, and therefore are insufficient
to allege that Defendant engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a
previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of
such abuse.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 340.16, subds. (e)(2)(C), (e)(4)(A); Travelers Indemnity Company of
Connecticut v. Navigators Specialty Insurance Company (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
341, 358 [court does not accept as true contentions, deductions, or conclusions
of law on demurrer].)  
Second, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations that, although Defendant was aware that sexual crimes
have been committed since at least the 1960s (SAC ¶ 73) and that over 200
cases of sexual assault have occurred on its campus through 2022 (SAC
¶ 76), Defendant failed to take reasonable steps to prevent further
attacks (SAC ¶¶ 73, 74, 76-77), do not allege the existence of a cover up
within the meaning of section 340.16 since Plaintiff did not allege facts
establishing that Defendant (1) made a concerted effort to hide evidence of
those sexual assaults, or (2) prevented information relating to those sexual
assaults from becoming public or disclosed to Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd.
(e)(4)(A).)   
Third, the court finds that
the allegation relating to the alleged cover up of the rape of Plaintiff “by [Defendant’s]
not mentioning nor publishing that she was raped in the Trojan Newspaper of
[the] December 1982 issue” (SAC ¶¶ 44, 75) does not allege a cover up
within the meaning of section 340.16 since (1) this does not allege the
existence of a cover up “of a previous instance or allegations of sexual
assault[,]” and (2) even if it had alleged that Defendant did not publish a
previous instance of sexual assault, Plaintiff did not allege facts
establishing that Defendant, in opting not to publish such a report, made a
concerted effort to hide evidence or “prevent[ed]” this information from
becoming public.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 340.16, subds. (e)(2)(C) [emphasis added], (e)(4)(A).)  Similarly, the allegations relating to
Defendant’s psychologist/psychiatrist and campus police force (SAC ¶¶ 44, 75)
do not set forth facts showing that Defendant made a concerted effort to hide
evidence or to prevent information relating to a sexual assault from becoming
public or being disclosed to Plaintiff. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.16, subd. (e)(4)(A).)
Fourth, the court finds that
the allegation that Defendant “covered up their knowledge of [the
perpetrator’s] sexual assault and abuse of Plaintiff and other students at the
offending student housing” (SAC ¶ 78) does not allege a cover up
within the meaning of section 340.16 since (1) as to Plaintiff, this does not
allege the existence of a cover up “of a previous instance or allegations of
sexual assault[,]” and (2) this does not allege facts establishing that
Defendant hid evidence relating to a sexual assault or prevented information
relating to a sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to
Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 340.16, subds. (e)(2)(C), (e)(4)(A).) 

Thus, because court finds that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that Defendant or its officers,
directors, representatives, employees, or agents “engaged in a cover up or
attempted a cover up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by
an alleged perpetrator of such abuse[,]” the court finds that (1) Plaintiff has
not alleged facts establishing that her action for recovery of damages suffered
as a result of sexual assault has been revived by section 340.16, and therefore
(2) Plaintiff’s action is, on the face of the Second Amended Complaint,
necessarily barred by the 10-year statute of limitations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (a),
(e); Childs, supra, 144 Cal.App.3d at p. 161.)  
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves the court for an order striking Plaintiff’s prayer for
treble damages.  
For the reasons set forth above, the court has sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint in its entirety.  The court therefore Defendant’s motion to
strike as moot.
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant
University of Southern California’s demurrer to plaintiff Martha Kodama’s
Second Amended Complaint. 
            The court denies as moot defendant
University of Southern California’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff
Martha Kodama’s Second Amended Complaint. 
            The court grants plaintiff Martha
Kodama leave to file a Third Amended Complaint that cures the defects set forth
in this ruling within 20 days of the date of this order.   
            The court orders defendant
University of Southern California, LLC to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 25, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court