 Case Number:  23STCV18030    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




sharleyne martin, on behalf of all aggrieved employees

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
the ritz-carlton hotel
   company, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV18030




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   25, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel individual
  arbitration and to dismiss action
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant The Ritz-Carlton
Hotel Company, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Sharleyne Martin, on behalf of all aggrieved
employees
Motion to Compel Individual Arbitration and to Dismiss Action
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendant The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, LLC’s request for judicial notice of various
unpublished superior court orders.  (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 8.1115.) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, LLC (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order (1) compelling plaintiff Sharleyne Martin (“Plaintiff”) to
submit her individual claims under the Private Attorney General Act of 2004
(Lab. Code, § 2968, et seq.) (“PAGA”) to binding arbitration, and (2) staying
the non-individual PAGA claims pending completion of arbitration.
1.     Existence
of Written Agreement to Arbitrate
A
written provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 2.)¿ The
Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) (“FAA”) requires courts to
direct parties to proceed to arbitration on issues covered by an arbitration
agreement upon a finding that the making of the arbitration agreement is not in
issue.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir.
2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role under the [FAA] is therefore
limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and,
if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron
Corp., supra, 207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a
‘liberal federal policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental
principle that arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ To determine
the existence of an agreement, the court uses “a three-step burden-shifting
process.”  (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747,
755.)  “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim, or provide a
copy of, the alleged agreement.  [Citations.]  A movant can bear this
initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly
bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”  (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)  “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”  (Ibid.)  If the opposing
party meets its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual
dispute” as to the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the
arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.) 
 
First, the
court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show that the arbitration
agreement that is the subject of this motion is governed by the substantive
provisions of the FAA.  (Evenskaas v.
California Transit, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party
asserting the FAA applies to an agreement has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA
coverage by declarations and other evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].)  Defendant has
submitted (1) the arbitration agreement, which expressly states that
“arbitration under this Agreement is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act,”
and (2) evidence establishing that Defendant “engages in transactions involving
interstate commerce on a daily basis as it provides lodging to guests which
include international and out of state business travelers and tourists,
including at its Marina del Rey property.” 
(McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Employee agreement, p. 20; McCarron Decl.,
¶ 9; Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 337, 345 [parties may adopt FAA], 346 [FAA provides for the
enforcement of arbitration agreements in contracts evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce].)  Thus,
the court finds, and Plaintiff does not appear to dispute, that the FAA
applies. 
Second, the
court finds that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie evidence
of an arbitration agreement between it and Plaintiff.
Defendant has
submitted a copy of “The Ritz-Carlton Employee Agreement” (the “Agreement”),
which purports to bear Plaintiff’s signature. 
(McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p. 20.)  The arbitration provision set forth in the
Agreement states that it “is an agreement between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant]
through which [Defendant] and [Plaintiff] agree to submit to final and binding
arbitration all legal and/or equitable claims one may have against the other,
including claims related in any way to [Plaintiff’s] employment or the
separation of [her] employment with [Defendant], except those claims that are
expressly excluded from the scope of this Agreement.”  (Ibid.)  The arbitration provision further explains
that Plaintiff must pursue arbitration to assert a covered claim against
Defendant “based on any violation of statutory or common law, including but not
limited to:  . . . wage claims . . . and
claims for violation of any federal, state, local or other governmental law,
constitution, statute, regulation, or ordinance. . . .”  (Ibid.) 
Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has submitted evidence of an arbitration agreement
between it and Plaintiff.  The court also
finds that the arbitration provision in the Agreement encompasses the wage and
hour claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint because (1) the Agreement defines
covered claims to include “wage claims” and claims asserting violations of any
state law, and (2) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant did not pay overtime
wages and all wages due upon the end of employment in violation of Labor Code
sections 510, 201, and 202.  (McCarron
Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p. 20; Compl., ¶¶ 13-16, 18.) 
Third, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to identify a
factual dispute as to the existence of the Agreement.  Plaintiff has not argued that she did not
sign the Agreement, nor has she presented other evidence disputing its
authenticity. 
Thus,
the court finds that Defendant has shown that there exists an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
2.    
Unconscionability
Plaintiff contends that the
arbitration provision in the Agreement is unconscionable and therefore
unenforceable. 
“‘[A]greements
to arbitrate [may] be invalidated by “generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” ’”¿ (Beco, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 302.)¿ “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.”¿ (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126
(Kho).)¿ “Unconscionability entails an absence of meaningful choice on
the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are
unreasonably favorable to the other party.”¿ (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 759 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ It “‘has both a
“procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results.”¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [citations omitted].)¿ “As a
matter of general contract law, California courts require both procedural and
substantive unconscionability to invalidate a contract.”¿ (Torrecillas v.
Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (Torrecillas).)¿
Courts “apply a sliding scale, meaning if one of these elements is present to
only a lesser degree, then more evidence of the other element is required to
establish overall unconscionability.¿ In other words, if there is little of
one, there must be a lot of the other.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
i.                
Procedural
Unconscionability 
“Procedural
unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement . . . .”¿ (Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)¿ It “‘“focuses on two
factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’¿ [Citations.]¿ ‘Oppression’ arises from
an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ [Citations.]¿ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to
which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”’”¿ (Zullo
v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484 [citations
omitted].)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
1.     Oppression
As
set forth above, “[o]ppression occurs where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice . . . .”  (Kho, supra,
8 Cal.5th at p. 126 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
“Oppression generally ‘takes the form of a contract of adhesion, “‘which,
imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to
the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject
it.’”’”¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).)  “‘The circumstances
relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the
amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the
amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract;
(3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the
challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5)
whether the party’s review of the proposed contract as aided by an
attorney.’”  (Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at pp. 126-127.)  
The court
finds that Plaintiff has shown that the Agreement was offered to her as a
condition of her employment and therefore has shown that the Agreement,
including the arbitration agreement set forth therein, is a contract of
adhesion.  (Martin Decl., ¶ 4 [the
Agreement “was a document presented to [Plaintiff] for mandatory signature by
Defendant as a condition of [her] employment”].)  The court finds that Plaintiff has
established a low level of procedural unconscionability due to the adhesive
nature of the Agreement.  (Fisher v.
MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021)
66 Cal.App.5th 1084, 1095 [“An adhesive contract does . . . establish at lease
some degree of procedural unconscionability”].) 
2.     Surprise
As
discussed above, “[s]urprise is when a prolix printed form conceals the
arbitration provision.”¿ (Torrecillas, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 493; Fisher,
supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at p. 1095 [“Surprise involves the extent to which
‘the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms’”].) 
Plaintiff contends that surprise exists because the “crux” of the
arbitration agreement was hidden in a large number of other employment-related
documents.  (Martin Decl., ¶ 4
[stating that the Agreement was presented to her “alongside dozens, if not
hundreds, of additional employment related documents”].)  The court agrees that surprise exists here. 
The Agreement consists of 20 pages, and although arbitration is
discussed and explained on pages 11 through 15, those pages do not expressly
state that the employee (here, Plaintiff) is entering into a binding
arbitration agreement with Defendant. 
(McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, pp. 11-15.)  Instead, those pages (1) define arbitration,
(2) explain how to request arbitration, (3) set forth the selection process of
an arbitrator, (4) define the claims covered by the agreement, and (5) explain
part of the arbitration proceedings (such as discovery and presentation of
testimony).  (Ibid.)  Although an agreement is referred to in
certain of those pages, the full agreement to arbitrate is set forth at the end
of the Agreement, on the 20th page. 
(McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p. 20.)  The court also notes that (1) the font of the
arbitration provision is smaller than the font used in the preceding portions
of the Agreement, and (2) the text of the arbitration provision is denser than
the preceding portions of the Agreement, in that the page containing the
arbitration provision appears to use a narrower righthand margin and fewer
spaces between the paragraphs.  (McCarron
Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, pp. 3-15, 20.) 
Thus, the court finds that, because the arbitration provision was (1)
included on the last page of a 20-page employee agreement and (2) used smaller
font and denser spacing between the paragraphs, there exists surprise.  (Hasty v. American Automobile Assn. etc. (2023)
98 Cal.App.5th 1041, 1056 [surprise occurs when an arbitration agreement is
written in small font with visually impenetrable paragraphs].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has established a moderate level of
procedural unconscionability based on (1) the adhesive nature of the Agreement,
and (2) the format in which the agreement to arbitrate was presented to
Plaintiff. 
ii.              
Substantive Unconscionability
“‘Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.¿ [Citations.]¿ A
contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side
a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock the
conscience.’”’”¿ (Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85.)¿
“‘“[T]he paramount consideration in assessing [substantive] unconscionability
is mutuality.”’”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
First, the
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that the arbitration agreement
lacks mutuality. 
On the page
containing the arbitration provision (entitled “Acknowledgment of Agreement”),
there is a provision that states as follows: 
“Upon the successful completion of my Introductory Period, I [i.e., the
employee] will receive the rights and benefits in this Agreement.”  (McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p.
20.)  However, the Agreement does not
include a similar provision as to Defendant. 
The court notes that, in reply, Defendant argues that “[n]one of the[]
post Introductory Period benefits have anything to do with the bilateral nature
of the arbitration provision.”  (Reply,
p. 8:23-24.)  The court disagrees.  The provision set forth above is included in
the Agreement’s arbitration provision and does not specify that the right to
compel or bring claims in arbitration is not included in the “rights and
benefits of” the Agreement.  (McCarron
Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p. 20.) 
Because (1)
the right to arbitration is included in the Agreement, (2) Plaintiff is only
permitted to “receive the rights and benefits in this Agreement” upon the
completion of the Introductory Period, which includes the right to compel
arbitration, and (3) Defendant is permitted to receive the rights and benefits
of the Agreement as of the date of its execution, the court finds that the
arbitration provision is one-sided and therefore substantively unconscionable.
Second, the court finds that the provisions requiring the waiver of the
ability to bring representative claims are substantively unconscionable. 
The Agreement sets forth the following waiver:  “You and [Defendant] expressly waive any
right with respect to any Covered Claims to submit, initiate, or participate in
a representative capacity, or as a plaintiff, claimant, or member in a class,
collective action, representative and/or joint action, regardless of whether
the action is filed in arbitration or in court.”  (McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p. 15.)  Above the signature line on the page
containing the arbitration provision, there is further language stating that,
by signing the agreement, Plaintiff understands and agrees that she is “waiving
. . . the ability to bring a class or other aggregated claim . . . .”  (Id. at p. 20.)  However, “a predispute categorical waiver of
the right to bring a PAGA action is unenforceable . . . .”  (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104, 1117.)  Defendant does
not dispute this point.  (Reply, p.
9:21-23 [“it is true that a wholesale PAGA waiver is unenforceable . . . .”].) 
Thus, the court finds that the waiver provisions violate California
public policy, are unenforceable, and therefore are substantively
unconscionable. 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has established a high level
of substantive unconscionability based on (1) the lack of mutuality in the
provision delaying Plaintiff’s ability to “receive the rights and benefits” of
the arbitration agreement in the Agreement without similarly delaying
Defendant’s ability to receive those rights and benefits, and (2) the
predispute waivers of the right to bring representative actions.
The court further finds that these provisions cannot be severed under
the terms of the Agreement.  The court
acknowledges, as Defendant has pointed out, that the Agreement includes the
following severability provision:  “The
terms of the arbitration component of this Agreement are severable.”  (McCarron Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, p.
20.)  However, this provision is
expressly directed to the severability of terms set forth in “the arbitration
component” of the Agreement.  (Ibid.
[emphasis added].)  Defendant has not
shown that the (1) waiver of Plaintiff’s right to bring a representative
action, or (2) provision delaying Plaintiff’s ability to receive the rights and
benefits of the entire Agreement are set forth only in the “arbitration
component” of the Agreement.  (McCarron
Decl., Ex. A, Agreement, pp. 15 [waiver of right to bring representative
action], 3 [additional provision specifying that Plaintiff will not receive the
rights and benefits of the Agreement until completion of the Introductory
Period].) 
 The court also finds it
appropriate, and exercises its discretion, to decline to sever the
substantively unconscionable provisions of the Agreement. 
“If the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any clause of
the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the court may
refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract
without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any
unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.”  (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).)  “The trial court has discretion under
[section 1670.5] to refuse to enforce an entire agreement if the agreement is
permeated by unconscionability.”  (Gostev
v. Skillz Platform, Inc. (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1035, 1062 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].)  “The
overarching inquiry is whether the interests of justice . . . would be
furthered by severance.”  (Beco, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 313 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
Here, the court finds that the Agreement is permeated by
unconscionability.  As set forth above,
there are two provisions in the Agreement that, in showing a lack of mutuality
and requiring a waiver of Plaintiff’s right to bring a representative action, establish
a high level of substantive unconscionability. 
“‘Such multiple defects indicate a systematic effort to impose
arbitration on an employee not simply as an alternative to litigation, but as
an inferior forum that works to the employer’s advantage.’”  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at
p. 313; Navas v. Fresh Venture Foods, LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 637
[“Given the number of challenged provisions, the court could reasonably find
severance was not an acceptable option”].)  
Thus, the court finds that severance would not serve the interests of
justice and therefore exercises its discretion (1) to decline to sever the
unconscionable provisions and (2) to refuse to enforce the Agreement and the
arbitration provision therein.  (Civ.
Code, § 1670.50, subd. (a).)
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
and dismiss action.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, LLC’s motion to compel arbitration and dismiss
action.
            The court orders defendant The
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, LLC to file an answer to the Complaint within 10
days of the date of this order.    
            The court orders plaintiff Sharleyne
Martin to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 25, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court