

Hearing Date:             July
31, 2024
Case Name:                Katie Schwartz v. Elm
Enterprises LLC, a California limited liability corporation, Denmar Investment
Co., Inc., a California corporation, and Does 1 through 20
Case No.:                    22STCV10256
Motion:                       Motion
for Leave to Amend First Amended Complaint
Moving
Party:             Successor in Interest
Kerri Stern

Responding Party:      Defendants Elm Enterprises LLC and Denmar
Investment Co., Inc.


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion is granted in
part and denied in part.
 

 
On March 24, 2022, Plaintiff Katie
Schwartz (“Schwartz”) filed an action against Defendants Elm Enterprises LLC
(“Elm”), Denmar Investment Co., Inc. (“Denmar”), and Does 1-20, (collectively
“Defendants”) arising out of a residential rental agreement.  Plaintiff alleges that she rented a
residential property owned and managed by Defendants and Defendants failed to
maintain the property in habitable conditions despite numerous complaints.
 
On July 1, 2022, Defendants filed a
Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  On July
22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (3) breach of warranty of habitability, (4) negligence, (5)
nuisance, (6) trespass to land, (7) tenant harassment, (8) unfair business
practices, (9) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (11)
retaliation/constructive eviction.  As a
result, Defendants took the Demurrer and Motion to Strike off calendar.
 
On August 22, 2022, Defendants
filed another Demurrer with Motion to Strike as to the FAC.  On September 28, 2022, the Court overruled
the Demurrer in its entirety and granted the Motion to Strike in part, solely
as to paragraph 61 of the FAC, with 20 days leave to answer.  Defendants filed an Answer to the FAC on
October 17, 2021. 
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Notice of Settlement.  However, on June
10, 2024, Defendants objected to the filed Notice, stating that even though
they believed an agreement had been reached following mediation on May 28,
2024, they had recently learned that Plaintiff had passed away on March 26,
2024.
 
On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend FAC after Plaintiff’s Death.  Defendants filed an Opposition on July 18,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a Reply on July 24, 2024.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A.    Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend is permitted under
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(a) and § 576. 
The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same
dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend
can be justified.  [Citation.]”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1422.)  Notwithstanding
the “policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at
any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this
policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party
. . . .’ [citation].  A
different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” 
(Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth
explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating
what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment
was not made earlier.  The motion must
also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2)
specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be
deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and
propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(a), (b).)
 
B.    Successor in Interest
 
“On motion after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s
personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 377.31.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32
provides the following:
 
(a)  
The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following:
 
(1)  The
decedent’s name.
(2)  The
date and place of the decedent’s death.
(3)  “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.”
(4)  If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
(5)  Either
of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
(A)  “The
affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in
Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
(B)  “The
affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
(6)  “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
(7)  “The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(b)  Where
more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this section,
the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to
reflect that fact.
 
(c)  
A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate
shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
 
Discussion
 
            Kerri
Stern (“Stern”), Plaintiff’s sister and successor in interest, moves for an
order to amend the First Amended Complaint and to substitute herself as the
Plaintiff in action due to the death of Plaintiff Schwartz, and to add the
cause of action for wrongful death. 
(Mot. pp. 1-2.)  The motion is
made on the grounds of inadvertence, mistake, or reasonable neglect.  A copy of the Second Amended Complaint is
attached as Exhibit 1.  (Lavi Decl. ¶ 2,
Ex. 1.)
 
According to Stern,
Schwartz passed away on March 26, 2024; a copy of her certified death
certificate is attached as Exhibit A. 
(Stern Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. A.) 
Schwartz did not have a spouse or children and passed away without a
will.  (Ibid. at ¶ 2.)  There are no proceedings pending in
California or any other state for the administration of Schwartz’s estate.  (Ibid. at ¶ 3.)  Stern is the successor in interest to the estate
of Schwartz and has full authority to proceed with the instant litigation; no
other person has a superior right to commence this action.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
In opposition, Defendants
argue that the Motion should be denied because Stern has failed to present the
Court with sufficient evidence that she was appointed as personal
representative of the estate of Katie Schwartz. 
(Oppos. p. 2.)  Defendants also
argue that the Court should deny Stern’s request to add the cause of action for
“wrongful death” because the proposed pleading does not present any allegations
as to the cause of Schwartz’s death and would be subject to demurrer or motion
to strike.  (Ibid. at p. 3.)
 
In her Reply, Stern has
submitted the Certificate of Death for Katie Schwartz, which was previously
missing.  She also states that there is
no personal representative in the matter as Schwartz passed away without any
assets and there is no estate to administer. 
(Reply p. 2.)  Stern also
states that Defendants are improperly arguing the merits of the wrongful death
claim in their Opposition.  (Ibid.)
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court finds that
Stern has impermissibly filed two separate motions as a
single motion.  Combining motions allows
the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees.  Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is
mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them.  (See Duran v. St. Luke's Hospital
(2003) 114 Cal. App. 4th 457, 460; Gov. Code § 70617(a).)  Here, Stern paid a single filing fee for what
should have been two separate motions.
 
A.    Leave to Amend
 
Stern has not
complied with the procedures of California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 in moving to amend the FAC as she has not specified
the effect, necessity, and propriety of the amendments, or why she is seeking
to amend the Complaint nearly 100 days after the passing of Plaintiff
Schwartz.  Accordingly, Stern’s request
to amend the FAC is denied without prejudice.
 
B.    Substitute Successor in Interest
 
The Court finds that Stern has complied with the procedural
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32.  Stern’s declaration, executed under penalty
of perjury under the laws of the state of California, lists her sister’s name,
date and location of death, and encloses a certified copy of Plaintiff
Schwartz’s death certificate.  Moreover,
it sets forth that there are no pending proceedings for the administration of
Schwartz’s estate, Stern is Schwartz’s successor in interest, and there are no
persons with a superior right to commence the action. 
 
            Accordingly, Stern’s request to be
substituted as successor in interest to Plaintiff Schwartz in this instant
action is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
            Kerri
Stern’s Motion for Leave to Amend First Amended Complaint after Plaintiff’s
Death is granted in part.  Stern’s
request to be substituted as successor in interest to Plaintiff Katie Schwartz
is granted.  Stern’s request to amend the
First Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for wrongful death is denied
without prejudice.