

Hearing Date:             July 31, 2024
Case Name:                 Escalera v. Saberi
Case
No.:                    23STCP04162
Motion:                       Motion
to Vacate Judgment on Final Decision of the Labor Commissioner
Moving
Party:             Non-Party Labor Commissioner

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Rachelle Escalera


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion to vacate the
judgment is denied.
 

 
Background
 
On November 8, 2023, the Labor
Commissioner filed a Request that the Clerk Enter Judgment on an award the
Commissioner had rendered in favor of plaintiff Rachelle Escalera (“Plaintiff”)
against defendant Sean Saberi (“Defendant”). Plaintiff’s initial claim before
the Commissioner was for more than $90,000.00, and the Commissioner awarded her
more than $125,000.00. For unexplained reasons, the ultimate judgment was for
$47,636.87. (Lab. Commr. Order (“LCO”), pp. 1, 11-12 [attachment to Petition].)
 
Defendant did not appear before the
Commissioner for the hearing on Plaintiff’s claim. (Id., at p. 5.)
Defendant has also made no appearance in this case.
 
The clerk entered judgment in
Plaintiff’s favor on November 13, 2023 for $47,636.87.
 
On January 31, 2024, the
Commissioner filed an “Application and Order to Vacate Judgment on Final Order
of the Labor Commissioner”. The Commissioner did not attempt to set a hearing
on its Application, and the Court took no action.
 
On June 13, 2024, the Commissioner
filed this noticed motion to vacate the judgment entered in November 2023. 
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff, the
judgment creditor, filed a memorandum opposing the Commissioner’s motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
“[California’s]
Labor Commissioner is authorized to investigate employee complaints. The Labor
Commissioner may provide for a hearing in any action to recover wages,
penalties, and other demands for compensation, including liquidated damages  ... , and shall determine all matters arising
under his or her jurisdiction. The Labor Commissioner may also provide for a
hearing to recover civil penalties due pursuant to Section 558 against any
employer or other person acting on behalf of an employer, including, but not
limited to, an individual liable pursuant to Section 558.1. ... .” (Lab. Code,
§ 98(a).)
 
If the Commissioner
hears an employee complaint and makes a determination, then “[t]he Labor
Commissioner shall file, within 10 days of the order becoming final pursuant to
subdivision (d), a certified copy of the final order with the clerk of the
superior court of the appropriate county ... . Judgment shall be entered
immediately by the court clerk in conformity therewith. The judgment so entered
has the same force and effect as, and is subject to all of the provisions of
law relating to, a judgment in a civil action, and may be enforced in the same
manner as any other judgment of the court in which it is entered. Enforcement
of the judgment shall receive court priority.” (Id., § 98.2(e).)
 
Discussion
 
The Commissioner’s motion is
denied.
 
Upon a final determination, the
Labor Commissioner must confirm the judgment for a prevailing plaintiff. (See
Lab. Code, § 98.2(e) [Commissioner shall obtain final judgment within ten days
of its determination].) The statute that imposes this obligation on the
Commissioner does not grant it any special rights to modify or challenge the
judgment after the fact. In fact, the Commissioner cannot enforce the judgment,
much less vacate it, after entry without a plaintiff/employee’s consent. (See id.,
§ 98.6(a) [Commissioner “may, with the consent of any employee in whose
favor the judgment is entered, collect any outstanding amount ...” (emphasis
added)].) 
 
The Commissioner had a special
statutory authority and obligation to enter judgment on Plaintiff’s behalf. But
it cites no authority for the proposition that it maintains any rights over the
judgment thereafter.
 
Also, the Commissioner relies on
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). It appears to argue that because the
Commissioner was mistaken to proceed with its determination, the Court should
grant the Commissioner relief. But the plain language of section 473 permits
the Court to “relieve a party ... from a judgment ... taken against him
or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence”, etc. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b) (italics added).) The Commissioner is not a party; there is no
judgment taken against the Commissioner; and the Commissioner does not attest
that the judgment debtor committed any mistake. 
 
Even if Defendant petitioned for
relief on his own behalf, the petition would be premature. The Labor Code
requires that a defaulted respondent in a Commissioner hearing apply to the
Commissioner under section 473 before he may apply to the Court. (See Lab.
Code, § 98(f).) “No right to relief [under section 473], including the claim
that the findings or award of the Labor Commissioner or judgment entered
thereon are void upon their face, shall accrue to the defendant in any court
unless prior application is made to the Labor Commissioner ... .” (Ibid.)
So although the Defendant might have standing to seek relief, there is a
condition precedent that has not been satisfied.
 
The Commissioner’s point is
well-taken that Defendant’s bankruptcy throws the present enforceability of the
judgment into question. However, a judgment entered against a debtor in
bankruptcy is not void, but voidable – and it is only voidable by the bankrupt
debtor (not creditors or third parties). (See Danko v. O’Reilly (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 732, 748 [“ ‘[i]f the debtor or trustee chooses not to invoke
the protections of the automatic stay, no other party may attack any act in
violation of the automatic stay’ ”].) 
 
“ ‘ “[A] voidable contract is one
which may be rendered null at the option of one of the parties, but it is not
void until so rendered.” ’ ” (Guthman v. Moss (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 501,
509-510.) Here, the bankrupt debtor has not petitioned for relief. In fact, the
only party appearing is the judgment creditor, who contends the judgment
should not be vacated.
 
Neither the Labor Code nor Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 gives the Commissioner special standing to vacate the
judgment. And even if it is voidable due to the debtor’s bankruptcy, it is not void.

 
Conclusion
 
The motion to vacate the judgment is
denied.