

Hearing Date:             July 31, 2024 
Case Name:                 Emir Phillips v. Gary Fidler,
et al.
Case
No.:                    24STCV05755 
Motion:                       Demurrer
to Complaint 
Moving
Party:             Defendants Amanda
Robertson and Barham 22nd Street LLC (collectively, “Barham
Defendants”)
Joined
by:                   Defendants Gary
Fidler, esq & Gary D. Fidler, APLC (collectively, “Fidler Defendants”)

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Emir Phillips, in pro per


 
Tentative
Ruling:
 
            Barham
Defendants fail to establish that, accepting the allegations as true on
demurrer, Plaintiff fails to allege a serious invasion of privacy.  Barham Defendant’s Demurrer on this ground is
overruled.  
 
            However,
the sixth cause of action is uncertain, because it is unclear who it is
directed against.  The Demurrer is
therefore sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Fidler
Defendants’ request for joinder is granted. 

            
 
Background
 
            On March 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Gary Fidler, esq., Gary D.
Fidler APLC, Barham 22nd Street, LLC and Amanda Robertson.  Plaintiff alleges (1) defamation; (2) false
light; (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (5) breach of lease agreement; and (6) breach
of right of privacy.
 
            On July 16,
2024, the Court granted separate Special Motions to Strike of Fidler Defendants
and Barham, striking the first through fifth causes of action in their entirety
and the protected conduct alleged in the sixth cause of action.  The only remaining cause of action is the sixth
cause of action for invasion of privacy based on Defendant’s alleged
installation of security cameras on the rental premises.  
 
Discussion
            
            A.  Legal Standard
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
            B.  Defendants fail to establish that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not state a serious invasion of privacy as an issue of law
 
            Plaintiff
alleges “Defendant”[1]
invaded Plaintiff’s privacy by installing security cameras at the Property
without obtaining proper consent from the tenants and without regard for their
privacy rights.  (Complaint, 4:17-21.)  Plaintiff alleges the camera was installed in
retaliation for Hannah Mock filing and emailing “Defendant” a Domestic
Partnership.  (Id. at 5:1-7.)  Plaintiff alleges the camera was initially
set up in a way that looked into his apartment. 
(Id. at 5:3-5.)  Plaintiff
alleges the cameras were moved in response to his complaint to focus on the
ingress/egress of the property’s driveway and public sidewalk.  (Id. at 5:8-10.)  Plaintiff alleges the cameras were located
“in a manner that intrudes upon Plaintiff’s reasonable expectation of
privacy.”  (Id.at 8:21-26.)  
 
            The
elements of an invasion of privacy claim are (1) a legally protected interest;
(2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct
by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.  (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 37.) 
“Whether a legally recognized privacy interest is present in a given
case is a question of law to be decided by the court.... Whether plaintiff has
a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances and whether defendant's
conduct constitutes a serious invasion of privacy are mixed questions of law
and fact. If the undisputed material facts show no reasonable expectation of
privacy or an insubstantial impact on privacy interests, the question of
invasion may be adjudicated as a matter of law.”  (Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 40,)
            
            “To satisfy
the first element, the plaintiff must show the defendant penetrated some zone
of physical or sensory privacy surrounding, or obtained unwanted access to data
about, the plaintiff. The tort is proven only if the plaintiff had an
objectively reasonable expectation of seclusion or solitude in the place,
conversation or data source.  The
expectation of privacy need not be complete or absolute privacy. Rather,
privacy for purposes of the intrusion tort must be evaluated with respect to
the identity of the alleged intruder and the nature of the intrusion.  Determining offensiveness requires consideration
of all the circumstances of the intrusion, including its degree and setting and
the intruder's motives and objectives.” 
(Id. at 1259–1260.)  
 
            “The last of
these elements is intended simply to screen out intrusions on privacy that are
de minimis or insignificant.”  (Strawn
v. Morris, Polich & Purdy, LLP (2019) 30 Cal.App.5th 1087, 1098.)  “Actionable invasions of privacy must be
sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to
constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying the privacy
right.”  (Id. [reversing trial
court’s order sustaining demurrer to invasion of privacy cause of action
without leave to amend; seriousness of invasion of privacy based on defendant’s
inadvertent disclosure of insureds’ tax returns to insurer could not be
determined on demurrer and without reference to contents of disclosed returns].)       
 
            Barham
Defendants argue the alleged invasion was not serious, because the cameras
could only see through the front door of Plaintiff’s apartment when it was
open.  Barham Defendants also argue the
circumstances of the camera installation were not offensive as a matter of law.
 Contending that the cameras were
installed as part of ordinary property management practices, Barham Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not and cannot impugn the legitimacy of their motives.
They also argue the cameras were removed shortly after Plaintiff complained
about their placement.  
 
            Barham
Defendants ignore Plaintiff’s actual allegations and insert facts outside the
scope of the complaint.  Plaintiff does
not allege that the cameras could only see through the front door of
Plaintiff’s apartment when it was open. 
Plaintiff’s complaint only alleges that the cameras were set up to see
into “Apartment #1,” which is reasonably inferred to be his apartment.  (Complaint, 5:4-5; Exhibit 1, Letter to
Fidler dated 2/17/24, ¶2.)  
 
            Plaintiff also
alleges circumstances that would support a serious invasion of privacy.  Plaintiff alleges that the cameras were set
up in retaliation for Hannah Mock’s submission of evidence of a domestic
partnership.  (Complaint, 5:1-7.)  The parties were engaged in a dispute over
whether Mock was entitled to reside in Plaintiff’s apartment.  (Complaint, 3:24-4:1-10.)  Plaintiff alleges that once Mock submitted
evidence of the domestic partnership with Elena Escudero, they were considered
one roommate under the Lease Agreement and there was no basis to evict
them.  (Complaint, 4;1-4.)  Plaintiff’s allegations regarding Barham
Defendant’s motives and intent are allegations of ultimate fact that must be
accepted as true on demurrer.  
            
            The length
of time the cameras allegedly pointed into Plaintiff’s apartment does not establish
a de minimis invasion of privacy as an issue of law.  Based on Exhibit 1, the cameras were
installed on February 13, 2024, the day after Mock submitted evidence of the
domestic partnership.  (Complaint, Ex. 1,
Plaintiff’s Letter to Fidler dated 2/12/24 and Letter to Fidler dated
2/14/14.)  Based on Plaintiff’s February
17, 2024 letter to Fidler, the cameras had been moved by that date but it is
unclear precisely when the cameras were moved. 
(Complaint, Ex. 1, Plaintiff’s February 17, 2024 Letter to Fidler.)  The camera was therefore set up to look into
Plaintiff’s apartment for approximately three to four days.  Three to four days is not an insignificant
amount of time. In any case, at the pleading stage, the Court cannot say it is
per se de minimis.    
 
            Barham
Defendants’ reliance on Mezger v. Bick (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
76 and Hernandez v. Hillsides, Inc. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 272 is
misplaced. Both cases involved motions for summary judgment where the
defendants presented undisputed evidence as to the precise nature and
circumstances of the alleged invasions.  In
both cases, for example, the defendants established with undisputed evidence
that their motives were legitimate and not “conducted for socially repugnant or
unprotected reasons,” e.g. “harassment, blackmail, or prurient curiosity.”  (Hernandez, supra, 47 Cal.4th
at p. 297 [based on undisputed evidence, employer installed video surveillance
equipment to confirm strong suspicion based on publicized network tracking
measures that an unknown staff person was engaged in unauthorized and
inappropriate computer use at night]; Mezger, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 87-88 (neighbor defendant submitted undisputed evidence that
surveillance equipment on her property was set up due to legitimate security
concerns due to death threats against her).) 
At the pleading stage, the Court cannot resolve issues of fact regarding
the seriousness of the invasion of privacy or the strength of countervailing
factors justifying the installation of cameras. 

 
            Barham
Defendants fail to establish that, accepting the allegations as true on
demurrer, Plaintiff cannot allege a serious invasion of privacy.  Barham Defendant’s Demurrer on this ground is
overruled.
 
            C.  Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is
uncertain as it fails to identify which “Defendant” it is alleged against
 
            “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer based on uncertainty will only be sustained
where the complaint is so poorly drafted that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond. (Id.)
 
            In
the sixth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, “Defendant breached Plaintiff’s
privacy rights by installing security cameras at the Property without proper
consent and in a manner that intrudes upon Plaintiff’s reasonable expectation
of privacy within their home.” 
(Complaint, 7:23-25.)  The sixth
cause of action refers to “Defendant,” but it is unclear if Plaintiff intended
to  allege the sixth cause of action
against all Defendants or if he only intended to allege it against one of the
named Defendants.  For this reason,
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is uncertain. 
For that reason, it cannot be established that the Complaint states a
cause of action against any individual Defendant. Accordingly the demurrer to
the sixth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
            
Conclusion
 
            Barham
Defendants fail to establish that, accepting the allegations as true on
demurrer, Plaintiff have not alleged a serious invasion of privacy.  Barham Defendant’s Demurrer on this ground is
overruled.  
 
            However,
the sixth cause of action is uncertain. The Demurrer is therefore sustained
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff’s amended
complaint shall be served and filed on or before August 20, 2024.
 
            Fidler
Defendants’ request for joinder is granted. 

 


