

Hearing Date:             July 31, 2023  
Case Name:                 Kaveh Fasih v. The Purple Mixer,
Inc. d/b/a Miss Jones Baking Co. 
Case
No.:                    24STCV08425
Motion:                       Pro
Hac Vice
Moving
Party:             Amelia Courtney Hritz

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      GRANT Counsel Amelia
Courtney Hritz Motion for Pro Hac Vice  
 

 
On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff Kaveh Fasih the complaint
against Defendant The Purple Mixer, Inc. d/b/a Miss Jones Baking Co. alleging
common law fraud and violation of California consumers legal remedies act
California civil code § 1750, et seq.
 
Counsel Amelia Courtney Hritz, applies for admission to
practice before this Court pro hac vice, in order to represent Defendant, The
Purple Mixer, Inc. d/b/a Miss Jones Baking Co.
 
Pro hac vice admission in
California is governed by California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40.  To be
admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member
in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United
States court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular
possession of the United States.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(a).  However, in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice
if the attorney is a resident of California, regularly employed in California,
or “regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in the State of California.”  Ibid.   
 
An
attorney seeking pro hac vice admission must file a verified application
in both court and the State Bar of California establishing  
 
(1) [t]he applicant's residence
and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4)[t]hat the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro hac vice¿in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.  (California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d). )
 
Lastly, repeated applications for pro hac vice
appearance may result in denial.  California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(b).  
 
Here,
Counsel Hritz has complied with California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. Counsel Hritz is not a resident of California and is
admitted to practice in New York. (Hritz Decl. ¶¶ 1-4.) Counsel Hritz is a
member in good standing in the State of New York, South Carolina, and United
States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and in the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. (Id.
at ¶¶ 4-6.) Counsel has not been suspended or disbarred in any court. (Id.
at ¶ 7.) Moreover, Counsel states that she filed a pro hac vice
application on June 17, 2024, to appear pro hac vice once before a court in the
State of California regarding Stockbridge Treasure Island Investment
Company, LLC v. Kenwood Investments, LLC, No. CGC23 23-605626, Superior
Court of San Francisco but the decision is currently pending. (Id. at ¶ 8.) She also provided the name, address,
and telephone number of Matthew Borden, Esq. (SBN: 214323) and David H.
Kwasniewski, Esq. (281985) who are counsel of record on behalf of Defendant
Miss Jones. (Id. at ¶ 9.)
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Counsel’s motion to appear as counsel pro hac vice. 
 
 