 Case Number:  24PSCP00345    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner Katon Dominguez’s Petition to Enforce
Access to Medical Records Under Evidence Code § 1158 and Request for Attorney’s
Fees and Costs
Respondents: Southern
California Permanente Medical Group, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner Katon Dominguez’s Petition to Enforce
Access to Medical Records Under Evidence Code § 1158 is DEEMED MOOT.
Petitioner Katon Dominguez’s Request for Sanctions is
GRANTED against Respondent Southern California Permanente Medical Group
in the
amount of $1,222.50, payable within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this
order.
BACKGROUND
On July 17, 2024, Petitioner
Katon Dominguez filed the present petition against Respondents Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (SCPMG), Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (Kaiser
Hospitals), and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (Kaiser Health Plan,
collectively Kaiser).
A hearing on the present
petition is set for September 9, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Dominguez
petitions the court to order Kaiser to provide copies of Dominguez’s medical
records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1158. For the following reasons, the
court DENIES the petition as MOOT.
Legal Standard
Evidence
Code section 1158, subdivision (b) provides as follows:
“Before the filing of any action or the appearance
of a defendant in an action, if an attorney at law or his or her representative
presents a written authorization therefor signed by an adult patient, by the
guardian or conservator of his or her person or estate, or, in the case of a
minor, by a parent or guardian of the minor, or by the personal representative
or an heir of a deceased patient, or a copy thereof, to a medical provider, the
medical provider shall promptly make all of the patient’s records under the
medical provider’s custody or control available for inspection and copying by
the attorney at law or his or her representative.” (Evid. Code, § 1158, subd.
(b).)
If
a medical provider fails to make such records available within five (5) days
after receipt of the written authorization, the medical provider with “custody
of control of the records” may be subject “to liability for all reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred in any proceeding to enforce this
section.” (Evid. Code, § 1158, subd. (d).) Enforcement proceedings are
established in Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.7, which states “[w]hen a
medical provider fails to comply with Section 1158 of the Evidence Code, in
addition to any other available remedy, the demanding party may apply to the
court for an order to show cause why the records should not be produced.” The
court “shall impose monetary sanctions pursuant to Section 1158 of the Evidence
Code unless it finds that the person subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.7.)
Discussion
In
this case, Dominguez seeks to obtain anesthesia records from Kaiser for an orthopedic
surgery that Dominguez underwent on September 18, 2023, at Kaiser Permanente
Baldwin Park. On April 3, 2024, Dominguez’s counsel sent a letter to Kaiser
requesting Dominguez’s medical records. (Hemesath Decl., ¶ 2.) While Kaiser
provided some records on April 17, 2024, Dominguez’s counsel claims the
response was incomplete and omitted anesthesia records from Dominguez’s
surgery. (Hemesath Decl., ¶ 3.) After counsel demanded the additional records
through a paralegal, Kaiser’s staff responded on April 23, 2024, and stated
they would provide the additional records. (Hemesath Decl., ¶ 3.) When they
failed to do so, Dominguez’s counsel emailed Kaiser on April 26, 2024, and
warned that counsel would file a petition if Kaiser did not provide the records
within five (5) days. (Hemesath Decl., ¶ 3.) After Kaiser failed to provide the
additional records, Dominguez filed the present petition. (Hemesath Decl., ¶
3-4.) In opposition, Kaiser’s counsel claims they complied with Dominguez’s
request by providing the requested records on August 16, 2024, and additional
records on August 22, 2024. (Kind Decl., ¶ 3-5.) Based on this representation,
the court deems moot the petition by Dominguez, since the subject records were
produced.
However,
Dominguez also requests sanctions against Kaiser in the amount of $3,585.00. In
opposition, Kaiser contends the award of attorney fees and costs pursuant to
Evidence Code section 1158, subdivision (d) is discretionary and not mandatory.
But Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.7 states “the court shall
impose monetary sanctions pursuant to Section 1158 of the Evidence Code unless
it finds that the person subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”
Kaiser
next contends Kaiser acted in good faith and with substantial justification. In
making this contention, Kaiser claims Dominguez’s authorization form did not
substantially comply the form language outlined in Evidence Code section 1158. Kaiser
also claims the authorization form did not specifically request anesthesia
records. But Kaiser waived any challenge to these defects by agreeing to
respond to Dominguez’s request and failing to raise these objections prior to
the filing of the petition. In fact, Kaiser’s staff promised to provide the
missing records on three (3) separate occasions, yet failed to do so. (Hemesath
Decl., ¶ 3-4, Ex. B.) Because Kaiser’s delay in responding forced Dominguez to
file the present petition, the court finds sanctions are warranted.
Last,
Kaiser contends Kaiser Hospitals and Kaiser Health Plan are not proper parties
as Dominguez’s request for records was only directed to SCPMG. Upon review, the
court notes that while the record request was addressed to all three
respondents, Dominguez’s authorization only requests “information to be
released from” SCPMG. Thus, the court awards sanctions against SCPMG only and does
not award sanctions against the other entities.
Accordingly,
utilizing a lodestar approach and in view of the totality of the circumstances,
the court awards sanctions against SCPMG and finds reasonable attorney fees and
costs in the total of amount of $1,222.50 ($787.50 for 3.5 hours drafting the
motion and attending the hearing at an hourly rate of $225.00 plus $435.00 in
filing fees).
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Dominguez’s
petition is DEEMED MOOT.
Sanctions are awarded against
SCPMG in the amount of $1,222.50,
payable within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this order.