  Case Number:  23STCV00486    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Weds., January 15, 2025                                 JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Todd
v. Mohebbi, et al.                                   COMP. FILED:        01-10-23
CASE NUMBER:     23STCV00486                                    
           FAC FILED:             07-28-23
NOTICE:                   NO                                                                  XCOMP.
FILED:     11-13-23
TRIAL DATE:          N/A

                                                                                    

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO VACATE DEFAULT 
 
MOVING PARTY:   Cross-Defendant
Diane Todd 
RESP. PARTY:         Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nowzar
Mohebbi
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT ENTERED ON 06/17/2024 
(CCP §§ 473(b))
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant Diane Todd’s Motion to
Vacate Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED. The default entered on June 17,
2024 is hereby VACATED.
 
Cross-Defendant Diane Todd’s answer - ONLY
- to Nowzar Mohebbi’s Cross-Complaint to be filed within the next 10 days of
this Court’s ruling.
 
NOTE:  The Court
notes that the proposed amended answer to the Cross-Complaint (attached as
Exhibit E to the Declaration of Matthew Todd in Support of Motion to Vacate
Default of Diane Todd, filed 11/20/2024) is not appropriate, because Gregory
Todd has already filed an answer (as of 10/01/2024).  Since this would be the first responsive pleading
of Diane Todd an answer (NOT AMENDED) needs to be filed.
 
Cross-Defendant’s counsel is to pay
attorney’s fees and costs of $1,524.75 to Mohebbi’s counsel within 20 days of
this Court’s order. Cross-Defendant is to file an Answer within 10 days of this
order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
___________________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      NO 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       NO 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on December 26, 2024                                      [X] Late          [  ] None
REPLY:                     Filed
on December 30, 2024                                      [  ] Late           [ 
] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff Gregory
Todd (“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Nowzar Mohebbi (“Mohebbi”) and
Deluxe Escrow, Inc. (“Deluxe”) (“Defendants”) alleging causes of action for
Breach of Contract, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation,
Declaratory Relief, and Accounting. (Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
FAC.
 
On November 13, 2023, Mohebbi filed an
Answer to the FAC.
 
On November 13, 2023, Mohebbi filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff, Diane Todd (“Todd”), Deluxe, and Roes 1-25.
 
On December 28, 2023, Mohebbi filed
proof of service of the Cross-Complaint on Matthew Todd on behalf of Gregory
Todd and Todd via electronic service. 
 
Default was entered against Todd on
June 17, 2024.
 
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiff and Todd
filed an Answer to the Cross-Complaint.
 
On November 20, 2024, Todd filed the
instant “Notice of Motion and Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment” as
to Todd (the “Motion”). On December 26, 2024, Mohebbi filed an Opposition. On
December 30, 2024, Todd filed a Reply.
 
On December 27, 2024, Mohebbi filed a
Statement of the Status of Settlement Negotiations.
 
On December 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Proposed Joint Status Conference Statement per Court Order of 10/31/24.
 
On January 6, 2024, the Court held a
status conference and granted Plaintiff’s oral motion to continue the hearing
date on the Motion due to scheduling conflict. (1/6/25 Order.) Accordingly, the
Court continued the hearing on the Motion from January 8, 2025 to January 15,
2025. The Court also continued the hearing on the Order to Show Cause Re:
Status of Default on the Complaint as to Defendant Deluxe Escrow from January
6, 2025, to April 7, 2025. (1/6/25 Order.)
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
Before addressing the merits of the
Motion, the Court notes Todd gave improper notice of this hearing.
Specifically, the Notice of Motion incorrectly states that the Motion would be
heard on December 12, 2024, rather than January 8, 2025. 
 
However, given Mohebbi’s Opposition
which includes the correct original hearing date, the Court exercises its
discretion to hear the Motion on the merits. 
 
Additionally, the Court notes Mohebbi’s
Opposition is untimely and does not contain proof of service. However,
given Todd’s timely Reply, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the
Opposition’s arguments on the merits.
 
III.             
Legal
Standard 
 
The court has broad discretion to
vacate the entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving
party timely establishes a proper ground for relief. (Cruz v. Fagor America,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)  Code of Civil Procedure §
473, subdivision (b) contains two distinct provisions for relief from
default.  The first provision is discretionary and broad in scope,
providing: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b).) 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Section 473, subdivision (b)
is to promote the determination of actions on their merits.  (Even Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc.
v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 838-839.)   
 
IV.             
Discussion
 
A.    Moving Party Position
 
Todd moves to set aside the entry
of default and default judgment on the grounds of mandatory and discretionary
attorney mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Specifically, Todd
contends Todd’s attorney, Matthew P. Todd, (“Counsel”) failed to timely respond
to Mohebbi’s Cross-Complaint due to the deaths of three members of Counsel’s
immediate family and the “chaos” and “absence from the office” that proceeded
as a result. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶ 18.) While Counsel had met and
conferred extensively with Mohebbi prior to Todd being served with the
Cross-Complaint on the grounds Todd is not a party to this action and then Counsel
drafted a Demurrer in response to the Cross-Complaint once the Cross-Complaint
was filed, Counsel’s family tragedies waylaid Counsel’s earlier efforts. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶ 18.)
In navigating his family deaths, Counsel failed to file the Demurrer on behalf
of Todd – a fact he did not discover until after the entry of default – which
thus caused Todd’s lack of response to the Cross-Complaint. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶
18.) Todd requests the Court grant the Motion and vacate the default entered
against Todd and also requests attorney’s fees. (Motion, p. 10.) 
 
B.     Opposition
 
In Opposition, Mohebbi states he
and his counsel “sympathize with the unfortunate circumstances of opposing
counsel” but state they sadly to not “overshadow the overwhelming and
extraordinary efforts, counsel for Mohebbi made to beg, plead and prof Matthew Todd into
accepting service, answering the Complaint, and preventing a default.” (Opp., ¶
1, emphasis in original.) Mohebbi’s counsel tried three separate times in
writing to contact Todd “to offer to stipulate to the set aside of the
default if the hearing could be taken off calendar and if the cost of
drafting and filing a response could be avoided” to no response. (Opp., ¶ 2,
emphasis in original.) Mohebbi then states Todd is a mandatory necessary party
to this lawsuit, and “[a]ll the fluff regarding her distance and health
conditions are nothing more than a ploy to distract the Court with irrelevant
information.” (Opp., ¶ 4.) Finally, Mohebbi argues Counsel’s failure to timely
respond to the Cross-Complaint is part of a “continued and deliberate strategy
to drag out this case and cause as much expenditure of fees as possible.”
(Opp., ¶ 4.) Mohebbi also states it is mandatory for Counsel to pay the
reasonably attorneys’ fees and costs of Mohebbi and his attorney and further
requests the Court impose an additional monetary penalty against Todd. (Opp., ¶¶
3-4.)
 
C.     Reply 
 
In Reply, Todd argues the
Opposition is not supported by case law; the Opposition is based on
inconsistent, unsupported, and irrelevant evidence, and the stance of “ ‘go
ahead and file the demurrer’ approach taken by Mohebbi in meet and confer
discussions prior to the entry of default should “not be rewarded by denying
the instant motion.” (Reply, pp. 2-10.) Additionally, Todd argues attorney fees
should not be granted in favor of Mohebbi and highlights that Mohebbi’s
Opposition is not indicative of “opposing any contention of the Moving Papers
in a meaningful manner.” (Reply, pp. 10-11.) 
 
D.    Analysis
 
Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, Todd’s
Motion was filed on November 20, 2024, five months after default was entered
against her on June 17, 2024.
 
Here, Todd raises a claim for relief due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect by an attorney.
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).)  Counsel submitted a declaration in support of the
Motion admitting neglect by counsel in failing to timely act upon Mohebbi’s
Cross-Complaint. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶ 18.)
 
Since Counsel filed the Motion
less than six months from the entry of default, the Motion is timely as it
pertains to a request for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
default. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Mandatory
Relief from Default
 
            As an
initial matter, Todd moves to set aside the default entered against her and
default judgment. However, the Court notes that, to date, the Court’s
docket reflects that only default has been entered against Todd. Accordingly,
the Court will only address whether relief from default is warranted. 
 
            Here, the
Court finds there is sufficient evidence to warrant setting aside the default
entered against Todd. Counsel’s declaration established the default was entered due to Counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, error, or neglect. (Motion, Todd Decl.) Specifically, Counsel
declares he failed
to timely respond to Mohebbi’s Cross-Complaint due to the deaths of three
members of Counsel’s immediate family and the “chaos” and “absence from the
office” that ensued as a result. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶ 18.) Despite
diligently meeting and conferring with Mohebbi regarding the potential of a
Cross-Complaint and taking efforts to timely respond to the Cross-Complaint
upon its filing, Counsel’s family tragedies waylaid Counsel’s efforts, and
Counsel failed to file the Demurrer on behalf of Todd – a fact he did not
discover until after the entry of default. (Motion, Todd Decl., ¶ 18.) 
 
The Court finds Todd has satisfied
her burden to demonstrate inadvertence or neglect by her Counsel, and Mohebbi presents
no reason for the Court to find otherwise.  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds the entry of default
was caused by Counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. And,
having considered the moving papers and evidence, the Court finds this Motion
to set aside default was timely, and the requisite responsive pleading (Answer)
was filed. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  
 
Thus, Todd’s Motion is GRANTED.
 
            Fees
and Costs 
 
“The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory
legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).)
 
“Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default
judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the
court may do any of the following:
 
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant
other relief as is appropriate.”
 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (c).) 
 
Mohebbi’s Opposition seeks an award of attorney’s fees in
the amount of $4,899.00, reflecting six hours billed at $525.00 per hour for
work on the Opposition, review of the Reply, and travel to and attendance at
the instant hearing. (Sandarian Decl., ¶ 13.) Mohebbi’s Opposition further
requests $24.75 for service fees to file the Opposition, as well as $1,575.00 for
time investigating and locating Todd out of state and corresponding with
multiple process servers to effect personal service of Todd. (Sandarian Decl., ¶
13.) Finally, Mohebbi’s Opposition seeks $150.00 in an otherwise unnecessary
service of process server fee. (Sandarian Decl., ¶ 13, Exh. 1-7.)
 
Mohebbi is awarded the reasonable
amount of $1,500 in attorney’s fees and $24.75 in costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
            Given the
circumstances of the instant default and Motion, the Court declines to impose
an additional monetary penalty pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (c).
 
V.               
Conclusion
& Order
 
Cross-Defendant Diane Todd’s Motion to
Vacate Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED. The default entered on June 17,
2024 is hereby VACATED.
 
Cross-Defendant Diane Todd’s answer - ONLY
- to Nowzar Mohebbi’s Cross-Complaint to be filed within the next 10 days of
this Court’s ruling.
 
NOTE:  The Court
notes that the proposed amended answer to the Cross-Complaint (attached as
Exhibit E to the Declaration of Matthew Todd in Support of Motion to Vacate
Default of Diane Todd, filed 11/20/2024) is not appropriate, because Gregory
Todd has already filed an answer (as of 10/01/2024).  Since this would be the first responsive pleading
of Diane Todd an answer (NOT AMENDED) needs to be filed.
 
Cross-Defendant’s counsel is to pay
attorney’s fees and costs of $1,524.75 to Mohebbi’s counsel within 20 days of
this Court’s order. Cross-Defendant is to file an Answer within 10 days of this
order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 