 Case Number:  23STCV09441    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



TEA HERMANKOVA,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
RUNWAY SUB REIT, LLC,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV09441




Hearing Date:


June 14, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
BOZZUTO
  MANAGEMENT COMPANY’S DEMURRER TO TO [sic] FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANT BOZZUTO MANAGEMENT COMPANY TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT



            
Background
Plaintiffs Tea
Hermankova (“Hermankova”) and Tomas Hermanek, a Minor, by and through
his Guardian Ad Litem, Tea
Hermankova (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on April 27, 2023 against
Defendants Runway Sub Reit, LLC (“Runway”) and Bozzuto Management Company
(“Bozzuto”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleged causes of action for
(1) breach of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability, (3)
trespass, (4) negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6)
maintenance of nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, 
(8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (9) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Runway demurred to the
Complaint and moved to strike portions of the Complaint. On December 13,
2023, the Court issued a minute order in this action providing, inter alia,
that “Runway’s demurrer to the first, sixth, and eighth causes of action is
sustained, with leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
is sustained, without leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the second, third,
fifth, and seventh causes of action is overruled.” The December 13, 2023 minute
order further provides that “Runway’s motion to strike is granted in part and
denied in part, as set forth above. Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve an
amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this order. If no
amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders Runway to file and
serve its answer to the Complaint within 30 days of the date of this order.” 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach of lease, (2) breach of implied covenant of habitability,
(3) trespass, (4) negligence, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6)
maintenance of nuisance, (7) constructive eviction, and (8) intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
Bozzuto now demurs to the first, second, fifth, seventh, and eighth
causes of action of the FAC. Bozzuto also moves to strike portions of the FAC.
Plaintiffs oppose both. 
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the FAC  
In the FAC, Plaintiffs
allege that since on or about May 16, 2022, Hermankova leased premises
from Defendants, located at 12760 W. Millennium Dr., Unit A408, Playa Vista,
California (the “Premises” and/or “Unit A408”). (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[d]ue to the unlawful and outrageous conduct as hereinafter set forth in
detail, Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas Hermansek,
could not reside at the Premises, and instead moved into 12760 W. Millennium
Dr., Unit A424, Playa Vista, California, (‘Unit A424’), pursuant to an
agreement entered into with the lessee of Unit A424, whereby Plaintiff
Hermankova paid monthly rent to the lessee of Unit A424.” (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[f]rom the very beginning of Plaintiffs’
occupancy of Unit A408, pursuant to the Rental Agreement, Plaintiffs
experienced intolerable noise at night emanating from nine old and unmaintained
air conditioning units located directly above Plaintiffs’ unit on the roof, as
well as the refrigerator in Plaintiffs’ unit.” (FAC, ¶ 14.) Hermankova made
several complaints to Runway management regarding these conditions. (FAC, ¶
14.) Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n or about August 3, 2022, Hermankova was
confronted by Runway’s head manager of maintenance, ‘Dan,’…on the roof over
Hermankova’s unit, who physically pushed her and according to Runway’s own
written admission, Hermankova ‘almost fell over one of the pipes on the roof.’”
(FAC, ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[i]mmediately thereafter, instead of
rectifying the situation, Runway served Hermankova with a Three-Day Notice,”
and that “[t]he August 5, 2022 Three-Day Notice was not properly served and was
never followed up upon.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[a]fter
Plaintiffs’ complaints continued to remain unaddressed, and even hostilely
rebuffed, Hermankova entered into an arrangement with the lessee of Unit A424,
Ivan Philip, to pay him rent to stay in his unit while he was away in Europe,
so that Hermankova could recuperate in peace after her major cervical spine and
neck surgery scheduled for January 17, 2023. Pursuant to her agreement with
Ivan Philip, Hermankova and her minor 14-year-old son, Tomas, began occupying
Unit A424 on or about December 14, 2022.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n January 28, 2023, Runway and Bozzuto, by
and through their General Manager, Damanpak called the police, and informed the
police that Runway intended to change the door lock of Unit A424. After meeting
with the police at Unit A424, and Plaintiff Hermankova providing appropriate
paperwork concerning her arrangement with Mr. Philip and their payment of rent
to Mr. Philip, the police advised Runway that changing the locks would be
illegal and that the police did not recommend doing so. The police then left.”
(FAC, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “on February 2, 2023, Runway, at Damanpak’s
direction, conducted an illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor
son, Plaintiff Tomas from Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her minor son,
were in possession. Runway employees changed the lock on the door of Unit A424
while Hermankova was at a medical facility receiving post-operative tests and
treatment, and Tomas, her then 14-year-old son, was walking their dog.
Hermankova’s minor son returned to the unit with his dog and discovered that
Plaintiffs had been locked out of Unit A424.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) “After waiting
outside Unit A424 for over an hour, three male Runway employees approached
Tomas, one armed with a handgun. Two of the individuals entered the unit, and
told the armed individual not to let Hermankova’s son in. They left the unit
with unknown possessions in their hands. Tomas then called the Los Angeles
Police Department.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) “Police officers of the LAPD arrived at the
scene, and advised Runway management that their lockout was illegal and
directed them to return the keys for Unit A424 to Hermankova.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n two more occasions, February 6
and on February 7, 2023, Runway personnel unlocked the door to Unit A424 and
again attempted to illegally enter.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n addition
to the August 5, 2022 Three Day Notice, Runway served two subsequent Three Day
Notices, one on January 25, 2023 and another on January 31, 2023.” (FAC, ¶ 23.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Runway management, including Damanpak and Runway’s
Leasing Manager, Keri Moody…forbade Hermankova or her minor son from entering,
or even calling the leasing office. Moreover, Runway denied access by
Hermankova to her account through the Runway portal. In fact, Runway’s
management continued a pattern of terrorizing Hermankova, apparently with the
intent to attempt to oust Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor son from the
Premises by creating an environment so hostile that it amounted to a
constructive eviction.” (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
C.    First Cause of Action for Breach of Lease 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach
of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's
breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v.
Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1182, 1186.) 
Bozzuto asserts that
here, the first cause of action for breach of lease does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Bozzuto. The first cause of
action alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants breached the Rental
Agreement, as well as California law by, inter alia, failing to
remediate the untenantable conditions as herein described in detail, within a
reasonable time after notice was given by Plaintiff Hermankova and by failing
and refusing to make the necessary repairs to the air conditioning units on the
roof directly above Unit A408 or the refrigerator in Unit A408.” (FAC, ¶ 38.)
Bozzuto notes that
paragraph 13 of the FAC alleges that “[o]n
or about May 16, 2022, Hermankova entered into a residential lease for the
Premises (the ‘Rental Agreement’) with Defendants. A true and correct copy of
the written Rental Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘A’ and made a part
hereof.” (FAC, ¶ 13, Ex. A.) The
first paragraph of the “Lease Contract” attached as Exhibit “A” to the FAC
alleges, inter alia, that “[t]his Lease Contract…is between you, the
resident(s) (list all people signing the Lease Contract): Tea Hermankova
and us, the owner: Runway Sub REIT, LLC…” (FAC, ¶ 13, Ex. A, emphasis omitted.)
Bozzuto asserts that accordingly, “[a]s Bozzuto is not a party to the Lease,
the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Bozzuto.” (Demurrer at p.
8:7-8.)
In the opposition, Plaintiffs acknowledge that “[w]ith respect to the
First Cause of Action for Breach of Lease, it appears that Bozzuto (the
Property Manager for and parent company of Runway) did not itself sign the
Lease.” (Opp’n at pp. 11:27-12:1.) However, Plaintiffs assert that Bozzuto
“nevertheless has contractual obligations to Plaintiffs.” (Opp’n at p.
11:25-26.) In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiffs are informed and
believe and thereon allege that Bozzuto is the parent company of Runway.” (FAC,
¶ 4.) Plaintiffs assert that “[a]s parent company and management company,
Bozzuto may be found liable, independently as well as under agency theories,
not only for Runway’s breaches, but also for its own.” (Opp’n at p. 12:4-6.) Plaintiffs
cite to Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program,
LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 862, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n a parent-subsidiary relationship, the agency doctrine
may bind a parent to the contracts of its subsidiary where, in addition to
owning the subsidiary, the parent company exercises sufficient control over the
[subsidiary’s] activities such that the subsidiary becomes a mere agen[t] or
instrumentality of the parent…The nature of the control exercised by the parent
over the subsidiary … must be over and above that to be expected as an incident
of the parent’s ownership of the subsidiary and must reflect the parent’s
purposeful disregard of the subsidiary’s independent corporate existence.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) 
Plaintiffs assert that here, they have
alleged agency. Plaintiffs point to, inter alia, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the FAC, which allege that “Plaintiffs are
informed and believes, and based thereon allege, that except as otherwise
alleged, each Defendant referred to herein as Does 1 through 10 inclusive are,
and at all times material herein have been the lessors, agents, brokers,
employees, partners, joint venturers, subsidiaries or affiliates of each of the
other Defendants and/or are persons or entities claiming any legal or equitable
right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the Premises described herein… Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and on that basis allege that, in engaging in the acts
hereinafter alleged, each of the Defendants was the agent, servant and employee
of each of the other Defendants, and performed each of the acts hereinafter
alleged within the course and scope of such agency and employment and with the
knowledge, consent, approval, authorization, and ratification of each other
Defendant.” (FAC, ¶¶ 6-7.)
In the reply, Bozzuto emphasizes that the FAC alleges that “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and thereon allege that Bozzuto is the parent
company of Runway….” (FAC, ¶ 4, emphasis added.) Bozzuto cites to Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
1149, 1158-1159, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] [p]laintiff may allege on information and belief any
matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations
are true, and thus a pleading made on information and belief is
insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging
such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations
are true…” (Internal quotations, citation, and emphasis omitted, underline
added.) 
Here, the FAC alleges that “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe and thereon allege that Defendant BOZZUTO MANAGEMENT
COMPANY (‘Bozzuto’) is a Limited Liability Company, organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Maryland, and is authorized to, and is doing
business in the County of Los Angeles, California. Plaintiffs are informed and
believe and thereon allege that Bozzuto is the parent company of Runway…” (FAC,
¶ 4.) However, Plaintiffs do not appear to allege the “information
that lead[s] [Plaintiffs] to believe that [such] allegations are true…” (Gomes v. Countrywide
Home Loans, Inc., supra,
192 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1158-1159.) 
In light of
the foregoing, the Court sustains Bozzuto’s demurrer to the first
cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
D.    Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Habitability 
            In
the demurrer, Bozzuto asserts that “Plaintiff’s cause for breach of the
implied warranty of habitability in the Rental Agreement cannot be asserted
against Bozzuto as it is not a party to the Rental Agreement.” (Demurrer at p.
8:21-22, emphasis omitted.) 
Bozzuto cites to Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 928-929, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]he demurrers of the agent defendants were granted
on the ground that no cause of action could be stated against them on the basis
of the implied warranty of habitability because they did not have the status of
landlords. As to the remaining tort causes of action, the trial court reasoned
that a tenant’s remedies were limited to a suit for breach of the implied
warranty. We conclude that although the agent defendants may not be held liable
under the implied warranty theory, causes of action may be stated against them
in tort. Since the suit for breach of
the implied warranty is essentially a contractual one, the trial court
correctly ruled the agents could not be held liable on the breach of warranty
because an agent is ordinarily not liable on the contract when he acts on
behalf of a disclosed principal.” In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not appear to address
this holding in Stoiber. As discussed, Plaintiffs allege
that “Bozzuto is the parent company of Runway.” (FAC, ¶ 4.) The
FAC does not appear to allege that Bozzuto has the status of a landlord. 
In light of
the foregoing, the Court sustains Bozzuto’s demurrer to the second
cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
E.    Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
In the demurrer, Bozzuto asserts that “[a]s conceded by Plaintiff,
Bozzuto is not a party to the Lease…Further, the lease makes clear that Runway,
not Bozzuto, is the landlord. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not and cannot state a
cause of action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Use and Enjoyment…”
(Demurrer at p. 9:7-9.) Bozzuto cites to Guntert v. City of Stockton (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d
131, 138, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n every lease
the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession of the premises.” (Emphasis added.) Plaintiffs
do not appear to address this authority in the opposition.
Rather, Plaintiffs assert that “California case law has recognized a
tort cause of action for wrongful eviction, including breaches of the covenant
of quiet enjoyment that compel a tenant to vacate.” (Opp’n at p. 14:3-5.) Plaintiffs
cite to Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
230, 250, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 873 [141 Cal. Rptr. 3d 62]…the appellate court observed
that courts have allowed tort damages
for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment only where there has been a wrongful
eviction—i.e., where the landlord’s acts or omissions affected the tenant’s use
of the property and compelled the tenant to vacate the property.” (Emphasis
in original.) But as discussed, Plaintiffs do not appear to allege that Bozzuto
is Plaintiffs’ “landlord.” As discussed, Plaintiffs acknowledge that Bozzuto
“did not itself sign the Lease.” (Opp’n at pp. 11:28-12:1.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Bozzuto’s demurrer to the
fifth cause of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. 
 
F.     Seventh Cause of
Action for Constructive Eviction 
Bozzuto also asserts that Plaintiffs’ constructive eviction cause of
action fails. Bozzuto cites to Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101
Cal.App.3d at pages 925-926, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions…of
a landlord, or any disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession by
the landlord, renders the premises, or a substantial portion thereof, unfit for
the purposes for which they were leased, or has the effect of depriving the
tenant for a substantial period of time of the beneficial enjoyment or use of
the premises. Abandonment of premises by the tenant within a reasonable time
after the wrongful act of the landlord is essential to enable the tenant to
claim a constructive eviction.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) Bozzuto
asserts that “[a]s the Lease makes clear, Runway, not Bozzuto, was the
landlord. Therefore, Plaintiff cannot and has not stated a cause of action for
constructive eviction against Bozzuto…” (Demurrer at p. 9:19-20, emphasis
omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “[i]t is clear that a tenant
may sue a former landlord and rental agents in tort for damages allegedly
resulting from the dilapidated and unsafe condition of the rented premises.”
(Opp’n at pp. 14:27-15:2.) But Plaintiffs do not appear to address the
above-referenced holding in Stoiber that “[a] constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions
. . . of a landlord, or any disturbance or interference with the
tenant’s possession by the landlord, renders the premises, or a
substantial portion thereof, unfit for the purposes for which they were leased,
or has the effect of depriving the tenant for a substantial period of time of
the beneficial enjoyment or use of the premises.” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at pp.
925-926 [emphasis added].) As discussed, Plaintiffs
do not appear to allege that Bozzuto is Plaintiffs’ “landlord.”
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Bozzuto’s demurrer to the seventh cause of
action, with leave to amend. 
G.    Eighth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant’s conduct
must be intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that
injury will result.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
Bozzuto
asserts that here, “there are no facts pled which show that Bozzuto engaged in
‘extreme’ conduct ‘which exceeds all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized society.’” (Demurrer at p. 10:13-15.) 
But as noted by Plaintiffs, the FAC alleges that “[o]n January 28,
2023, Runway and Bozzuto, by and through their General Manager, Damanpak called
the police, and informed the police that Runway intended to change the door
lock of Unit A424. After meeting with the police at Unit A424, and Plaintiff
Hermankova providing appropriate paperwork concerning her arrangement with Mr.
Philip and their payment of rent to Mr. Philip, the police advised Runway that
changing the locks would be illegal and that the police did not recommend doing
so. The police then left…Nevertheless…despite the police officers’ admonition,
and in direct contravention of California law, on February 2, 2023, Runway, at
Damanpak’s direction, conducted an illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and
her minor son, Plaintiff Tomas from Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her
minor son, were in possession…After waiting outside Unit A424 for over an hour,
three male Runway employees approached Tomas, one armed with a handgun. Two of
the individuals entered the unit, and told the armed individual not to let
Hermankova’s son in.” (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[o]n or
about August 3, 2022, Hermankova was confronted by Runway’s head manager of
maintenance, ‘Dan,’…on the roof over Hermankova’s unit, who physically pushed
her and according to Runway’s own written admission, Hermankova ‘almost fell
over one of the pipes on the roof.’” (FAC, ¶ 15.)
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged “extreme and outrageous conduct” for purpose of their cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Bozzuto also
asserts that “there are no facts alleged which show that Bozzuto
intended to inflict emotional distress on Plaintiffs.” (Demurrer at p.
11:22-23.) However, Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiffs hereby incorporate by
reference Paragraphs 14 through 24 of this First Amended Complaint. Defendants,
and their agents and employees and Does 1-10 committed the acts complained of
herein in a concerted and intentional effort to cause mental distress and with
the intent to inflict emotional distress upon Plaintiff Hermankova and her
minor son, Tomas.” (See Plaintiffs’ Notice of Errata filed January 3,
2024; FAC, ¶ 106.) Plaintiffs further allege that “Defendants deliberately and
intentionally violated Plaintiffs’ rights, by doing the things alleged in this
Complaint.” (FAC, ¶ 105.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court overrules Bozzuto’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
Motion to Strike 
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false, or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
 
B.    Alleged Allegations Pertaining to “Overruled Causes of
Action, Causes Not In Issue, and Introductory Allegations.” 
As set forth above, on December 13, 2023, the Court
issued a minute order pertaining to Runway’s demurrer to the Complaint and motion to strike portions of the Complaint. The
Court’s December 13, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that
“Runway’s demurrer to the first, sixth, and eighth causes of action is
sustained, with leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
is sustained, without leave to amend. Runway’s demurrer to the second, third,
fifth, and seventh causes of action is overruled. Runway’s motion to strike is
granted in part and denied in part, as set forth above.”  
Bozzuto asserts
that here, “without leave to amend, Plaintiff amended the Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, the Third Cause of
Action for Trespass, the Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Use and Enjoyment, and the Seventh Cause of Action for Constructive
Eviction. The new allegations are set forth in Paragraphs 58, 59, 67, 68, 82,
83, 99, 100, 101, 102, and 103 and should be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 12:20-24.) 
 Bozzuto also asserts that “without leave to
amend, new introductory allegations were added. Those new allegations appear in
Paragraphs 14, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30 of the FAC.”
(Mot. at p. 12:25-26.) In addition, Bozzuto asserts that “new allegations were
added in the Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence, which was not the subject
of the Demurrer. The new allegations appearing in the Fourth Cause of Action
are Paragraphs 70, 71, 73, and 75.” (Mot. at p. 13:1-3.) Bozzuto asserts that the foregoing
allegations should be stricken. 
Bozzuto cites
to Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th
1018, 1023, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[f]ollowing an order sustaining
a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the
plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s
order. The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of
action without having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of
action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Internal
citation omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs
assert that the “amendments were clearly within the scope of the
Court’s Order.” (Opp’n at p. 4:6-7.) As set forth above, the Court’s December
13, 2023 minute order in this matter provides, inter alia, that
“Runway’s motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part, as set forth
above.” (December 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 14.)
As noted in the December 13, 2023 minute order, Runway moved to strike
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages. The December 13, 2023 minute order provides,
inter alia, that “Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with
the second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability
(Compl., ¶ 51), the third cause of action for trespass (Compl., ¶ 58), the
fifth cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (Compl., ¶ 69),
the sixth cause of action for nuisance (Compl., ¶ 77), the seventh cause of
action for constructive eviction (Compl., ¶ 83), and the eighth cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress (Compl., ¶ 90).” (December 13,
2023 Minute Order at p. 13.) The minute order
further provides as follows:
 
“Runway asserts that here, ‘[a]t no point in the Complaint do
Plaintiffs allege how or when Runway’s unnamed managing agent came to know of
the alleged wrongdoings of which Plaintiffs complains.’ (Mot. at p. 24:23-24.)
Plaintiffs do not respond to this point or address Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (b) in their opposition. In addition, as
noted by Runway in the reply, Plaintiffs’ Complaint also does not identify any
officer or director of Runway ‘who engaged in the wrongful conduct or who had
‘advance knowledge’ and/or authorized or ratified the alleged wrongdoing.’
(Reply at p. 6:26-7:1.) Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Runway’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations (other than those
pertaining to the sixth and eighth causes of action), with leave to amend.”
(December 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 14, emphasis
added.)[1]
The Court finds that the allegations of
paragraphs 14, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 58, 59, 67, 68, 82, 83, 101, 102, and 103 of the FAC are within the scope of the Court’s
December 13, 2023 minute order granting Plaintiffs leave to amend their
punitive damages allegations. Thus, the Court denies Bozzuto’s motion to strike these
allegations.  
Paragraphs 99 and 100
of the FAC are contained in the seventh cause of action for constructive
eviction and allege, inter alia, that  “[a]s a further proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct and Plaintiffs’ mental anguish, pain and physical injury,
Plaintiffs were required to, and did, incur medical and related expenses, all
to their further damage, in the sum according to proof at trial…As a result of
these acts of Defendants, Plaintiffs were required to, and did, obtain
necessary medical care and attention and will continue to require these
services for an indefinite period…” (FAC, ¶¶ 99-100.) In addition, Paragraph 25 of the FAC was amended to add the sentence, “[b]y
reason of Defendants’ unlawful and wrongful eviction of Plaintiffs, and as a
proximate result of being ejected from the Premises in the manner herein
described, Plaintiffs suffered great mental distress and became nervous and
ill, all to their damage.” (FAC, ¶ 25.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that
“Plaintiffs’ addition of emotional distress damages allegations to their
existing causes of action (including negligence), i.e., additions to paragraphs
25, 75, 99 and 100, in response to the Court’s prior order sustaining
Defendants’ previous demurrer as to the cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, is entirely proper,” and that “Plaintiffs are
entitled to prove their damages for emotional distress resulting from
Defendants’ constructive eviction and negligent maintenance of premises.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:18-25.) But as Plaintiffs acknowledge, the Court sustained
Runway’s demurrer to original Complaint’s ninth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress, without leave to amend. (December 13, 2023 Minute Order at pp. 11, 14.) As discussed, “[f]ollowing an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for
judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or
her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.” (Harris v.
Wachovia Mortgage, FSB, supra,
185 Cal.App.4th at p. 1023.) Thus, the Court finds that it is
appropriate to strike paragraphs 99 and 100 of the FAC as well as the relevant portion of
paragraph 25 of the FAC. 
Lastly, paragraphs 70, 71, 73, and 75 of the FAC contain additional allegations. These
paragraphs are contained within the FAC’s fourth cause of action for negligence.
Runway did not demur to the cause of action for negligence in the original
Complaint, and the Court did not grant Plaintiffs leave to amend the negligence
cause of action. In the opposition, Plaintiffs do not appear to provide any argument
as to how the new allegations in the FAC’s negligence cause of action are
purportedly within the scope of the Court’s December 13, 2023 minute order
granting leave to amend.  
Bozzuto moves to strike the last sentence of
paragraph 25 of the FAC, and the first sentence of
paragraph 70 of the FAC. Bozzuto also moves to strike the
entirety of paragraphs 71, 73, 75, 99, and 100 of the
FAC. In light of the foregoing, the Court grants Bozzuto’s motion to strike these
allegations. 
C.   
Punitive Damages 
Runway also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ request for
punitive damages. Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with the
second cause of action for breach of implied covenant of habitability (FAC, ¶¶
57-58), the third cause of action for trespass (FAC, ¶¶ 66-67), the fifth cause
of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment (FAC, ¶¶ 81-82), the sixth
cause of action for nuisance (FAC, ¶¶ 91-92), the seventh cause of action for
constructive eviction (FAC, ¶¶ 101-102), and the eighth cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress (FAC, ¶ 111-112).  
In the motion, Bozzuto asserts
that “Plaintiffs have failed to plead facts that any ‘managing agent’ knew any
employee was unfit or authorized/ratified any act.” (Mot. at p. 19:1-3.)[2] However,
Plaintiffs now allege, inter alia, that “Damanpak is the General manager
of both Runway Bozzuto, and Moody is the Leasing Manager for Runway. In
addition to the acts and conduct set forth in paragraph hereinabove committed
by ‘Dan,’ the Head Manager of Maintenance for Defendants in assaulting
Plaintiff Hermankova, and the acts and conduct of Runway employees as set forth
in paragraphs and hereinabove in threatening to, and in fact, locking
Plaintiffs out and physically threatening minor Plaintiff Tomas, Plaintiffs are
informed and believe, and thereon allege that all conduct complained of was
authorized, ratified, directed, undertaken or carried out by Damanpak, Moody
and Dan, and/or Does 1-10, whose identities have not yet been ascertained, but when
they are through discovery, Plaintiffs will seek leave to amend accordingly.”
(FAC, ¶ 26.)  
Bozzuto cites to CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
1255, 1273, where the Court of Appeal found that “[a]s triable issues exist regarding Davis’s
preaccident knowledge of Contreras’s driving, we examine whether she was a
managing agent. Generally, principal liability for punitive damages [does]
not depend on employees’ managerial level, but on the extent to which they
exercise substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately
determine corporate policy. Thus, to establish that an individual is a managing
agent, a plaintiff seeking punitive damages must show that the employee
exercised substantial discretionary authority over significant aspects of a
corporation’s business. In this context, corporate policy refers to formal policies that
affect a substantial portion of the company and that are the type likely to
come to the attention of corporate leadership…The key inquiry thus
concerns the employee’s authority to change or establish corporate policy.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Bozzuto asserts that here, “the FAC is void of any facts
that an alleged leasing agent, general manager, or manager of maintenance at
the apartment complex, had ‘the authority to change or establish corporate
policy’ for Bozzuto.”
(Mot. at p. 20:1-3.) In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that this argument is
factual. Indeed, CRST, relied upon by Bozzuto, concerned the
trial court’s denial of
summary adjudication as to a request for punitive damages. (CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 1258.) The Court of Appeal in CRST noted that “[b]ecause
there is no dispute that CRST is a
‘corporate employer,’ the remaining issue is whether ‘the advance knowledge’
and ‘conscious disregard’ was by a ‘managing agent of the corporation.’ (§ 3294, subd. (b).) Our focus is on Davis and Stanek,
the two employees identified as potential ‘managing agents’ in the TAC.” (Id. at p. 1272.) The Court of Appeal found that “[n]othing
before us suggests that Stanek had the requisite ‘advance knowledge’ regarding
Contreras’s lack of fitness,” and that “[t]he record discloses no evidence that
Davis had the requisite authority.” (Id. at pp. 1273-1274.) With respect to Runway’s motion to strike here,
the Court is not determining whether there is evidence demonstrating that “Damanpak”
or “Moody,” are the “Managing Agents of Defendants Runway and Bozzuto.” (See
FAC, ¶ 29.) 
Bozzuto also argues that “Plaintiffs have failed to allege
specific facts which satisfy the heightened pleading burden in connection with
a request for punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 13:7-9.) Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a), “[i]n an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
As
used in Civil Code section 3294, “‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)   “‘Fraud’
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)   
            Bozzuto argues that “[t]he
FAC, on its face, establishes the action is grounded upon Defendant’s
alleged failure to repair a noisy refrigerator in Unit A408 and refrigerator
condensors units on the roof. Further, Plaintiffs complain that after they
vacated Unit A408 and entered into an ‘arrangement’ with the tenant of Unit
A424 to sublet his Unit, notwithstanding the fact subleasing is prohibited in
the apartment building, Defendant attempted to evict them from Unit A424…These
facts do not show malice nor do they meet the heightened burden, set forth
above, for an award of punitive damages.” (Mot. at pp. 17:22-18:2, emphasis
omitted.) 
            But as noted by Plaintiffs, the
FAC alleges that “[o]n January 28, 2023, Runway and Bozzuto, by and through
their General Manager, Damanpak called the police, and informed the police that
Runway intended to change the door lock of Unit A424. After meeting with the
police at Unit A424, and Plaintiff Hermankova providing appropriate paperwork
concerning her arrangement with Mr. Philip and their payment of rent to Mr.
Philip, the police advised Runway that changing the locks would be illegal and
that the police did not recommend doing so. The police then
left…Nevertheless…despite the police officers’ admonition, and in direct
contravention of California law, on February 2, 2023, Runway, at Damanpak’s
direction, conducted an illegal lockout of Plaintiff Hermankova and her minor
son, Plaintiff Tomas from Unit A424, of which Hermankova and her minor son,
were in possession…After waiting outside Unit A424 for over an hour, three male
Runway employees approached Tomas, one armed with a handgun. Two of the individuals
entered the unit, and told the armed individual not to let Hermankova’s son
in.” (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) The Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
“malice” for purposes of Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
denies Bozzuto’s motion
to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Bozzuto’s demurrer to the
first, second, fifth, and seventh causes of action of the FAC is sustained,
with leave to amend. Bozzuto’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action of the
FAC is overruled. 
The Court grants Bozzuto’s motion to strike as to paragraphs 71, 73, 75, 99,
and 100 of the FAC, the first sentence of paragraph
70 of the FAC, and the last sentence of paragraph 25 of the FAC, without leave to amend. 
Bozzuto is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  June 14, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


