 Case Number:  24STCV00294    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2024    Dept:  14 #5Case Background
This is an action for breach of implied warranty of
habitability, negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, private
nuisance, violation of Civil Code, section 1942.4, and violation of Business
and Professions Code, section 17200. Plaintiffs are a group of families who
resided in the same apartment building in Los Angeles, California. Plaintiffs
allege that the building suffered from serious defects which made the building
uninhabitable.
On January 4, 2024, a large group of Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint against Defendants Melannie L. Munoz, 5914 Hoover St., LLC, and
PI Properties No. 86, LLC.
On August 19, 2024, Gustavo Silvestre Boldrini filed
these motions to be relieved as counsel for Abraham Isaias Montes Noriega, Bella
Lizeth Montes, Cintia Dayan Noriega Chavez, Edgar Ivan Montes Hernandez, and Edgar
Ivan Montes (Affected Plaintiffs).
Instant Pleading
Gustavo Silvestre Boldrini moves to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiffs Abraham Isaias Montes Noriega, Bella Lizeth Montes,
Cintia Dayan Noriega Chavez, Edgar Ivan Montes Hernandez, and Edgar Ivan
Montes.
Decision
Gustavo Silvestre Boldrini’s motions to be relieved as
counsel will be granted once Counsel submits updated forms MC-053. The orders
granting the motions will be effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed orders upon the
clients.
Legal Standard
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1362 requires that counsel fill out forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. These
forms serve two basic functions: (1) ensuring that notice is given to the
client and (2) providing the court with an adequate explanation of why the
matter is being handled via motion rather than mutual consent. See Code of
Civil Procedure § 284; California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362.
Discussion
Counsel filed the required forms. Those forms indicate
that Counsel served the affected Plaintiffs at their last known addresses which
he confirmed were current via conversation, at least 30 days before the hearing
on this matter. The Court notes that Counsel failed to include the Affected
Plaintiffs’ phone numbers on form MC-053, Item number 6. Counsel must also
check box 5a on form MC-053. Counsel must file amended forms MC-053 before this
motion may be granted.
Counsel represents there has been an irreparable
breakdown in attorney-client communication and in the attorney-client
relationship. 
Counsel complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1362,
and relief is appropriate under the circumstances of this case. The motions will
be granted once Counsel submits updated forms MC-053. The order granting the
motions will be effective upon the
filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 
Conclusion
Gustavo Silvestre Boldrini’s motions to be relieved as
counsel will be granted once Counsel submits updated forms MC-053. The orders
granting the motions will be effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed orders upon the
clients.
 