 Case Number:  23STCO04543    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
  
Date:               10/10/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Community
Coalition et al. v. City of Los Angeles et al. (23STCP04543)
  
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Respondents City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Police
Department and Dominic Choi move for judgment on the pleadings as to all three
causes of action in Verified First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate on the
ground that the Ninth Circuit’s recent decision in Chinaryan v. City of Los
Angeles (9th Cir. 2024) 113 F.4th 888 requires judgment to be entered in
respondents’ favor.
 
In Opposition, petitioners Community Coalition, Black Lives
Matter-Los Angeles, and Sheilanee Sen refer to a memorandum dated August 16,
2024 issued by the Office of the Chief of Police (“OCOP Notice”). (RJN Ex. A.) Pursuant
to petitioners’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of the OCOP Notice.
(Evid. Code § 452(c), (h).) 
 
The OCOP Notice states that Chinaryan “eliminates an
officer’s qualified immunity when stopping a vehicle using high-risk tactics
based on nothing more than a reasonable suspicion that the vehicle is stolen.”
(RJN Ex. A at 1.) Notably, the OCOP Notice goes on to say:
 
“As a reminder, officers shall not
conduct high risk vehicle stops based solely on a suspicion that
a vehicle is stolen or cold-plated. High risk stops shall not routinely be used
for every stop of a suspected stolen or cold-plated vehicle. Instead, officers
need specific articulation of the occupants posing an immediate threat or risk
to officer safety to justify the need for high-risk tactics (e.g., yelling threats
of violence, stop conducted after a vehicle pursuit, visible weapons, refusing
to follow commands, etc.). The generic dangers posed by stopping a suspected
stolen or cold-plated vehicle are insufficient to justify the use of high-risk
tactics.” 
 
(RJN Ex. A at 1, emphasis in original.)
 
With respect to the
first two causes of action in the operative First Amended Petition, petitioners
seek a peremptory writ of mandate pursuant to CCP § 1085 directing respondent
to “cease to enforce the policy, practice, custom, and/or training of
conducting high-risk traffic stops without probable cause and where the only
basis of reasonable suspicion is that the vehicle may be stolen [ ], and
without any of the special circumstances required by the Ninth Circuit in [Green
v. City and County of San Francisco (9th Cir. 2014) 751 F.3d 1039, 1047],
such as: 1) the suspect is uncooperative or takes action at the scene that
raises a reasonable possibility of danger or flight; 2) the police have
information that the suspect is
currently armed; 3) the stop closely follows a violent crime; or 4) the police
have information that a crime that may involve violence is about to occur.”
(FAP ¶ 55.) With respect to the third cause of action, petitioners Community
Coalition and Sen seek to enjoin the enforcement of the subject policy as an
illegal expenditure of public funds. (FAP ¶¶ 7, 9, 50, 53.)
 
It appears that the judicially noticed OCOP Notice
constitutes the very same relief petitioners seek in their three causes of
action. The Chief of Police has explicitly and in no uncertain terms declared
the department’s policy that police officers may not conduct high risk traffic
stops based only on a suspicion that a vehicle is stolen and where the
occupants do not pose an immediate threat or risk to officer safety. Indeed, in
the opposition, petitioners state: “These instructions to LAPD officers [set
forth in the OPOC Notice] essentially acknowledge that the policy alleged in
the FAP is unconstitutional and provide the exact type of prospective
relief Petitioners are seeking in this lawsuit.” (Opp. at 2:13-20,
emphasis added.) Petitioners state that the OCOP Notice constitutes LAPD’s
“abandonment of its policy” and a “recent change in its policy.” (Opp. at 2:20-22.)
 
 
Thus, as suggested by respondents in Reply, it appears that
this case may be moot and should be dismissed. (Reply at 8, fn. 2.) Notwithstanding
petitioners’ contention that a “question remains whether Respondents will
commit to stand by this recent change in its policy on high-risk traffic stops
for the foreseeable future” (Opp. at 2:20-22), petitioners would have the Court
render an advisory opinion on whether LAPD may subsequently institute some
policy other than the OCOP Notice that is in effect. “The ripeness requirement,
a branch of the doctrine of justiciability, prevents courts from issuing purely
advisory opinions.” (Pacific Legal Foundation v. California Coastal Com.
(1982) 33 Cal.3d 158, 170.) Generally, in writ proceedings, the Court applies
the law currently in effect. (See Flores v. Dept. of Transportation
(2023) 76 Cal.App.5th 678, 682; Estes v. City of Grover City (1978) 82
Cal.App.3d 509, 516 [“A statutory change occurring during the course of
judicial review of an administrative adjudicatory determination which removes
the substantive basis for discipline imposed by the administrative agency
precludes affirmance of the agency’s action unless the statute contains a
savings clause”].) 
 
Accordingly, the Court issues an Order to Show Cause regarding
why the instant case should not be dismissed. Order to Show Cause is scheduled
for ___________ at 1:30 PM in Department 86 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
 
Petitioners may submit a filing, no more than 5 pages long,
setting forth why the case should not be dismissed by no later than
___________. Respondents may file a response, limited to five pages, by no
later than ___________. Petitioners may file a reply to respondents’ filing, limited
to 3 pages, by no later than ___________. 
 
In the interim, the instant Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is taken OFF CALENDAR.
 
 