  Case Number:  20STCV40375    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA MIRANDA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 20STCV40375
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
June 28, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
October 21, 2020, Plaintiff Maria Miranda (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”); County of Los Angeles
(“County”); Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“LADWP”); and DOES 1 to
50 (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging a sole cause of action for Premises
Liability – Dangerous Condition of Public Property. 
            On
January 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as to Defendant
County. Dismissal was entered as requested on February 25, 2021. 
The City and the
City, acting by and through the LADWP, at this time, moves for summary judgment
on the grounds that there is no triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff has
not opposed the instant motion. 
 
2. Request for Judicial
Notice
            The
City requests judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s Complaint for Damages filed on
October 21, 2020 – Exhibit 1 and (2) the fact that the City  and LADWP are public entities.
            The
request is granted in part. The court takes judicial notice of the fact that
the City and LADWP are public entities pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(g). There is no need to judicially notice the Complaint in this case, the
court can always review the court’s record.
3. Motion for Summary
Judgment 
a. Legal
Standard
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim
and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil
Procedure § 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
“The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.) As to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the
cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  However,
“responsive evidence that gives rise to no more than mere speculation cannot be
regarded as substantial and is insufficient to establish a triable issue of
material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at
163.) 
b. Discussion
             The City and LADWP argue Plaintiff fails to
set forth facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against them because
they are public entities immune from liability for injuries caused by alleged
dangerous condition of public property per Government Code section 830.6. (UMF
8-9.) Specifically, the City and LADWP assert there no triable issue of
material fact that the ramp at issue in this case was built to comply with the
ADA. (UMF 11-12, 14.)
            Government
Code section 835 states the following:
“Except as
provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either:
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (Gov. Code, § 835.)
            Government
Code section 830.6 provides in pertinent part, “[n]either a public entity
nor a public employee is liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the
plan or design of a construction of, or an improvement to, public property
where such plan or design has been approved in advance of the construction or
improvement by the legislative body of the public entity or by some other body
or employee exercising discretionary authority to give such approval or where
such plan or design is prepared in conformity with standards previously so
approved, if the trial or appellate court determines that there is any
substantial evidence upon the basis of which (a) a reasonable public employee
could have adopted the plan or design or the standards therefor or (b) a
reasonable legislative body or other body or employee could have approved the
plan or design or the standards therefor.” (Gov. Code, § 830.6.)
The City and LADWP
have met their initial burden showing that no triable issue of material fact
that as public entities they are immune from liability under Government Code
section 830.6. Here, the City and LADWP proffered the Complaint, photographs of
the alleged dangerous condition, Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, city permits
for construction of the alleged dangerous condition, distributing station
diagram for the alleged dangerous condition, inspection records for the alleged
dangerous condition, and certificate of compliance. The proffered evidence
indicates that Plaintiff was walking her dog and going across Monte Vista
Street heading towards a sidewalk on Mount Angelus Drive. (UMF 3-4.) The
proffered evidence suggests that Plaintiff landed in the walkway of the ramp at
issue and fell. (UMF 5-6.) The evidence proffered further indicates that the
original design of construction for the ramp at issue was approved by the City
in 2015. (UMF 7, 10.) The evidence further shows that the City and LADWP are
public entities. (UMF 8-9.) Moreover, the evidence demonstrates reconstruction
of the ramp at issue as an ADA ramp was approved by the City in 2018. (UMF
11-12.) The evidence also demonstrates that in 2019 the ramp at issue passed
inspection and was issued a Certificate of Compliance as an ADA ramp. (UMF
13-14.)
The burden shifts
to Plaintiff to present substantive responsive evidence demonstrating that a
triable issue of material fact does exist that as public entities the City and
LADWP are not immune from liability. Here, Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition, thus has not presented any evidence rebutting the City and LADWP’s
affirmative showing of entitlement to judgment as matter of law. 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Department of Water
and Power’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Defendants are
ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated this 28th day of June,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 