 Case Number:  23BBCV02845    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 26, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02845

 



MP:  


Hami
  Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC (Defendants)  




RP:  


Brandon Brooks (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Brandon Brooks (Plaintiff) brings this action against Hami
Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC (collectively Defendants) associated with an apartment Plaintiff rented from
Defendants (the Subject Property). Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to remedy
a number of deficient conditions at the Subject Property. 
 
The Court previously sustained Defendants’ demurrer to
various causes of action and Plaintiff has subsequently filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC). 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC contains 12 causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Statutory Breach of the Warranty of
Habitability (Civil Code §§1941, 1941.1, And 1942.4), (3) Violation of Civil
Code §1942.4, (4) Violation of Civil Code §1942.5, (5) Tortious Breach of the
Warranty of Habitability, (6) Violation of Business & Professions Code
§17200, et seq., (7) Private Nuisance, (8) Negligence, (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED), (10) Breach of the Covenant of Good
Faith & Fair Dealing, (11) Violation of LAMC 45.33, and (12) Violation of
Civil Code § 789.3(a)
 
As before, Defendants now generally demur to the causes
of action for Private Nuisance and IIED on grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege
sufficient facts. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are
used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading
is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made
under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436
(b).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike.
Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Mantovani
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC
contains an overarching facts section, which is incorporated by reference into
each of his 12 causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff alleges
that shortly after commencing tenancy, someone stole his parking spot (FAC. ¶ 30.)
Plaintiff also alleges that his vehicle was vandalized after his parking spot
was reassigned. (FAC ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges that the Subject Property had its
gas service interrupted for a prolonged period of time for repairs. (FAC
¶ 34.) Plaintiff states that this interruption caused him to experience
severe health symptoms because he could not use his fireplace and other gas
appliances. (FAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff alleges that the gas remains turned off
for the building. (FAC ¶ 37.) 
 
Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendants did not provide the necessary accommodations after he
was furloughed during the Covid-19 pandemic. (FAC ¶ 40.) Instead,
Plaintiff alleges he was served with a 3-day notice to quit which was followed
by two unlawful detainer suits. (FAC ¶ 39.) 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC also contains
a list of alleged defective conditions of the Subject Property which include
infestations, extensive water damage, and unsafe/unsanitary common areas. (FAC
¶ 28.) Plaintiff does not provide any further allegations as to the nature of
these defects or when they occurred. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that he has
contacted Defendants with respect to these defects several times, but the
problems persist. (FAC ¶ 43.) Plaintiff alleges he was forced to hire his
own pest and mold inspection companies. (FAC ¶ 52.) 
 
Seventh COA – Private
Nuisance – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, [citations,
italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted].)

 
The Court previously
sustained the demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend. The Court
relied on the reasoning in El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc.
which held “Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same
facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.” (El
Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337,
1349.) The Court also cited Melton v. Boustred, which found
that a demurrer is properly sustained where a nuisance claim is merely a clone
of the negligence claim. (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521,
542.) 
 
The Court found
Plaintiff’s arguments that his cause of action was not duplicative to be
unpersuasive. Plaintiff argued that his nuisance cause of action differed from
his negligence cause of action because it alleged both intentional and
negligent behavior of Defendants. This argument is virtually unchanged in
Plaintiff’s current opposition. Likewise, the Court remains unpersuaded. The
Court’s previous ruling made clear that Plaintiff must allege facts specific to
his nuisance claim if he wished it to survive demurrer. A review of the FAC
shows that no such allegations are present. 
 
Plaintiff has added
allegations that he had a possessory interest in the Subject Property. (FAC
¶ 125.) While this is an element of a private nuisance action, it does not
speak to any specific behavior of Defendants in creating a nuisance. 
 
Plaintiff also has
added a list of alleged actions by the Defendant to this cause of action. (FAC
¶ 128.) They are as follows: 
 
a.      
Failing to address
hazardous gas leaks and exposure risks; 
b.     
Allowing infestations
of vermin and pests to persist; 
c.      
Neglecting to remedy
mold, mildew, and extensive water damage; 
d.     
Failing to replace
essential safety features, such as the fireplace pilot exchanger; 
e.      
Providing inadequate
heating and improper ventilation; 
f.       
Ignoring ongoing
plumbing issues and unsafe or unsanitary common areas; 
g.     
Failing to maintain
the safety and security of the Plaintiff's designated parking space, resulting
in vandalism of Plaintiff's vehicle.
 
(FAC ¶ 128.) 
 
The Court does not
find these allegations are specific to Plaintiff’s nuisance claim, particularly
in light of the allegations in the cause of action for Negligence. In that
cause of action Plaintiff alleges the Defendant negligently allow the following
conditions: 
 
(1) mold and/or mildew; (2) water damage; (3) lack of
effective waterproofing and weather protection; (4) lack of or decrease in unit
services; (5) failure to timely replace the fireplace pilot exchanger; (6)
inadequate heating devices; (7) gas exposure; (8) improper ventilation; (9)
outgrown vegetation and unkept landscaping; and (10) inoperable central air
condition, rendering the Subject Property substandard and untenantable as
alleged herein.
 
(FAC ¶ 143.) 
 
The Court notes that
the vast majority of the conditions resulting from Defendants’ alleged
negligence overlap with those resulting from Defendants’ alleged intentional
behavior. All of the allegations in FAC paragraph 128 are attributable to
either intentional acts or negligence and none of the allegations are
accompanied by specific facts indicating intentional behavior. Further, to the
extent that Plaintiff’s negligence action does not explicitly mention the
parking situation, the Court notes the FAC contains no allegations that this
situation arose from Defendants’ intentional actions. Plaintiff merely alleges
that he complained of the parking situation and Defendants’ response was
“markedly deficient”. (FAC ¶ 31.)  
 
The Court finds the
additional allegations upon amendment are insufficient to set Plaintiff’s claim
of Private Nuisance apart from his claim of Negligence. As Plaintiff has had
previous opportunity to allege additional facts speaking specifically to
nuisance and has failed to do so, the Court finds it improbable that further
amendment would cure this deficiency. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the cause of action for Private Nuisance is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend. 
 
Ninth COA – IIED –
Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
“The elements of a
prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th
999, 1009, [citation and ellipses omitted].)
 
The Court previously
sustained the demurrer to this cause of action, finding Plaintiff had not
sufficiently pled intentional conduct. Specifically, the Court focused on the
Defendants’ alleged refusal to remediate, given that courts have preciously
found IIED claims proper in situations where a landlord has outright refused to
remediate habitability issues. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1057.) The Court found that the facts alleged in the Complaint did
not indicate a complete refusal to remediate. Plaintiff alleged he emailed
about various conditions on October 20, 2021, July 14, 2022, August 26, 2022,
April 12, 2023, and April 13, 2023. (Compl. ¶ 41.) At the same time, Plaintiff
alleged that “Defendants’ responses have been inconsistent and inadequate,
allowing the infestation and unsanitary conditions to persist.” (Compl. ¶ 52.) The
Court found this latter allegation indicated that some remediation had taken
place but that it was insufficient to remedy Plaintiff’s concerns. The Court
notes that such insufficient response was not akin to an intentional refusal to
remediate. 
 
Upon amendment
Plaintiff has removed the above referenced allegation that Defendants’ response
was “inconsistent and inadequate.” Instead, Plaintiff now pleads that, “…[d]espite Plaintiff’s continual appeals regarding the
aforementioned infestations and substandard conditions within the subject
property, Defendants have completely ignored each of these requests…” (FAC ¶ 54.) 
 
First the Court notes
that there are no specific allegations as to which requests have been responded
to and which have been ignored. From Plaintiff’s FAC it is clear that he has complained
on multiple occasions to Defendants about various conditions at the Subject Property.
(See FAC ¶ 24, 45, 188.) Regardless, Plaintiff only alleges that
Defendants were not responsive to an email in “early April” (FAC ¶ 45) and
an email on April 27, 2023 (FAC ¶ 47.) This leaves the prior year and half
of complaints, including emails specifically identified in paragraph 24,
unaccounted for. 
 
Further, there is a
complete lack of particularity in identifying the subject of these complaints.
It appears from Plaintiff’s FAC that his complaints regarding the parking
situation received some sort of response, as he alleges that Defendants’
response was markedly deficient. (FAC ¶ 29.) This indicates that Defendants
were responding at least in some capacity to some of Plaintiff’s complaints. Further,
Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants were unresponsive to the April emails
is equally indicative of negligence as it is intentional behavior. If Plaintiff
wishes to state a claim for IIED based on Defendants’ intentional refusal to remediate,
it is incumbent upon him to allege facts showing such refusal occurred.  
 
Lastly, Plaintiff’s
substituting of “inconsistent and inadequate” for the allegation that he was
completely ignored does little to assuage concerns regarding the sham pleading
doctrine. The sham pleading doctrine generally prohibits a plaintiff from
amending a complaint to omit harmful allegations from prior pleadings, without
explanation. (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)
Under the sham pleading doctrine, “[a] plaintiff may not avoid a demurrer by
pleading facts or positions in an amended complaint that contradict facts
pleaded in the original complaint, or by suppressing facts which prove the
pleaded facts false.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corporation (1992) 4
Cal.App.4th 857, 877-878.) Here, Plaintiff has added no allegations which
explain his previous contention that Defendants’ response was inadequate rather
than an outright refusal to remediate. Plaintiff’s amendment is not so much an
addition of facts as a substituting of language. 
 
Despite the above,
the Court finds the FAC contains sufficient information such that the Court
believes sufficient facts can be pled to support the claim if they exist.
Although Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently articulate these as of yet, it
remains possible he could do so. Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants seek to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and all references to
Defendants’ conduct as “malicious” “oppressive” “despicable” or “outrageous”.
(See FAC ¶¶ 93, 99, 100, 101, 115, 167, 1280 182.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims are, at least in part, derived from the
IIED cause of action. Given the Court has sustained the demurrer to that cause
of action with leave to amend, Defendants’ motion strike punitive damages is
MOOT. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hami Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
came on regularly for hearing on July 26, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR AUGUST 27,
2024 IS ADVANCED AND CONTINUED ON THE COURT’S MOTION TO NOVEMBER 12, 2024 AT
9:00 AM
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT GOL 5 TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
July 26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 