 Case Number:  23BBCV02171    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 26, 2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02171

 
MP:     The People of the State of California,
acting by and through the Department of      Transportation
(Defendant) 
RP:     Jennifer
Martinez (Plaintiff)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jennifer
Martinez, individually and as the Successor-in-Interest to the Estate of Miguel
Martinez, (Plaintiff) brings this action against the Estate of Richard James
Lopez and the People of the State of California, acting by and through the
Department of Transportation (Caltrans). Plaintiff alleges that on May 24,
2022, her husband Miguel Martinez (Decedent) was killed as the result of
traffic incident on the I-210 Freeway. Plaintiff specifically alleges that
Decedent was stopped on the side of the freeway when he was struck by a vehicle
operated by James Lopez. Plaintiff further alleges that the section of the
freeway had inadequate lighting. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint contains causes of action for (1)
General Negligence, (2) Survivor Action, and (3) Wrongful Death as stated
against all Defendants. 
 
Caltrans now demurs to each cause of action in the
Complaint, arguing that they contain insufficient facts to allege liability of
a public entity. Plaintiff opposes and Caltrans replies.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Sahakian Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
General Facts 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that, on May 24, 2022 at 11:47 p.m., Decedent was operating
a Freight Box Truck on the I-210 freeway. (Compl. ¶¶ 17, 20.) Plaintiff
alleges that Decedent stopped on the shoulder of the freeway and was standing
outside of his vehicle when a Black Honda Civic driven by James Lopez (Lopez)
approached. (Compl. ¶¶ 18, 20.) Plaintiff alleges that Lopez’s vehicle
collided with Decedent’s vehicle which then fatally struck Decedent. (Compl.
¶ 20.) 
 
The facts
alleged as to Caltrans liability are as follows: 
 
Defendant[’s]
failure to install lights on I-210 West near Lowell Avenue, a state highway in
the County of Los Angeles, State of California, creates dangerous conditions
that could not be reasonably apparent to motorists.
 
(Compl.
¶ 15.) 
 
1st
COA – Negligence – Sustained With Leave to Amend 
 
The Court agrees
with Caltrans that Plaintiff has insufficiently pled this cause of action. 
 
Government Code §
815 provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such
injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public
employee or any other person” except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code, §
815(a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of public entities must be based on a
specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating some
specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of Civil Code
section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities would
be largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) To
state a claim against a public entity, “every fact essential to the existence
of statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the
existence of a statutory duty.” (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986)
177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.)
 
The authority is
clear that a tort claim against a public entity in California must be based in
statute and cannot be grounded in common law negligence. Here, Plaintiff
alleges Caltrans’ liability based on Government Code §§ 815.2(a), 815.4,
820(a), 830.8, 835 and 840.2. (Compl. ¶ 10.) Despite this, Plaintiff’s
Complaint only contains factual allegations speaking to liability for Dangerous
Condition of Public Property pursuant to Government Code § 835. Factual
allegations as to the other code sections are entirely absent. 
 
Claims stemming
from a Dangerous Condition of Public Property are generally pled under a
separate causes of action from those based in common law negligence. Such
claims must specifically allege (1) a dangerous condition of public property,
(2) a foreseeable risk, arising from the dangerous condition, of the kind of
injury the plaintiff suffered, (3) actionable conduct in connection with the
condition, i.e., either negligence on the part of a public employee in
creating it, or failure by the entity to correct it after notice of its
existence and dangerousness, (4) a causal relationship between the dangerous
condition and the plaintiff’s injuries, and (5) compensable damage sustained by
the plaintiff. (Toeppev. City of San Diego (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 921,
925) A claim alleging a dangerous condition on public property must be
specifically pleaded and cannot be based on generalized allegations. (Brenner
v. City of El Cajon (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 434, 439.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
has not explicitly pled any statutory duty owed to her under Government Code §
835. While the Court can glean Plaintiff’s theory of liability by inference,
the fact remains that she makes no allegations of a duty owed. Nor has
Plaintiff set forth allegations speaking to the individual elements of a claim
for Dangerous Condition of Public Property. Plaintiff simply alleges that there
were no lights on this section of the freeway and that lights are necessary to
warn of dangerous conditions of the roads. (Compl. ¶ 15, 31.) There are no
factual allegations as to how this condition caused the underlying motor
vehicle collision, how Decedent’s injury was foreseeably created by this
condition, or any action of Caltrans which created this condition. Plaintiff’s
conclusory allegations that the lack of lights on this section of the freeway
constitutes a dangerous condition are insufficient. 
 
Plaintiff’s
arguments in opposition are unpersuasive. Plaintiff argues that dangerous condition
claims have been found proper when a third party is involved. These arguments
place the cart before the horse, as Plaintiff has yet to sufficiently allege
her claim for Dangerous Condition of Public Property. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. The Court clarifies that this leave to amend is granted in so far as
Plaintiff may specifically plead the elements of a Dangerous Condition of
Public Property under Government Code § 835 or other statutory basis already
pled in the complaint. Further attempts to allege liability of Caltrans under
common law negligence will not suffice. 
 
Second &
Third COA – Survivor Action & Wrongful Death – Sustained with Leave to
Amend
 
Caltrans demurs
to these causes of action on grounds that they are not based on statute. The
Court agrees that these causes of action plead no statutory liability.
Plaintiff argues that her causes of action for Survivor Action and Wrongful
Death are based in C.C.P. § 377.30 and C.C.P. § 377.60 respectively. This
argument overlooks the requirement that liability be based in statute. 
 
C.C.P. § 377.30
and C.C.P. § 377.60 are indeed statutes which outline claims for Survivor
Action and Wrongful Death, but they establish no right of action against public
entities. Government Code § 815 makes clear that public entities are immune
from tort liability except in instances where such liability is explicitly
created by statute. If Plaintiff could rely on statutes which enshrine general
common law tort concepts to circumvent this immunity, Government Code § 815
would be without purpose. To the extent that Plaintiff can maintain Survivor
Action of Wrongful Death claims, those claims appear to necessarily stem from a
dangerous condition as established in Government Code § 835. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. Leave to amend is granted in so far as Plaintiff can incorporate the
specific facts speaking to a Dangerous Condition of Public Property under
Government Code § 835.  
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
The California Department of Transportation’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on July 26,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CALTRANS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  July
26, 2024                                     _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 