 Case Number:  23BBCV00532    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JULY 26, 2024

MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00532

 



MP:  


Arsen Hovanesyan M.D.
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Natalie Gold, Inc. dba
  Burbank Tower Pharmacy, Karina Nazarian, Artin Aghakhani and Linda Nguyen (Co-Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rima Shafrazian,
Gevik Shafrazian, and Greta Shafrazian, individually and as successor in
interest of the estate of Joseph Shafrazian (Decedent) (collectively
Plaintiffs) bring this action against Natalie Gold, Inc. dba Burbank Tower
Pharmacy,
WellRx, Inc. dba Wellness
Lab, Jivan
Melikian, M.D., Artin Aghakhani, R.PH., Karina Nazarian, Linda Nguyen, R.PH.,
Aram Manoukian, and Arsen Hovanesyan, M.D. (Hovanesyan) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege
Defendants negligently failed to deliver Decedent’s prescriptions for a heart
condition, ultimately resulting in his death. 
 
Before
the Court is a Motion for Summary Judgment brought by Hovanesyan.
Plaintiff asserts two causes of action against Hovanesyan for (1) Wrongful
Death by Medical Negligence and (2) Survival Action. Plaintiffs filed a notice
of non-opposition; however, an opposition was filed by Natalie Gold, Inc. dba Burbank Tower Pharmacy,
Karina Nazarian, Artin Aghakhani and Linda Nguyen (hereinafter Co-Defendants). 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 437c(a).) “[I]f
all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is
no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary
judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)
 
The
moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he
does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord C.C.P. § 437c(p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangsterv. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Co-Defendants’ Opposition 
 
The
Court notes that neither it, nor the parties, have located any California state
court authority directly addressing whether a co-defendant can oppose another
co-defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
However, in Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, the California Supreme Court held that "any adverse party" may
oppose a summary judgment motion. A real party in interest has standing to
prosecute an action, except as otherwise provided by statute. (C.C.P. §367.) A
real party in interest must have an actual, substantial interest in the subject
matter of the action. (County of Alameda v. State Board of Control
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1103.) A person who has an actual interest in the
subject matter of an action, and therefore a right to relief, has standing.
(Parker v. Bowron (1953) 40 Cal.2d 344, 351.) A party to whom indemnity might
be owed or who would owe indemnity is a real party in such an action. (Time
for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development Co. (1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 30, 40.).  However, that
is not the case here.
 
On
May 16, 2023, Co-Defendant’s filed their Cross-Complaint stating causes of
action for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution, and (3) Declaratory
Relief. The adverse parties in Co-Defendants’ Cross-Complaint are the fictious
entities/persons identified as Roes 1-50. A review of the Court’s records
reveals that Co-Defendants have never amended their Cross-Complaint to identify
the parties unknown to them at the time of filing. Nor have Co-Defendants ever
independently filed a Cross-Complaint against Hovanesyan. As such, it would
appear to the Court that Co-Defendants lack standing to oppose this motion. 
 
 In reaching this conclusion, in addition to Aguilar
as noted above, the court finds the United States District Court case of Eckert
v. City of Sacramento (E.D. Cal. 2009) 2009 WL 3211278, helpful. In Eckert,
the Court stated:
 
Union Pacific raises a
procedural question that has been infrequently addressed: “[i]n the absence of
cross-claims, may one co-defendant be the sole … opposition to another
co-defendant’s motion for summary judgment?” The Blonder Court answered
the question in the negative, concluding that in the absence of a crossclaim, a
co-defendant lacks standing to oppose his co-defendant’s motion for summary
judgment. 
 
Under the rationale of
Blonder, since there is no crossclaim between the Defendants, Union
Pacific and the City are not adverse parties and the City therefore does not
have standing to oppose Union Pacific’s motion for summary judgment. The City’s
arguments opposing Union Pacific’s motion will therefore not be considered.
 
(Id.
at 3, citing to Blonder v. Casco Inn Residential Care, Inc. (D.Me. May
4, 2000) 2000 WL 761895, at *1 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
The Court
finds the rationale set forth, and referred to in Eckert is persuasive.
(See also Fraioli v. Lemcke, 328 F.Supp.2d 250 (D.R.I.2004) 263 n. 4 [“[S]ince
none of the defendants in this case have filed cross claims against each other,
the defendants are not adverse parties who are entitled to object to each
others’ motions for summary judgment.”]; Dixon v. County of Alameda
(N.D.Cal. Apr.18, 1997) 1997 WL 220311, at *6 n. 8 [noting that co-defendant
did not have standing to oppose co-defendant’s motion for summary judgment]; C.F.
Bean Corp. v. Clayton Indus. Ltd. (E.D.La. Aug.19, 1996) 1996 WL 470644, at
*1 [same].) 
 
Further,
that language of C.C.P. § 437c indicates there is no standing for a
co-defendant to oppose a motion for summary judgment that does not seek relief
against it. (See C.C.P. § 437c(p)(2) [If the defendant meets its burden to show
that a cause of action has no merit by showing that an element of the cause of
action cannot be established, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”].) 
 
Request for a Continuance
 
Although
the Court finds that the Co-Defendants do not have standing, it will further
note that a request for continuance is denied for the reasons stated in
Hovanesyan’s Repy to Co-Defendants’ Opposition.
 
Facts 
 
In order to determine whether Hovanesyan has
produced unrefuted evidence that he adhered to the standard of care, the Court
finds it useful to provide a brief summary of the general facts of the case. 
 
On February 2, 2022, Decedent presented to his
cardiologist, Hovanesyan, for a history and physical. (Exh. G. pp. 1997.) Decedent’s
history and physical revealed that he suffered from a small to medium anterior
perfusion defect consistent with ischemia. (Id.) On March 1, 2022,
Decedent presented to Adventist Health Glendale wherein Hovanesyan performed a
coronary angiography. (Id. at pp. 1982-1987.) 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ claims for
medical negligence against Hovanesyan are purely in reference to his alleged
failure to ensure Decedent’s receipt of the medication Plavix. Plaintiff makes
no allegations as to whether Hovanesyan negligently performed the coronary
angiography. (See FAC ¶ 24 [“Defendants Dr. Hovanesyan and Dr. Melikian
and DOES 1 through 10 were responsible for prescribing the Clopidogrel/Plavix,
following up, and making sure that Mr. Shafrazian was taking Clopidogrel/Plavix
after his procedure.].) 
 
Hovanesyan’s post-procedure Progress Notes for
Decedent show that Dr. Melikian prescribed Plavix, Nitroglycerin, and Aspirin on
March 1, 2022 on an inpatient basis. (See Exh. G, p. 1989-1993 & 2090.)
Decedent’s records also indicate that, on March 2, 2022 at 9:41 a.m., Hovanesyan
ordered outpatient prescriptions for Plavix, Nitroglycerin, and Aspirin. (Id.
at 2091.) These prescriptions appear to have been ordered to Burbank Tower
Pharmacy. (Id.) Further, the discharge paperwork issued to and signed by
Decedent included a “Home Medications” list which instructed Decedent to take a
daily dose of Plavix. (Id. at 2045, 2067.)
 
Records reflect that on March 2, 2022 at 9:42
a.m., Burbank Tower Pharmacy received Hovanesyan’s prescription order.
(Aghakhani Depo. p. 89, ¶¶ 19-25; Abramian Depo. p. 73, ¶¶ 8-25; Koroglu
Depo. p., 53, ¶¶ 2-5.) Though the parties disagree as to why, it is clear
that the Plavix and Aspirin prescriptions were placed “on hold” by Burbank
Tower Pharmacy. Hovanesyan is of the opinion that the medications were placed “on
hold” as the result of Decedent’s not having been given the medication. (See
Aghakhani Depo. p. 26, ¶¶ 8-15 [“She told me the patient never picked up
the medication…that’s why they put it on hold.”].) 
 
On March 14, 2022, Decedent suffered a heart
attack and died. (Exh. I.) An autopsy report revealed that Decedent’s cause of
death was a myocardial infarction in the left ventricular free wall. (Exh. J.) 
 
Medical Negligence 
 
As concerns the action for Medical Negligence, Hovanesyan
argues that summary judgment must be granted because there is no triable issue
of fact as to whether his actions adhered to the standard of care in treating
Decedent. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for medical
malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the
duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions,
Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)
 
The standard of care against which the acts of
a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of
experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be
proved by their testimony. (Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
601.) When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports
his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence. (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984–985
[citations omitted].) 
 
Hovanesyan submits the declaration of Michael L.
Chaikin, M.D. (Chaikin), in support of his motion. Chaikin states that he is a
board-certified cardiologist and has been practicing cardiology since 1980.
(Chaikin Decl. ¶ 2.) Chaikin bases his declaration on his review of
Decedent’s medical records as well as the depositions of Greta Shafrazian,
Givek Shafrazian, Rima Shafrazian, Artin Aghakhani, Linda Nguyen, Sarineh
Abramian, and Yolanda Siraki. (Chaikin Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Chaikin states that, in his medical opinion,
Hovanesyan appropriately documented that Decedent was receiving Plavix on an
inpatient basis after the procedure. (Chaikin Decl. ¶ 9.) Chaikin further
states that Hovanesyan’s ordering of Plavix to Burbank Tower Pharmacy was
within the standard of care. (Id.) Chaikin states that the records for
Burbank Tower Pharmacy indicate they received the prescription order on March
2, 2022. (Id.) Chaikin states that, from the review of the deposition
testimony in this matter, it is unclear why the Plavix prescription was placed
on hold. (Id.) Regardless, Chaikin states that, from his review
of the records and testimony, it is clear that Hovanesyan did not place any
prescriptions on hold. (Id.) Chaikin concludes that, in his medical
opinion, no act or omission of Hovanesyan caused or contributed to Decedent’s
passing. (Chaikin Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
The Court is satisfied from
the testimony of Chaikin that Hovanesyan’s
actions were within the applicable standard of care. The Court notes that
Plaintiffs have produced no expert testimony in contravention of Chaikin’s
statements. It follows that Hovanesyan has demonstrated by unrefuted evidence
that no triable issue of fact exists as to his breach of the standard of care
in prescribing Plavix to Decedent. The holding in Munro makes abundantly
clear that summary judgment must therefore be granted in favor of Hovanesyan. 
 
Survival Action 
 
“A cause of action that survives the
death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s
successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 7000) of
Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and an action may be commenced by the
decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”
(C.C.P. § 377.30.) “A survivor claim is also a statutory cause of action;
however, unlike a wrongful death claim, the survival statutes do not create a
cause of action but merely prevent the abatement of the decedent’s cause of
action and provide for its enforcement by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor in interest.” (San Diego Gas & Elec. Co. v.
Superior Ct. (2007) 146 Cal. App. 4th 1545, 1553.)
 
Here the Court finds Plaintiffs’ survival
action must also fail as they are unable to establish any triable issues of
material fact regarding the breach element of the wrongful death cause of
action above.
 
Conclusion 
 
Hovanesyan has adequately demonstrated
that his behavior was within the standard of care by virtue of his expert’s
testimony. Plaintiffs have produced no evidence to the contrary and a
non-opposition was filed. As Plaintiffs’ survival action assumes the medical
negligence of Hovanesyan, it too presents no triable issue of fact.   Co-Defendants do not have standing to contest
the summary judgment and have not justified a continuance.
 
Accordingly, Hovanesyan’s unopposed
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Arsen
Hovanesyan
M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly for hearing on June 26, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, HOVANESYAN TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: July
26, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 