 Case Number:  23TRCV00383    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
MICHAEL
  HOLLIEN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00383




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOY
  FAALATA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 31,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Andrew Haling,
Esq., for plaintiff Michael Hollien
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that the attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for plaintiff Michael Hollien, effective upon the filing
of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On February 9, 2023, plaintiff
Michael Hollien filed a complaint against Joy Faalata, Chris Bustillo, Ramsey
Karame, and GRS Property Management for (1) negligence, (2) statutory
liability, and (3) strict liability. 
Plaintiff alleges that he was viciously attacked by a dog at or near the
property located at 4052 W. 164th St., Lawndale, CA 90260.  Defendants Faalata and Bustillo were the
owners of the dog.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Andrew
Haling, Esq./Wilshire Law Firm, PLC, seeks to be relieved as counsel for
plaintiff Michael J. Hollien.
Counsel states in his declaration
that the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for attorney
to carry out representation effectively and that “counsel believes in good
faith, in proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the
existence of other good cause for withdrawal.”
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 