 Case Number:  21STCV36208    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ESPERANZA
  ASBERRY, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV36208




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CENTINELA
  SKILLED NURSING & WELLNESS CENTRE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 31,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Centinela
Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, LLC and Brius Management Company
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Esperanza Asberry, et al.
Demurrer
to Complaint
 
The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd and 3rd causes of
action in the complaint.
BACKGROUND
            On September 30, 2021, plaintiffs
Esperanza Asberry, Samuel L. Asberry, Jr., and Candis Ashberry aka Candis
Asberry, ind. and as heirs and successors in interest to Samuel L. Asberry filed
a complaint against Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre, Centinela
Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, Centinela Skilled Nursing &
Wellness Centre West, LLC, Brius Management Company, Mohsen Mobasser, Marie
Faye Sorianosos, Donte Asberry, and Tessie Asberry for (1)
wrongful death, (2) violations of Elder Abuse Act, (3) violation of Health
& Safety Code 1430(b), and (4) wrongful death.
            On
February 22, 2023, the case was transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.

LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Under CCP §377.32:  “(a) The person who seeks to commence an
action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent's successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an
affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this
state stating all of the following:
(1) The decedent's name.
(2) The date and place of the
decedent's death.
(3) ‘No proceeding is now pending
in California for administration of the decedent's estate.’
(4) If the decedent's estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent's cause of action to the successor in interest.
(5) Either of the following, as
appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
(A) ‘The affiant or declarant is
the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in
the action or proceeding.’
(B) ‘The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to
the decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.’
(6) ‘No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding.’
(7) ‘The affiant or declarant
affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California that the foregoing is true and correct.’
 
(b) Where more than one person
executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements
required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that
fact.
(c) A certified copy of the
decedent's death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.”
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, LLC and Brius Management
Company demur to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action on the
grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action and are uncertain and plaintiffs lack standing. 
            The
complaint alleges that individually and collectively, defendants owned,
controlled, operated, designed, built, maintained, inspected, furnished,
supervised, and/or controlled the real property and facility at 950 South
Flower St., Inglewood.  Complaint, ¶29.  Decedent, who was 81 years old, was placed
into the custodian care and custody of defendants at the facility and was a
resident there.  Decedent was admitted to
the facility for physical therapy, blood pressure regulation assistance,
treatment and care for symptoms of dementia and strokes, and other limiting
conditions.  Id., ¶30.  During decedent’s residence at the facility,
defendants knew that decedent was in a compromised physical state.  Decedent could not really move, feed himself,
or care for himself.  As a result,
decedent required close supervision, close monitoring, assistance with daily
functions, and medical attention to ensure decedent’s health, safety, and
wellbeing.  Id., ¶31.  Particularly noteworthy, decedent arrived
with critical needs arising from dementia and strokes and blood pressure
irregularities.  Id., ¶32.  Defendants also knew, by virtue of decedent’s
physical state, that decedent was dependent on defendants for all activities of
daily living including, feeding and dietary planning, skin care, hygiene,
infection control/prevention, toileting, medical care, and physical
rehabilitation/exercise.  Id., ¶33.  Defendants were required to provide decedent
with care for some or all of decedent’s fundamental and basic needs at the
facility.  Id., ¶34.  Due to defendants’ conduct, decedent died on
April 29, 2020.  Id., ¶35.
Standing
            Defendants
argue that the allegations are insufficient that plaintiffs have standing
because they have not filed declarations pursuant to CCP §377.32.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that an abatement is not warranted because they
are permitted to file an affidavit after filing a complaint and prior to
trial.  Plaintiffs also contend that they
have standing under the 2nd cause of action because they fall under
the definition of “interested person.” 
See Welf. & Inst. Code §15657.3.
            The
court finds that the allegations are insufficient that plaintiffs have
standing.  They acknowledge that they
have not complied with CCP §377.32.
            2nd
cause of action for elder abuse
“[W]e distill several factors that
must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the
Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the
Act.  The plaintiff must allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the
defendant (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2)
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services
necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with
knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such
injury.  The plaintiff must also allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the
elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.  Finally, the facts constituting the neglect
and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury ‘must be
pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules governing
statutory claims.” In order to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse
Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that
would support recovery of punitive damages.” Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 406-07 (citations
omitted). 
            The
complaint alleges that during the time decedent was a resident at the facility,
decedent suffered abuse of an elder, neglect, and abandonment and
isolation.  Complaint, ¶¶61-63.
Defendants breached their duties by withholding and failing to provide decedent
with basic and necessary hygienic care, unsoiled incontinence pads/adult
diapers, basic and necessary care to protect decedent from health and safety
hazards; withholding and failing to implement or provide policies, procedures,
and safety measures necessary to prevent decedent’s exposure to illnesses and
infections; and failing to observe and report changes of conditions to family
and physicians.  Id., ¶64. 
            Defendants
argue that plaintiffs have not set forth any allegations as to the abandonment,
isolation, neglect or abuse allegedly sustained by decedent.  Defendants also argue that plaintiffs have
not sufficiently alleged a pattern of egregious conduct or authorization or
ratification.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient.
            The
court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  They are conclusory, and plaintiffs have not
pled with particularity.  Instead,
plaintiffs parrot the definitions under the Welfare & Inst. Code for abuse
of an elder, neglect, and abandonment and isolation.  Further, plaintiffs have not alleged
sufficiently egregious conduct or authorization or ratification.
            3rd
cause of action for violation of Health & Safety Code §1430(b)
            The
complaint alleges the same as under the 2nd cause of action.
            Defendants
argue the same as under the 2nd cause of action.
In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that the allegations are sufficient.
            The
court finds that the allegations are insufficient.  They are conclusory and plaintiffs have not
pled with particularity.
            Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action.
Moving
defendants are ordered to give notice of the ruling.