 Case Number:  23TRCV01796    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
PATRICIA
  AGUILAR CAIRNS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01796




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GENERAL
  MOTORS LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 31,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant General Motors LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Demurrer to FAC
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED to the 4th
cause of action.  The motion to strike is
DENIED.  Defendant is ordered to file an
answer within ten days.
BACKGROUND
            On June 5, 2023, plaintiff Patricia
Aguilar Cairns filed a complaint against General Motors LLC for (1) violation
of Song Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, (2) violation of Song Beverly
Act – breach of implied warranty, (3) violation of Song Beverly Act, section
1793.2, and (4) fraud – fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant General Motors LLC demurs
to the 4th cause of action on the ground that it fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that on April
5, 2022, plaintiff purchased a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado, VIN No.
1GCPWBEK9NZ170346.  Complaint, ¶4.  In connection with the purchase, plaintiff
received various warranties—a 3-year/36,000 mile express bumper to bumper
warranty, a 5-year/60,000 mile powertrain warranty, which covers the engine and
transmission.  Id., ¶5.  Defendant designed, manufactured, modified,
installed, and made decisions regarding the transmission, including the 8L90
and 8L45 transmissions.  Id., ¶9.  GM marketed and sold its new eight-speed
automatic transmissions as having “world-class performance” rivaling top
performance vehicles, lightning-fast and smooth shifting, along with improved
fuel efficiency.  Id., ¶10.  In actuality, the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions
deliver anything but “comfort and drivability,” “lightning-fast shifts,” and
“enhanced refinement, particularly during low-speed gear changes.”  Plaintiff had no way of knowing about
defendant’s deception regarding the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions having a design
defect based on a typical architecture that causes “harsh shifts” in lower
gears, which can feel like jerking, lurching, and/or hesitations (“Transmission
Defect”).  Id., ¶11.  The subject vehicle was delivered to
plaintiff with serious defects.  Id., ¶12.
Plaintiff further alleges that
prior to purchase, plaintiff spoke with the dealer sales representative about
the vehicle, inspected the Monroney sticker posted by GM on the vehicle and
test drove the vehicle.  Plaintiff was
never informed by the dealer sales representative that the vehicle suffered
from the Transmission Defect and relied upon this fact in purchasing the
vehicle.  Had plaintiff been informed,
they would not have purchased it.  Id., ¶13.  Shortly after plaintiff purchased the
vehicle, they began to experience the Transmission Defect, which gradually
worsened over time.  Id., ¶14.  From September 2014 to at least February
2019, GM issued at least 60 service bulletins and service bulletin updates to
its dealers in the U.S., but not its customers, acknowledging problems of harsh
shifting, shuddering, jerking, clunking, and delays in acceleration or
deceleration relating to the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions.  Id., 41. 
Plaintiff has brought in their vehicle to authorized GM’s dealerships
repeatedly for servicing but has been provided no remedy to date.  Id., ¶15.
4th cause of action for
fraud – fraudulent inducement – concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant
with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended
to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact;
(4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she
did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5)
plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.
Under this cause of action, the
complaint alleges that GM intentionally and knowingly falsely concealed,
suppressed, and /or omitted material facts including the standard, quality or
grade of the GM’s 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions were defective and susceptible to
sudden and premature failure, exposing drivers, occupants, and members of the
public to safety risks with the intent that plaintiff rely on GM’s
omissions.  As a direct result of
defendant’s fraudulent conduct, plaintiff has suffered actual damages.  Complaint, ¶121.  GM intentionally concealed the design defect
found in the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions because of the common architecture of
the transmission that causes “harsh shifts” in lower gears, which can feel like
jerking, lurching, and/or hesitations. 
Id., ¶122.  The Transmission
Defect also causes premature wear to the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions’
components and other vehicle parts, which can require repeated and/or expensive
repairs.  Id., ¶123.  GM had exclusive knowledge of the
defect.  Id., ¶126.  GM intended to deceive plaintiff by
concealing the known issues with the Transmission Defect in an effort to sell
the subject vehicle at a maximum price. 
Id., ¶130.
Defendant argues that the claim
does not provide the requisite specificity. 
Defendant also asserts that plaintiff fails to allege a transactional
relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose on the part of GM.
The court rules as follows:  The court finds that the allegations are
sufficient to support the elements at the pleading stage for fraudulent
concealment.  Plaintiff need not allege
with particularity.  See Alfaro,
supra.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant
concealed or suppressed a material fact. 
See Complaint, ¶¶24-40, 76, 121, 122, 127.  As to duty, “[s]uppression of a material fact
is actionable when there is a duty of disclosure, which may arise from a
relationship between the parties, such as a buyer-seller relationship.”  Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828, 843, review pending.  In Dhital, a Song Beverly case,
defendant Nissan argued that “plaintiffs did not adequately plead the existence
of a buyer-seller relationship between the parties, because plaintiffs bought
the car from a Nissan dealership (not from Nissan itself).  At the pleading stage . . . , we conclude
plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient. 
Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership,
that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s
authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan
vehicles to consumers.  In light of those
allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there
was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.”  Id. at 845.  Here, plaintiff alleges similar.  Plaintiff alleges that “[p]rior to purchase,
plaintiff spoke with the dealer sales representative about the vehicle,
inspected the Monroney sticker posted by General Motors LLC on the vehicle . .
. . Plaintiff’s vehicle was designed, manufactured, sold, distributed,
advertised, marketed and warranted by General Motors LLC.”  Complaint, ¶13.  See also para. 18 for agency
allegations.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant
had a duty to disclose the fact.  See
Complaint, ¶¶74, 126.a.  See also Khan
v. Shiley Inc. (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 848, 858 (“[A] manufacturer of a
product may be liable for fraud when it conceals material product information
from potential users.”).  
Further, plaintiff alleges that
defendant intentionally concealed the fact with an intent to defraud.  See Complaint, ¶122.  The court can infer that defendant placed the
vehicle into the stream of commerce, presumably for profit.  Plaintiff was unaware of the fact and they would
not have purchased the vehicle, had they known of such defects and sustained
damages.  See Complaint, ¶¶11, 13, 134.  Further, plaintiff alleges that defendant had
exclusive knowledge.  See Complaint,
¶126.  
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant GM requests that the
court strike the demand for punitive damages in the prayer for relief.
Defendant argues that the 4th
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and thus it cannot support punitive damages.
In light of the ruling on the
demurrer to the 4th cause of action, the motion is DENIED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.
 
 
 
 