  Case Number:  20TRCV00028    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JEROME
  ANGELES FELIX, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20TRCV00028




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GERARDO
  ANGELES FELIX, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 31,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Court-appointed receiver Cynthia Troup
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Disburse Settlement Proceeds, Pay Referee Costs, and Referee’s Attorneys
Fees
 
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition or objection was filed.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
On January 10, 2020,
plaintiff Jerome Angeles Felix filed a complaint against Gerardo Angeles Felix
and all persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate,
lien, or interest in the property for (1) quiet title, (2) declaratory relief,
(3) partition, (4) cancellation of void instrument, (5) accounting, and (6)
slander of title.
On April 2, 2020, Gerardo
Angeles Felix filed a cross-complaint against Jerome Angeles Felix for
financial elder abuse.
On February 24, 2022,
plaintiff filed a notice of settlement and requested that the court set an OSC
re status of settlement and dismissal 90 days because the obligation under the
settlement agreement was to be completed by end of May 2022.
On June 6, 2022, the hearing
was continued as counsel represented that the settlement had not been completed
and that the parties were continuing to negotiate.
On November 28, 2022,
plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the entire action, subject to the
court retaining jurisdiction over the case pending performance of the
settlement agreement.
On May 17, 2023, the court
signed an order as to the parties’ stipulation for order re motion to enforce
settlement agreement.
On July 10, 2023, the
parties stipulated and the court ordered that the court appointed referee
Cynthia Troup retain AWB Law, P.C. as her counsel to assist her with her
obligations she had undertaken to facilitate the sale of the real property.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §873.710 states:  “(a) Upon making a sale of property, the
referee shall report the sale to the court.
(b) The referee’s report shall
contain, in addition to such other information as may be appropriate, all of
the following information:
(1) A description of the property
sold to each purchaser.
(2) The name of the purchaser.
(3) The sale price.
(4) The terms and conditions of the
sale and the security, if any, taken.
(5) Any amounts payable to
lienholders.
(6) A statement as to contractual
or other arrangements or conditions as to agents’ commissions.
(7) Any determination and
recommendation as to opening and closing public and private ways, roads,
streets, and easements.
(8) Other material facts relevant
to the sale and the confirmation proceeding.”
CCP §873.720 states: “(a) A purchaser, the referee, or any party may
move the court to confirm or set aside the sale.
(b) The moving party shall give not
less than 10 days’ notice of motion to:
(1) The purchaser if the purchaser
is not the moving party; and
(2) All other parties who have
appeared in the action.”
Under Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1184,
“(a) A receiver must present by noticed motion or stipulation of all parties:  
(1) A final account and report;
(2) A request for the discharge;
and
(3) A request for exoneration of
the receiver's surety. . . . 
(b) No memorandum needs to be
submitted in support of the motion or stipulation served and filed under (a)
unless the court so orders.  . . . 
(c) Notice of the motion or of the
stipulation must be given to every person or entity known to the receiver to
have a substantial, unsatisfied claim that will be affected by the order or
stipulation, whether or not the person or entity is a party to the action or
has appeared in it. . . .
(d) If any allowance of
compensation for the receiver or for an attorney employed by the receiver is
claimed in an account, it must state in detail what services have been
performed by the receiver or the attorney and whether previous allowances have
been made to the receiver or attorney and the amounts.”
DISCUSSION
            The
court-appointed receiver, Cynthia Troup, requests an order to disburse
settlement proceeds, pay referee costs, and to pay the referee’s attorney’s
fees and costs.
            Referee
states that the property was sold (and escrow closed) on September 21, 2023 for
$838,000 and that the net proceeds are $741,281.68.
            Referee
Troup seeks $8417.50 (45.5 hours) in fees and $9867 in costs.  Referee Troup’s attorney requests $5580 (13.4
hrs.).
            The
court notes that Receiver Troup did not request discharge, exoneration of the
receiver’s surety, and file a final report and accounting, as required by Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1184.  Receiver did file a declaration and exhibits
detailing costs and fees, but they are not the same as a final report and
accounting for the court to consider.  Receiver’s
requests for fees and costs and attorney’s fees are thus premature and will be
considered in conjunction with a motion under Rule 3.1184.
The motion is thus DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
            Receiver is to provide notice of the
ruling.


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JEROME
  ANGELES FELIX, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20TRCV00028




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GERARDO
  ANGELES FELIX, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 31,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Jerome Angeles Felix
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Gerardo Angeles Felix
Motion
for Fees and Costs Pursuant to Written Agreement
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On January 10, 2020,
plaintiff Jerome Angeles Felix filed a complaint against Gerardo Angeles Felix
and all persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate,
lien, or interest in the property for (1) quiet title, (2) declaratory relief,
(3) partition, (4) cancellation of void instrument, (5) accounting, and (6)
slander of title.
On April 2, 2020, Gerardo
Angeles Felix filed a cross-complaint against Jerome Angeles Felix for
financial elder abuse.
On February 24, 2022,
plaintiff filed a notice of settlement and requested that the court set an OSC
re status of settlement and dismissal 90 days because the obligation under the
settlement agreement was to be completed by end of May 2022.
On June 6, 2022, the hearing
was continued as counsel represented that the settlement had not been completed
and that the parties were continuing to negotiate.
On November 28, 2022,
plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the entire action, subject to the
court retaining jurisdiction over the case pending performance of the
settlement agreement.
On May 17, 2023, the court
signed an order as to the parties’ stipulation for order re motion to enforce
settlement agreement and appointed Cynthia Troup as referee.
On July 10, 2023, the
parties stipulated and the court ordered that the court appointed referee
Cynthia Troup retain AWB Law, P.C. as her counsel to assist her with her
obligations she had undertaken to facilitate the sale of the real property.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 664.6 states: “If parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the settlement.  If requested by
the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  
“A trial court, when ruling on a
section 664.6 motion, acts as a trier of fact. 
Section 664.6’s ‘express authorization for trial courts to determine
whether a settlement has occurred is an implicit authorization for the trial
court to interpret the terms and conditions to settlement.’”  Skulnick
v. Roberts Express, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal. App. 4th 884, 889 (citations
omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests an order as follows:
1.     Determining
that defendant breached the settlement agreement to the detriment of the
parties to the settlement agreement;
2.     Allocating
the fees and costs of the court-appointed partition referee against defendant’s
portion of the net sale proceeds of house;
3.     Determining
that plaintiff is the prevailing party and awarding plaintiff reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs to be paid from defendant’s portion of the net sale
proceeds of the house;
4.     Determining
that the fees and costs incurred by plaintiff in connection with the partition
of the house were incurred for the common benefit of the parties; and as such,
plaintiff is entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees so incurred.
As
background, during the pendency of the action, the parties entered into a
settlement agreement on February 22, 2022. 

The
February 22, 2022 settlement agreement states in part: 
4.     Defendant’s
Obligations.  4.1.1. By
no later than 120 days from January 19, 2022, defendant will obtain financing
to pay $400,000.  Should defendant fail
to pay the settlement sum to plaintiff within 120 days, defendant agrees to
list the subject property for sale with a licensed real estate agent who will
be acceptable to both plaintiff and defendant, and plaintiff and defendant
shall each receive 50% of the net proceeds from the sale of the subject property
after deducting the costs of sale.  . . .
The parties will exchange the names of real estate agents and will agree upon a
real estate agent to list the subject property should defendant fail to obtain
financing under this agreement. . . .
16.  Enforcement of Agreement.  If any legal action or other proceeding is brought
for the enforcement or interpretation of this Agreement, or because of an
alleged dispute, breach, default, or misrepresentation in connection with any
of the provisions of this Agreement, the successful or prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs incurred in
that action or proceeding, in additional to any other relief to which it or he
may be entitled. . . .
23. Further
Acts.  In addition to the acts
recited in this Agreement, the Parties agree to perform, or cause to be
performed on the date of this agreement, or thereafter, any and all such
further acts as may be reasonably necessary to consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby.  Each of the Parties
agrees that he or it will execute and deliver all such documents and
instruments as may be necessary and appropriate to effectuate the terms of this
Agreement.
 
On
February 24, 2022, plaintiff filed a notice of settlement of entire action,
stating that “the obligation under the settlement agreement is to be completed
by the end of May 2022.”  On August 16,
2022, at the OSC hearing re dismissal, counsel represented that the property
had not been sold; plaintiff’s counsel requested a trial date; defense counsel
requested that the case be dismissed pursuant to CCP §664.6.  The court ordered that any party may make any
motion to enforce the settlement if they so choose.  On November 28, 2022, plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal, subject to the court retaining jurisdiction over the
case pending performance of the settlement agreement.  The case was dismissed, and the court
retained jurisdiction under CCP §664.6.
On April
25, 2023, at the hearing on plaintiff’s ex parte application to enforce
settlement – partition referee, the court stated that the “filing does not show
that there was an agreement to a listing by a realtor agreed to by the
parties.  The parties are encouraged to
meet and confer over the terms of any pending sale or any agreement to
continued or alternative listing.  Any
further application on this requires the presentation on each side as to the
validity of the current listing agreement and notice to the listing agency of
the potential for the court finding that the listing agreement entered into
exclusively by one side is voidable.  The
request for a referee may include suggestions by each side of 3 persons who may
or may not be other potential realtors or listing agents as well. . . . The
Court notes that in a partition action usually a referee or agreed realtor
acting as a referee is appropriate and encourages that parties spend a
substantial time meeting and conferring before bringing a noticed motion.”
On May 4,
2023, plaintiff filed a motion to enforce settlement agreement, and for order
appointing referee to sell property and hold proceeds, and for attorney’s fees
and costs.
  Before the hearing on the motion, on May 17,
2023, the parties entered into a stipulation and the court ordered:  “Plaintiff’s motion is granted consistent
with the provisions of this Order” (¶2) and “Plaintiff withdraws his request
for attorney’s fees and costs with the instant motion, without prejudice to
file a subsequent motion for the determination of the prevailing party of
plaintiff’s Motion for Enforcement of Settlement Agreement and for attorneys’
[fees] and costs authorized by the Settlement Agreement.”  Order, ¶6. 
Cynthia Troup was appointed as partition referee.  The order also provides for ½ of the net proceeds
to plaintiff’s counsel and ½ of the net proceeds to defense counsel, less
$95,000 to be retained from defendant’s proceeds “until determination of the
attorneys’ fee motion of plaintiff by this court or stipulation.”
            In
the herein motion, plaintiff seeks to have the court find that defendant
breached the February 2, 2022 settlement agreement and to award plaintiff
attorney’s fees and costs incurred in enforcing it in the amount of $72,642.14.  Plaintiff also requests that the court charge
the referee’s costs and fees and the referee’s attorney’s fees against defendant’s
portion of the net sale proceeds of the house. 

            Plaintiff
asserts that defendant breached the settlement agreement at paras. 4 and 23,
supra, by (1) not collaborating with plaintiff regarding the selection of a
broker, by unilaterally engaging a realtor on May 26, 2022 to list the
property, listing the property for more than the market value, and including a
contingency in the listing; (2) obstructing or preventing the showing of the
property and was uncooperative regarding any marketing effort; (3) after
plaintiff and defendant accepted an offer for $860,000 on February 22, 2023, failing
to permit the buyers to inspect the property prior to close of escrow; (4) violating
the purchase and sale agreement by not vacating the house at close of escrow;
and (5) failing to respond to an amendment wherein buyers would waive the
requirement to vacate for a credit of $20,000, failing to timely sign documents
and respond to emails.
            Plaintiff
argues that there would have been no need for a partition referee if defendant
had not obstructed the sale of the house and presented a continuing threat to
do the same in any future sale.  
            In
opposition, defendant argues that he did not breach the settlement agreement.  Defendant asserts that after he was unable to
obtain financing to buy out plaintiff’s half interest, plaintiff’s then counsel
demanded that defendant list the property for sale immediately, which defendant
did by signing a six-month exclusive listing agreement with Sonny Ramiro.  Defendant also contends that plaintiff’s then
counsel had “direct and constant contact” with Ramiro and that plaintiff was
“constantly in touch” with Ramiro. 
Defendant also argues that plaintiff was not in compliance with the
settlement agreement (at para. 4) because plaintiff unilaterally signed a
listing agreement for sale of the house. 
Defendant asserts that he cooperated in signing all documents relevant
to plaintiff’s attempts to sell the house (in February-March 2023), except for
the 2nd escrow amendment of an additional $20,000 price reduction,
for which he was never given a reasonable explanation.  Further, he contends, he “offered not to
stand in the way of [plaintiff] seeking appointment of a referee to sell the
house as a way to get around [defendant’s] wife’s refusal to sign a quitclaim
deed or to vacate the house when escrow closed.”  He claims that he wanted the house sold and
agreed to move out when escrow closed, whether his wife moved out or not.  Defendant also argues that the amount
requested for attorney’s fees is excessive and unsupported.
            The
court rules as follows:  As to (1) above
under plaintiff’s arguments, the court finds that there was no material breach
of para. 4 of the settlement agreement. 
Under that paragraph, defendant was required to list the subject
property for sale, which he did, with a real estate agent who would be
acceptable to both plaintiff and defendant. 
Plaintiff does not assert that real estate agent Sonny Ramiro was
unacceptable, and plaintiff did not seek to enforce the settlement agreement
during the six month listing.  Then,
plaintiff unilaterally listed the property after the other listing agreement
expired.  Also, plaintiff has not
asserted any efforts he made or that were rebuffed by defendant in exchanging
the names of real estate agents, as set forth at para. 4.  Thus, any purported “breach” was waived.  
As to (2),
obstructing or preventing the showing of the property and being uncooperative
regarding any marketing effort is vague and thus the court does not find a
breach.  
As to
(3), failing to permit the buyers to inspect the property prior to close of
escrow, the evidence does not indicate such. 
Rather, on March 6, 2023, the inspection report purportedly showed
moisture issues and that the house was in poor condition, and defendant agreed
to a price reduction and signed the first amendment.
As to
(4), purportedly intending to not vacate the house at escrow, the evidence
indicates that it was primarily defendant’s wife who was the impediment, and it
was not defendant who refused to vacate.  See defense attorney Eric Bennett decl. and
email correspondence.
As to
(5), failing to respond to an amendment wherein buyers would waive the
requirement as to vacancy for a credit of $20,000, there is a dispute as to
whether the amendment was explained adequately to defendant and defense counsel
and whether “recurring and non-recurring closing costs” in the amendment was
reasonable.  See Bennett decl., ¶¶22-23.
Thus, as
to para. 23, the court finds that defendant did not materially breach the settlement
agreement by failing to perform “such further acts as may be reasonably
necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.”
            There
is also no evidence and plaintiff does not assert that the settlement agreement
was breached after the parties stipulated to a referee.
            As
to the appointment of a referee, it appears that even if defendant cooperated
as was “reasonably necessary” to sell the property, a referee was necessary and
appropriate considering defendant’s wife who refused to execute a quitclaim and
to vacate the property.  See, for
example, February 23, 2023 email from plaintiff’s real estate agent to defense
counsel stating, “I am pretty sure that we are going to have an issue with
Gerardo’s wife signing the quit claim and allowing the close . . . . I don’t
think Gerardo’s wife will sign until she has moved out and on her own time
frame. . . . She doesn’t want to move.” 
Bennett decl.
            As
to charging the referee’s fees and costs and the referee’s attorney’s fees to
defendant only, the court denies plaintiff’s request.  A referee was appropriate and proper and is commonly
appointed in partition actions.  The fees
and costs are to be split equally.
            Thus,
the motion is DENIED as to finding defendant in breach of the settlement
agreement and awarding plaintiff attorney’s fees.  The motion is also DENIED as to charging
defendant solely for the referee’s costs and fees and the referee’s attorney’s
fees.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.