..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

Case Number: 22VECV01596
Plaintiff's Name: Binicio Humberto Grijalba, Silvia Cecilia Perez Barrios
Defendant's Name: Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena, Guadalupe Vargas, Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys
People-Names: Binicio Humberto Grijalba, Silvia Cecilia Perez Barrios, Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena, Guadalupe Vargas, Vanessa Silvia Grijalba Perez
Company-Names: Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys
Places: Van Nuys
Dates: October 14, 2022, October 16, 2020, September 5, 2023, December 18, 2023
Events: Automobile versus pedestrian accident
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiffs intend to assert a claim for punitive damages and attorney fees
Facts: Decedent Vanessa Silvia Grijalba Perez was struck by Defendant Pena's vehicle while standing next to a parked vehicle; Defendant Pena was driving while intoxicated; Plaintiffs allege Defendant Pena's blood alcohol level was 0.205% and 0.198%
Disputes: Defendant Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations; Defendant Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys moves to strike the request for punitive damages
Acts: The accident occurred on October 16, 2020; Defendant Pena was driving while intoxicated; Plaintiffs allege Defendant Pena's blood alcohol level was 0.205% and 0.198%
Agreements: None
Laws: Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, Civil Code section 3294
Statutes: Vehicle Code sections 23153 (a) and 23153 (b), Penal Code section 191.5 (a)
Roles:
* Judge: W Binicio Humberto Grijalba
* Plaintiff: Binicio Humberto Grijalba, Silvia Cecilia Perez Barrios
* Defendant: Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena, Guadalupe Vargas, Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys
Significant Statements:
* The court previously sustained Defendant's motion to strike on the basis the complaint failed to allege Defendant's level of intoxication or any "aggravating factors" in compliance with Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.
* The amended complaint now alleges Defendant Pena erratically and in an uncontrollable manner drove her vehicle well over the speed limit and crashed into the rear end of Mr. Mercado's vehicle.
* The court agrees Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts to show punitive damages as to the employer, Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys.

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the motions to strike filed by the defendants. The judge denied the motion to strike filed by Defendant Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena, finding that the amended complaint alleges sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages. The judge also denied the motion to strike filed by Defendant Pena with respect to the prayer for attorney fees, finding that the motion was premature.

The judge granted the motion to strike filed by Defendant Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys, finding that the complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages against the employer. The judge granted leave to amend the complaint to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages against the employer.

The judge's ruling is subject to change based on further briefing and argument on the motions.
