 Case Number:  22VECV01643    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  W FARZANEH
TABIBIAn v. PROVIDENCE CEDARS-SINAI TARZANA MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
demurrer to complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        December 18, 2023                          Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01643
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc.  
Responding Party:     No
opposition 
Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Grossi Decl. ¶¶2-3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 18, 2022, Plaintiff Farzaneh Tabibian filed a
complaint against Defendant Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center and
Tarzana Medical Center for negligence-premises liability. Plaintiff alleges on
August 2, 2023, Plaintiff was at the Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana walking on
a pathway that was under construction when she slipped and violently fell due
the unmaintained, hazardous condition of the floor, including loose gravel. As
a result of the incident, Plaintiff alleges she experienced immediate
excruciating pain and discomfort. This violent impact caused an acute fracture
on the fifth metatarsal. 
 
On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff named McCarthy Building
Companies, Inc. as Doe 1. On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the Providence
Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center and Tarzana Medical Center defendants. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant McCarthy
Building Companies, Inc.’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant McCarthy
Building Companies, Inc. requests this court take judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s complaint n, filed on October 18, 2022 and Plaintiff’s Amendment to
Complaint filed on June 29, 2023 (Exh. A). The court GRANTS Defendant’s request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. demurs to the to the
complaint of Plaintiff Farzaneh Tabibian on the grounds the first cause of
action for negligence-premises liability does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendant and is uncertain, ambiguous and
unintelligible. 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a
cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Wilson
v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716,
720-21.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
on the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Before filing a demurrer, demurring party is also required to meet and confer
with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See CCP
§ 430.41.) 
 
Uncertainty
 
Defendant first argues Plaintiff fails to sufficiently identify
McCarthy as a tortfeasor as Plaintiff recites the same global, generic
allegations against McCarthy, as she does against all DOE defendants, without
identifying any specific wrongdoing performed by McCarthy. Defendant contends it
is unreasonable to allege all the defendants, which are separate and distinct
entities could have all directed and/or controlled the negligent work.
Defendant further argues these allegations, as applied to McCarthy, are
conclusory, because there no facts of McCarthy’s wrongdoing that support such
conclusions against it and moreover, Plaintiff’s inconsistent use of the terms
“Defendant” and “Defendants” creates confusion. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f) provides that a pleading
is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible. (See CCP § 430.10(f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where
the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown,
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).)

 
The court finds the complaint is not so uncertain Defendant cannot
reasonably respond. Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury,
supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 616.) However, as discussed further below, the
court finds Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to support a claim
against Defendant. 
 
Sufficient Facts to State a Cause of Action for Premises Liability
 
Defendant argues the complaint does not sufficiently allege “duty”
and “breach of duty” for a premises liability cause of action nor does the
complaint sufficiently allege causation for a premises liability cause of
action. 
 
To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the
defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused
injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have
a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  
 
Defendant argues the element of duty is not satisfied because
Plaintiff fails to allege facts as to the relationship between McCarthy and the
subject premises and without facts specifying McCarthy’s role, is it unknown what is
considered “ordinary care” for McCarthy and if McCarthy failed to meet the
standard. Defendant further argues without alleging the specific wrongdoing by
McCarthy, the “substantial factor” requirement is not satisfied and the
complaint does not sufficiently allege causation. The court agrees. The
complaint has not sufficiently alleged a duty owed to Plaintiff nor how that
duty was breached. Without the duty and breach, Plaintiff has not shown
causation. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 