  Case Number:  22VECV01596    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  W BINICIO HUMBERTO GRIJALBA, et al. v.
YUVIA IRIS VARGAS PENA, et al.
 
Motion TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF plaintiff’s first
amended COMPLAINT 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
18, 2023                           Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        22VECV01596
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 14, 2022, Plaintiffs Binicio
Humberto Grijalba, individually and as successor in interest to Decedent
Vanessa Silvia Grijalba Perez, and Silvia Cecilia Perez Barrios, individually
and as successor in interest to Decedent Vanessa Silvia Grijalba Perez filed a
complaint against Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena, Guadalupe Vargas, and Wish Automotive II,
Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys (erroneously sued as “Infiniti of Van Nuys”) for Wrongful Death, Survivor Action Based on General
Negligence, Survivor Action Based on Motor Vehicle Negligence, and Survivor Action
Based On Vicarious Liability (Respondeat Superior). 
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendants Pena and Vargas arising out of an automobile versus pedestrian
accident. On October 16, 2020, Decedent, while standing next to the passenger
side of a parked vehicle, was struck by Defendant Pena’s vehicle. Defendant
Vargas was driving Defendant Pena’s vehicle while intoxicated. Plaintiff
further alleges Defendant Pena was acting in the course and scope of her
employment with Defendant Infiniti on October 16, 2020, prior to the motor
vehicle accident. Plaintiff’s complaint contains a prayer for punitive damages
based on the allegation that Defendant Vargas was intoxicated at the time of
the subject accident. 
 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendant Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
II.                 
Defendant Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys’
Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT YUVIA IRIS VARGAS PENA’S MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Defendant Yuvia Iris Vargas Pena moves to strike the prayer for
punitive damages and related allegations on the grounds Plaintiffs’ Complaint
is completely devoid of the actual facts required to demonstrate that Defendant
is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud to sustain such a prayer against
moving Defendant. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
attorney fees.[1] 
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to plead the required
elements to allow for claim for punitive damages against Defendant by failing
to present clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
The court previously sustained Defendant’s motion to strike on the
basis the complaint failed to allege Defendant’s level of intoxication or any
“aggravating factors” in compliance with Dawes v. Superior Court (1980)
111 Cal.App.3d 82. (June 30, 2023 Minute Order.) The court found the
allegations that immediately following a company sponsored function, Defendant
Pena drove her vehicle while intoxicated and told police she was at a bar drinking
Jack and Coke with co-workers, police officers observed Pena displayed symptoms
of intoxication while at the hospital, and submitted to a chemical test to
determine her blood alcohol content and thereafter was arrested did not rise to
the level described by Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 and
Dawes. 
 
The amended complaint now alleges Defendant Pena erratically and
in an uncontrollable manner drove her vehicle well over the speed limit (at
least going 70 miles an hour in a 45 mile an hour zone) when her vehicle
crashed into the rear end of Mr. Mercado’s vehicle. (FAC ¶¶16-18.) Moreover,
Defendant Pena admitted to police officers she smoked marijuana on the day of
the accident, which further impaired her ability to drive. (FAC ¶30.)
Plaintiffs also allege Defendant Pena’s blood alcohol was 0.205% and 0.198%
blood alcohol content, which is nearly threefold of the legal limit. (FAC ¶28.)
As discussed in Taylor and Dawes, there must be evidence
supporting circumstances that shown that the risk of injury was probable, e.g.
weaving through lanes of traffic, or previous convictions for similar driving
infractions or accidents. Plaintiff’s amended allegations of toxication (both
alcohol and marijuana), driving at a high rate of speed and erratic driving,
are sufficient to support a  claim for
punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
Attorney Fees 
 
Defendant also seeks to strike allegations for attorney fees on
the grounds Defendant has not been convicted of the alleged charges (Vehicle
Code sections 23153 (a) and 23153 (b), and Penal Code section 191.5 (a)).
Accordingly, if Plaintiffs claim they intend on asserting the claim/prayer for
attorney’s fees once final conviction is procured, Plaintiffs may and should
ask for leave of Court to amend the Complaint.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues as the criminal case against Defendant
Pena is pending, Plaintiffs hereby intend on asserting the claim/prayer for
attorney’s fees once final conviction is procured in the criminal case of the State
of California v. Pena. Thus, if the court is inclined to grant Defendants’
motion to strike with respect to the prayer for attorney’s
fees, Plaintiffs hereby request the court to stay its decision on the issue of
attorney’s fees until the criminal case against Defendant Pena is decided, or,
alternatively, allow Plaintiffs, without prejudice, to re-assert their claims
for attorney’s fees. 
 
The court denies the motion as premature. This can be determined
via noticed motion, if ever necessary.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.   
 
II.                 
DEFENDANT WISH AUTOMOTIVE II, INC. DBA INFINITY OF VAN NUYS
 
Defendant Wish Automotive II, Inc. dba Infinity of Van Nuys moves
to strike the request for punitive damages from Plaintiffs on the grounds Plaintiffs
fails to state sufficient facts to support any claim for punitive damages
against Wish.[2] 
 
“Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer may be
held vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the scope of
employment.” (Purton v. Marriott International, Inc. (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 499, 504.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have alleged no facts to show that
Defendant Pena was acting within the scope of her employment when the accident
occurred. Defendant Wish contends even if she was leaving a work sponsored
function, which Wish contends she was not, she had left and was driving away
from the event on her own, in her own car.
 
The complaint alleges Defendant Pena was attending a company
sponsored function, a team building event, or other company outing at Mr.
Furley's Bar. (FAC ¶14.) Defendant persists this was not a company sponsored
function but does not provide any judicially noticeable facts that it was not.
In Purton v. Marriott International, Inc., one of employees at
a company party became intoxicated and struck a vehicle while driving
home, and the victim of the collision sought to hold
the employer vicarious liable. (Purton, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 502.) The Court of Appeal concluded a trier of fact could find
that the proximate cause of the accident was the employee's intoxication, which
occurred within the scope of his employment. (Id. at p. 511.) The court
held that the party and drinking of alcoholic beverages were a conceivable
benefit to the company and also a customary incident to the employment
relationship, and that the company “created the risk of harm at its party by
allowing an employee to consume alcohol to the point of intoxication.” (Id.
at pp. 512-513.) Like Purton, Plaintiffs here allege the cause of
Decedent’s death was Defendant Pena’s intoxication during her employment. 
 
However, the court agrees Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient
facts to show punitive damages as to the employer. Civil Code section 3294 sets
forth explicit requirements for punitive damage awards against employers
(principals) for acts of their employees (agents), which includes the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Civ. Code §3294(b).) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant  Wish
Automotive’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 


