  Case Number:  22STCV32689    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Wednesday, July 31, 2024 
CASE
NUMBER:                   22STCV32689 
CASE
NAME:                        Sergio Camacho O, et al. vs William Sydney "Trey”
Prevost, III 
MOVING
PARTY:                 Defendant William Sydney “Trey” Prevost 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Sergio Camacho, Phillip Saada,
Esther Cohen, on behalf of and as Administrator for the Estate of Jack Cohen,
Ralph Cohen on behalf of and as Representative of the Estate of Jack Cohen, and
Tower 26, Inc. 
TRIAL
DATE:                        Not Set  
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK 

 

 
PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
OPPOSITION:                        17 July 2024 
 
REPLY:                                  23 July 2024
TENTATIVE:                          Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave
to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for _, at 8:30 a.m.
Defendant to give notice.

 

 
BACKGROUND 
 
On
October 3, 2022, Sergio
Camacho, Phillip Saada, and Esther Cohen, on behalf of and as 
Administrator for the Estate of Jack
Cohen, and Ralph Cohen on behalf of and as Representative 
of the Estate of Jack (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint (“Complaint”) against William Sydney 
“Trey” Prevost (“Defendant” or “Prevost”).

 
On
April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant. The FAC alleges five causes of action: (1) breach of
fiduciary duty, (2) fraud, (3) conversion, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5)
breach of contract.
 
On
June 11, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. Plaintiff opposed
the motion.  
The
matter is now before the court.
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The court
may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the United States and of any state of the United States,”
“[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of a document
is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin
v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of
the following: 
 
1)    
Attached
as Exhibit A to the Martinez Declaration is a true and correct copy of
the Articles of Incorporation of Tower 26, Inc. filed with the Secretary of
State – State of California on April 4, 2016. This document can be found on the
Secretary of State’s website at https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business.
 
2)    
Attached
as Exhibit B to the Martinez Declaration is a true and correct copy of the
Secretary of State’s RST MU- GS form entitled, “Restated Articles of
Incorporation – Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation to General Stock
Corporation” filed by Tower 26, Inc. on January 28, 2021. This document can be
found on the Secretary of State’s website at https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business.
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is granted. 
 
Demurrer to
first amended complaint[1] 
 
I.         Legal Standard 
 
A.        Demurrer¿ 
¿ 
A demurrer
is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either
the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)¿“To survive a demurrer,
the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action;
each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof
need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
B.        Motion to Strike¿ 
¿ 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
C.        Leave to Amend¿ 
¿ 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿¿ 
  
II.        Discussion
 
Defendant demurs
to all five causes of action in the FAC. Defendant argues that the Plaintiffs
lack proper standing to bring claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion,
and breach of contract. Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs failed to plead
their claim for fraud with proper specificity and that Plaintiffs’ claims for
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, conversion, and unjust enrichment are barred
by the statute of limitations. 
            
            A.        Summary of Allegations in FAC
 
In March of 2016,
Defendant founded Tower 26. (FAC, ¶ 15.)  Tower 26 was established as a Nonprofit Mutual
Benefit Corporation and has engaged in the non-retail cultivation and
manufacturing of cannabis since its outset. 
(FAC, ¶ 15.) As a Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation, Tower 26 is not
permitted to have shareholders. (FAC, ¶ 15.)  In the summer of
2016, Defendant and Plaintiff Sergio Camacho (“Camacho”) met to discuss
building a medical marijuana cultivation facility at Defendant’s warehouse.
(FAC, ¶ 17.) Mr. Camacho agreed to contribute $170,000 of start-up costs in
exchange for 20% equity interest in Tower 26. (FAC, ¶ ¶ ¶ 20, 20, 27.) 
 
On July 1, 2019, Defendant and Plaintiffs Philip Saada
(“Saada”) and Jack Cohen (“Cohen”) entered into a
Joint Venture Agreement, wherein Plaintiffs Saada and Cohen allegedly bought 51%
of Tower 26. (FAC, ¶ 34.) The FAC alleges that Defendant did not have 51% of
Tower 26 to convey to Plaintiffs Saada and Cohen and that he had sold more than
100% interest in Tower 26. (FAC, ¶ 35.) 
In the fall of 2019, Tower 26 began marijuana cultivation
at the Bradley Warehouse. (FAC, ¶ 38.)  The
FAC alleges that Defendant had used Plaintiff Camacho’s distribution license to
sell and distribute marijuana flowers without any of the other investor’s
knowledge, keeping all the proceeds for himself which went against all prior
agreements. (FAC, ¶¶ 42, 45.) Plaintiffs did not know that Defendant had been selling
marijuana until March 2020 when Camacho received a phone call requesting
authorization for the sale. (FAC, ¶ 39.)
 
Following the phone call, Camacho discovered that
Defendant had used his distribution license to sell
approximately 17,000 pounds of legally produced marijuana flowers in the black
market without the knowledge of the other investors. (FAC, ¶ 42.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant diverted and misappropriated at least $1,25,000 of
investment funds into his own accounts and that Plaintiffs have not seen any
return on their investment money since the Fall of 2017. (FAC, ¶¶ 47, 53.) 
 
B.        First Cause of Action – Breach of
Fiduciary Duty  
 
"The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Meister v. Mensinger
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A fiduciary relationship is “any relation
existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is duty
bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.” (Cleveland
v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) “Such a relation ordinarily
arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another.”
(Ibid.) “[B]before a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation,
he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of
another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a
matter of law.” (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
i.      
Plaintiffs’
Standing To Bring Claim for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The
FAC alleges that Defendant owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs because he was
the financial controller of Tower 26 and because of the role he assumed in the
Joint Venture Agreement. (FAC, ¶ 58.) The
FAC alleges that as the financial controller for Tower 26, Mr. Prevost was
solely and entirely responsible for maintaining and directing Tower 26’s
finances, including but not limited to managing investments by investors and
overseeing Tower 26’s revenues and paying its expenses. (FAC, ¶ 58.) The FAC
alleges that Defendant breached his fiduciary duty by not acting in the best
interest of the other investors when he engaged in illegal marijuana
transactions and moved money that was invested by Plaintiffs and intended for
company expenses into his own account for his own personal benefit. (FAC, ¶
61.) 
 
The FAC further states that Defendant also breached
his fiduciary duty when he misrepresented the ownership stakes in Tower 26 as
part of a scheme to intentionally deceive Plaintiffs.
(FAC, ¶ 62.) Lastly, the FAC alleges that Defendant’s breach of fiduciary duty
resulted in at least $1,500,000 million dollars in damages plus interest,
costs, and lost businesses. (FAC, ¶ 65.) The FAC alleges that this amount
includes the Plaintiffs’ loss of income. (FAC, ¶ 65.)
 
Defendant asserts that the Plaintiffs lack any standing to
pursue a claim for breach of fiduciary duty by arguing that the alleged damages
were suffered by Tower 26, not the individual Plaintiffs. Defendant cites to Schrage
v. Schrage (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, 149, 284 for the proposition
that “where a cause of action seeks to recover for harms to the
corporation, the shareholders have no direct cause of action.” Defendant
asserts that because Tower 26 did not have shareholders, Defendant did not owe
a fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs as investors and instead only owed a fiduciary
duty to Tower 26 as its financial controller. 
 
The FAC
sufficiently alleges that Defendant owed a duty by way of the Joint Venture
Agreement because as the financial controller for 26, Defendant was duty bound
“to act with the utmost care and good faith in the best interests of the
investors.” (FAC, ¶¶ 58, 59.) “Examples of relationships that impose a
fiduciary obligation to act on behalf of and for the benefit of another are ‘a
joint venture, a partnership, or an agency.’ [Citation.]” (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1339.) 
 
However, the
first cause of action fails because as explained below, Plaintiff fails to
allege the existence of a Joint Venture Agreement with Defendant. Thus, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. 
 
ii.              
Statute
of Limitations For Breach of Fiduciary Duty Claim
 
Defendant also asserts that this cause of action is barred
by the statute of limitations because this action was filed in October 2022,
which is over three years after the time Plaintiff Camacho stopped receiving
any profits or distributions from Tower 26. Defendant argues that the fact Mr.
Camacho had not seen any return after the fall of 2017 suggests that he knew or
should have known about any breach of fiduciary duty at this time. 
 
“When a complaint shows on its face
that an action is barred by the statute of limitations, the use
of the demurrer to dispose of that action without additional trial
court, attorney, or litigant time and effort is an efficient, appropriate, and
well-accepted procedure.” (Barton v. New United Motor Manufacturing,
Inc.(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1210.) “It is well settled that
“[i]n assessing the sufficiency of a complaint against a general demurrer, we
must treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded.
[Citations.]” (Glaire v. La Lanne-Paris Health Spa,
Inc. (1974) 12
Cal.3d 915, 918.) “
‘[A] demurrer on the ground of
the bar of the statute of limitations does not lie where the complaint merely
shows that the action may have been barred. It must appear affirmatively
that, upon the facts stated, the right of action is necessarily barred.’
[Citations.]” (Baright v. Willis (1984) 151 Cal. App.3d 303, 311.)
 
Here,
Defendant’s argument is based on a mere speculation that Plaintiff Camacho
should have known about any breach of fiduciary duties in 2017 because he was
not receiving any profits or distribution. The facts of the FAC do not
sufficiently show that Mr. Camacho had actual nor constructive knowledge of the
breach of fiduciary duty in 2017. The FAC sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff
Camacho did not learn about Defendant’s conduct until March 2020 when he
received a call from a compliance officer requesting authorization for the sale
of marijuana to a grower. (FAC, ¶ 39.) However, the FAC is devoid of any facts
as to when Plaintiffs Saada and Cohen first learned of Defenant’s breach of
fiduciary duty. The FAC fails to allege any facts showing that Plaintiffs Saada
and Cohen learned of Defendants’ conduct before the three-year statute of limitations.
(See American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1479 [“The statute of
limitations for breach of fiduciary duty is three years or four years,
depending on whether the breach is fraudulent or nonfraudulent.”].)  “A
complaint must set forth the facts with sufficient precision to put the
defendant on notice about what the plaintiff is complaining and what remedies
are being sought.”  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399,
415.)  
 
For the reasons
outlined above, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of
fiduciary duty is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
C.        Second Cause of Action – Fraud  
 
 “The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general
and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”¿(Id. at p. 645.) Specificity
“necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Id. at p. 631.)
 
The FAC alleges that Defendant made
multiple misrepresentations to the Plaintiffs, including his business
experience, industry experience, and use of Plaintiff’s investment funds, that
he knew these misrepresentations were false, and that he intended for these
misrepresentations to be relied upon by the Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶ ¶ 67(a)-(e), 68.) The FAC further alleges
that Plaintiffs relied upon Defendant’s misrepresentations because they did not
have any experience in the marijuana industry, and they do not live in
California. (FAC, ¶ ¶ 72, 73.)
 
i.      
Specificity
of Fraud Claim
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action is not pled with the requisite specificity. The court disagrees. The FAC
identifies how, when, where, and to whom and by what means the
misrepresentations were made. (FAC, ¶ ¶ 67(a)-(e), 68.) Specifically, the FAC
alleges that Defendant misrepresented that he had over 20 years of experience
cultivating marijuana and that his illegal sales were made to legal
distributors. (FAC, ¶ 67.) 
 
The FAC also
alleges that the Defendant was the one making misrepresentations to the
Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶ 67.) The FAC also alleges that these misrepresentations
were made around July of 2019 when Defendant entered into the Joint Venture
Agreement with Plaintiffs Cohen and Saada. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 47.) The FAC further
alleges that these misrepresentations were also made
at a meeting between Plaintiff Saada and Defendant in mid-2018. (FAC, ¶¶ 28,
29.) The court finds these detailed facts sufficient for pleading a claim for
fraud. 
 
ii.              
Justifiable
Reliance
 
Defendant also asserts that the FAC does not sufficiently
plead the element of justifiable reliance because the fact that Tower 26 was a
Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation, devoid of any shareholders, was public
knowledge that Plaintiffs should have known, and they should not have relied
upon Defendant’s misrepresentations. Plaintiff’s opposition argues that the FAC
alleges that the Plaintiffs relied upon this information because of their lack
of experience in the marijuana industry and because they were not in
California. (FAC, ¶ ¶ 72, 73.) The court takes these FAC allegations as true.
At the demurrer stage, it is not for the court to determine whether the
Plaintiff’s should have known that a Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Corporation has
no shareholders in spite of Defendant’s representations that they were
purchasing shares in Tower 26. (FAC, ¶¶, 30, 
31.) The question of justifiable reliance presents a triable issue of
fact that is not subject to adjudication at the demurrer stage. (See Fuhrman
v. California Satellite Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, 422.)
 
iii.       Statute of Limitations for Fraud Claim
 
Defendant again
contends that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred by the three year statute of
limitations. Defendant argues that filing of this action on October 3, 2022,
filing is untimely because the FAC alleges that Defendant made factual
misrepresentations to Plaintiff P. Saada in mid-2018 leading to the Joint
Venture Agreement in July of 2019. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs should have
investigated Tower 26 prior to October 2019 because they had already entered
into the Joint Venture Agreement at this time. 
 
The
FAC alleges that marijuana was not
cultivated until the Fall of 2019 and the first improper conduct brought a
Plaintiff’s attention was in March 2020 when Plaintiff Camacho received a call
related to the authorization of a sale. (FAC, ¶ 39.) At the demurrer stage, the
court reads these allegations as true and finds that the FAC does not
necessarily show that fraudulent behavior was known to Plaintiff Camacho prior
to October 2019. However, the FAC is devoid of any facts as to when Plaintiffs
Saada and Cohen first learned of Defenant’s fraudulent conduct. There are no
allegations in the FAC stating that Saada and Cohen learned of Defenant’s
fraudulent conduct at the same time that Plaintiff Camacho did. 
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer as to the second cause of
action for fraud is sustained with leave to amend.   
 
D.        Third Cause of Action – Conversion  
 
To plead a cause of action for
conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.) “Money may be the subject of conversion if the claim involves a
specific, identifiable sum . . . .” (WelcoElectronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.) As the Court of Appeal has explained, “money
can only be treated as specific property subject to being converted when it is
‘identified as a specific thing.’” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395 ;
see also id. at p. 396 [“California cases permitting an action for
conversion of money typically involve those who have misappropriated,
commingled, or misapplied specific funds held for the benefit of others.”].)
 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs
owned and had the right of possession to the marijuana flower cultivated in the
Bradley White Warehouse. (FAC, ¶
¶ 80, 81.) The FAC also alleges that Defendant interfered with Plaintiffs right
of possession by selling the marijuana flowers to distributors in both illegal
and legal transactions while keeping all the profits for his personal benefit.
(FAC, ¶ 83.) Additionally, the FAC alleges that “Mr. Prevost commandeered and
misappropriated approximately $1,120,000 of Tower 26’s funds and investor money
that had been directed to the company, by stealing it and directing it to
accounts that he directly controlled.” FAC, ¶ 85.)
 
i.                
Plaintiffs’ Standing to Bring Claim for
Conversion
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs Camacho,
Saada, and Cohen lack proper standing to bring a claim for conversion because
they do not have an individual right of possession to the marijuana flowers
that were owned by Tower 26. Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs failed to
establish any immediate right of possession over the marijuana flowers and that
Plaintiffs only alleged that they acquired an interest in Tower 26 that would
entitle them to a share of the company’s profits. The court agrees that Plaintiffs
did not sufficiently allege how their interest in Tower 26 gave them an
immediate right of possession over the marijuana flowers. 
 
The
FAC also alleges that Defendant “commandeered and misappropriated” Plaintiffs’
individual investment funds, which was approximately $1,120,000, by diverting
it out of Tower 26 and into accounts that he directly controlled. (FAC, ¶ 85.)
On one hand, if the Plaintiffs were actually shareholders, this suit would need
to be brought as a derivative suit on behalf of the Tower 26 because the FAC
alleges that investment funds were diverted out of the Tower 26 accounts before
being directed into Defendant’s accounts. (FAC, ¶ 85.) On the other hand,
Plaintiffs were not given any shares in exchange for their investment because
Tower 26 was established as a Nonprofit Mutual Benefit Fund. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Thus,
Plaintiffs retained their individual right of possession to the money they
invested since they never received any shares. 
 
The court
finds that the conversion claim fails because Plaintiffs fail to allege how they
obtained ownership of the warehouse where the marijuana plant was cultivated
and why the warehouse did not belong to Defendant or Tower 26. Moreover, a
possessory right in the marijuana flower gives rise to a claim for trespass to
chattels not conversion since it does not involve a specific sum. To the extent
that Plaintiffs seek to allege that Defendant converted Plaintiffs’ investment
funds, such facts need to be alleged in the FAC. 
 
ii.              
Statute of Limitations for Conversion Claim
 
Defendant
again asserts that Plaintiffs’ conversion claim is barred by the three-year
statute of limitations by arguing that some or all of the alleged conversions
occurred prior to the fall of 2017. Defendant contends that the FAC alleges
that Plaintiffs did not receive any
return following 2017 so all or some of the conversions must have happened
before then. The FAC alleges that marijuana cultivation began in the Fall of
2019 and that Plaintiff Camacho did not uncover Defendant’s conduct until March
2020. (FAC, ¶¶ 39, 40.) However, the FAC is devoid of any facts as to when
Plaintiffs Saada and Cohen discovered Defenant’s conversion of their property. 
Based
on the above, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of
action for Conversion is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
E.        Fourth Cause of Action – Unjust
Enrichment
 
“[T]here
is no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment. The phrase ‘Unjust
Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of recovery, but an effect: the result
of a failure to make restitution under circumstances where it is equitable to
do so. [Citation] Unjust enrichment is ‘a general principle, underlying various
legal doctrines and remedies, rather than a remedy itself.’ [Citation.] It
is synonymous with restitution. (Melchior v. New Line Cinema
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [internal quotations omitted].) While there is
no cause of action in California labeled “unjust enrichment”, an unjust
enrichment claim can be made and the remedy is grounded in equitable principles
of restitution. (See Sepanossian v. National Ready Mix Company, Inc.
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 192.) 
 
“‘As
a matter of law, an unjust enrichment claim does not lie where the parties have
an enforceable express contract.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.) But “restitution
may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages when the parties had an
express contract, but it was procured by fraud or is unenforceable or
ineffective for some reason. [Citations.] Alternatively, restitution may be
awarded where the defendant obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud,
duress, conversion, or similar conduct. In such cases, the plaintiff may choose
not to sue in tort, but instead to seek restitution on a quasi-contract theory....
[Citations.] In such cases, where appropriate, the law will imply a contract
(or rather, a quasi-contract), without regard to the parties' intent, in order
to avoid unjust enrichment.’ ” (Id. at p. 1370.)


Defendant contends that
Plaintiff’s claim for unjust enrichment is barred by the applicable three-year
statute of limitations because the Plaintiffs should have known about the
fraudulent behavior in Fall of 2017. Whether Plaintiffs should have learned
about Defendant’s conduct in the Fall of 2017 remains a disputed fact. The FAC
states that Plaintiff Camacho did not have reason to know about Defendant’s
conduct until March 2020. (FAC, ¶39.) However, the FAC does not appear to
allege a clear timeline for when the fraudulent behavior was made known to the other
Plaintiffs. Thus,
the FAC fails to plead facts to show that the fourth cause of action is not
barred by the statute of limitations and fails to provide facts  a way that "gives notice of the issues
sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.” (Okun v. Superior Court
(1981) 29 Cal.3d 442, 458.) Plaintiffs need to plead such facts as are
necessary to acquaint Defendants with the nature, source, and extent of their
claims. (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
549-550.)
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth
cause of action for unjust enrichment is overruled.
 
F.        Fifth Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract            
 
To plead a cause of action for
breach of contract, one must allege (1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Oasis West Realty, LLC v
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821) Additionally, the plaintiff must prove
that damages were proximately caused by the defendant’s breach. (St. Paul
Ins. v. American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.)
 
“If the action is based on alleged
breach of written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of
the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 308.) Alternatively, “a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”¿ (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)¿¿“[A]ll essential elements of a breach of contract cause of action []
must be pleaded with specificity.”¿(Levy v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.) 
 
“It is
settled law that a pleading must allege facts and not conclusions, and that
material facts must be alleged directly and not by way of recital.” (Ankeny
v. Lockheed Missiles and Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531,
537.) Conclusory allegations,
without facts to support them, are ambiguous and uncertain. (Ibid.)
“These conclusionary allegations, which allege no specific acts, are insufficient
to survive demurrer.” (Bagatti v. Department of Rehabilitation (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 344, 366, fn. 8.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967)
67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs
Camacho and Saada cannot satisfy the first and fourth elements of a breach of
contract claim because they were not parties to the Joint Venture Agreement and
thus did not suffer any damages caused from its breach. On the other hand,
Plaintiffs’ opposition argues that the FAC sufficiently alleges the existence
of a contract between all Plaintiffs and Defendant. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 58.) 
 
The allegation that all Plaintiffs
had a contract with Defendant is conclusory because the FAC fails to attach
evidence of an agreement that includes Plaintiffs Camacho and Saada as parties.
(See FAC, Ex. 1.) Moreover, the Joint Venture Agreement attached as Exhibit 1
is not signed by Plaintiff Cohen and the Joint Venture Agreement states that
the Agreement is between Defendant and “Stylehouse 26 Corporation, a  New Jersey Corporation.” (FAC, Ex. 1.) No allegations
in the FAC show that Plaintiffs are the owners of “Stylehouse 26 Corporation”
or describe their relationship with “Stylehouse 26 Corporation.” In sum, the
FAC fails to show that Plaintiffs had a written agreement with the Defendant. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action for breach of contract is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave
to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for _, at 8:30 a.m.
Defendant to give notice.


