  Case Number:  21STCV21933    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA ELIZALDE,
  on behalf of herself and all others similarly situated, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BMS HEALTHCARE, INC., a California
  corporation and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV21933
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFF MARIA ELIZALDE’S MOTION FOR
  APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT
 
Date: February 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Maria Elizalde (“Plaintiff Elizalde”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.

 
BACKGROUND
This
is a class action arising from alleged wage and hour violations under the
California Labor Code. Plaintiff Elizalde filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. for civil penalties
under California Labor Code Sections 2698 et seq, the Private Attorneys
General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”). 
 
The
Court granted Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff Elizalde’s individual PAGA claims and stay the proceedings. 
 
Plaintiff
Elizalde filed the instant motion for approval of PAGA settlement, attorneys’
fees, enhancement award, and reimbursement of litigation costs. No opposition
has been filed.             
 
DISCUSSION
            Under California Labor Code, Section
2699, subdivision (l)(2), “[t]he superior court shall review and approve any
settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this part. The proposed
settlement shall be submitted to the agency at the same time that it is
submitted to the court.” (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l)(2).)
 
            In Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc.
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 56, the court held “a trial court should evaluate a PAGA
settlement to determine whether it is fair, reasonable, and adequate in view of
PAGA's purposes to remediate present labor law violations, deter future ones,
and to maximize enforcement of state labor laws.” (Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc.
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 56, 77.)
 
PAGA Settlement
            Plaintiff Elizalde
argues the proposed Settlement of $165,000.00 to be paid by Defendant BMS
Healthcare, Inc. on behalf of the aggrieved employees is reasonably and fairly
advances each of the PAGA purposes. (Setareh Decl., ¶ 26, Ex. 1.) As such,
Plaintiff Elizalde contends this Court should approve the Settlement. 
            


 
The
Settlement Falls Within the Range of Possible Approval
“The
PAGA is limited to the recovery of civil penalties.” (Villacres v. ABM
Industries Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 562, 579.) “Under the PAGA, the
civil penalty for an initial violation is $100 per employee per pay period, and
the penalty for each subsequent violation is $200 per employee per pay period.”
(Villacres, supra, 189 Cal.App.4th at 580.)
 
Plaintiff
Elizalde contends there were approximately 276 aggrieved employees during the
PAGA period and based on the data provided by Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc.,
there were approximately 5,400 pay periods from June 10, 2020 through April 21,
2023. (Settlement, ¶¶ 4.1, 8; Setareh Decl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff Elizalde further
contends the estimated potential recovery she believed she could reasonably
achieve for all aggrieved employees if she was to prevail on all her causes of
action total $1,975,600.00. Thus, Plaintiff Elizalde argues a gross settlement
amount (“GSA”) of $165,000.00 or 8.35 percent of the potential maximum
penalties is more than fair and adequate. Plaintiff Elizalde also argues the
Settlement confers substantial benefit on aggrieved employees because of the
risk of continued litigation as it relates to liability, discretionary
penalties, and all the defenses asserted by Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. 
 
The
Settlement Achieves Compliance With and Deters Violations of State Labor Laws
Plaintiff Elizalde contends that while the parties
dispute whether Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc.’s employment practices violate
the Labor Code, this litigation has achieved compliance with Labor Code
sections referenced in the Settlement due to the significant amount that
Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. has agreed to pay for these alleged violations.
Furthermore, Plaintiff Elizalde asserts the significant amount will serve as a
deterrent to similar violations. 
 


 
The
Settlement Serves to Enlist Private Citizens in Enforcement of PAGA
Plaintiff Elizalde argues the proposed Settlement
acts to encourage private enforcement of PAGA. Specifically, Plaintiff Elizalde
contends she may receive a modest incentive payment, her counsel will receive
attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by the Court, and all aggrieved
employees will receive a 25 percent share of the PAGA allocation, as well as
notice of the claim.
 
            The Settlement is “Just” and “In
the Public Interest”
Plaintiff Elizalde asserts this Settlement
reasonably values the PAGA claims as to Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc.
Plaintiff Elizalde further asserts Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. is paying an
average of $597.83 ($165,000.00 ÷ 276) per aggrieved employee. Additionally,
Plaintiff Elizalde contends if the Court grants her application for fees,
costs, and incentive payments, the State and the aggrieved employees will still
share approximately $322.35 ($88,968.85 ÷ 276) per aggrieved employee for civil
penalties. Moreover, Plaintiff Elizalde argues the proposed Settlement, even
with deductions, provides a substantial sum to the States, i.e., $66,726.64
($88,968.85 x 75%). Plaintiff Elizalde also argues it provides a sum to each
employee averaging $80.59 on a pro rata basis ($88,968.85 x 25% = $22,242.21 ÷
276 Aggrieved Employees). Similarly, Plaintiff Elizalde contends the notice of
settlement to the aggrieved employees will educate them as to the requirements
of the Labor Code, which is in the public interest and consistent with PAGA’s
purpose. California Labor Code, Section 2699, subdivision (j). Likewise, Plaintiff Elizalde argues
public policy strongly favors the settlement of litigation. Furthermore,
Plaintiff Elizalde contends the proposed method of distribution is fair and
reasonable because each aggrieved employee’s actual potential penalties varies
proportionally based on his or her pay periods worked during the PAGA period.
Lastly, Plaintiff Elizalde argues the Settlement was submitted to California
Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LDWA”) on February 6, 2024 and they
have not objected to the Settlement or made any comment about it.  
Attorneys’ Fees
Plaintiff Elizalde argues the Settlement requires
that attorneys’ fees, costs, and incentive payment be paid from the common
fund. Plaintiff Elizalde contends her counsel request attorneys’ fees of
$55,000.00 (1/3 of the GSA) and their actual costs are currently $6,781.15,
which are well within the range of reasonableness. First, Plaintiff Elizalde
asserts that she and the aggrieved employees, as prevailing party plaintiffs in
settlement, are entitled to recover their attorneys’ fees and costs for their
wage claims, and the associated interest and penalties. (Lab. Code, §§ 218.5,
226(e), 1194, 2699(g); Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.5(a); Earley v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1420.) Second, Plaintiff Elizalde asserts that the
proposed Settlement consists of a substantial recovery considering that some
wage and hour class action settlement result in class members receiving coupons
or vouchers in much smaller amounts instead of cash payments. Next, Plaintiff
Elizalde argues that despite the extent of risk involved in this case, her
counsel skillfully navigated through it and negotiated a favorable result for
the aggrieved employees and the State of California. Moreover, Plaintiff
Elizalde contends her counsel’s previous experience in litigating wage and hour
class actions against Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc.’s counsel with experience
in labor and employment litigation supports the fairness and reasonableness of
the requested fee award.  
 
Plaintiff Elizalde argues that the requested
attorneys’ fees are also justified by the Lodestar Method because (1) counsel
have already logged a combined total of $139.6 hours in billable time at their
current standard hourly rate, resulting in a lodestar of $77,582.50 and
multiplier of approximately 0.71; (2) the hours billed represent time spent on
tasks that were essential to litigation and settlement; and (3) the standard
hourly rates for Plaintiff Elizalde’s counsel ranging from $375.00 to $925.00
are reasonable. (Setareh Decl., ¶ 33.) Also, Plaintiff Elizalde contends her
counsel’s requested attorneys’ fees are much lower than the value of the actual
work performed. Finally, Plaintiff Elizalde contends the request for her
counsel’s actual litigation costs of $6,781.15 in filing fees, courier costs,
process server costs, and mediation fees, is fair and reasonable because they
were documented and reasonably incurred. (Id. at ¶ 28. )
 
Enhancement Award 
Plaintiff
Elizalde argues the proposed enhancement award to her is also fair, adequate,
and reasonable. Plaintiff Elizalde
further argues the Settlement provides that she may seek an enhancement award
of up to $10,000.00, which is just over 6 percent of the GSA. (Settlement, ¶
3.2.3; Setareh Decl., ¶ 37.) Moreover, Plaintiff Elizalde contends her efforts
in retaining experienced counsel, providing her counsel with extensive
information about her work history with Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. and
Defendant’s policies and practices with respect to the wage and hour claims at
issue, foregoing pursuit of her individual claims in favor of a fair
resolution, participating in mediation sessions, and being actively involved in
the settlement process justified the enhancement award. In addition, Plaintiff
Elizalde asserts her fiduciary responsibility as the representative, risks she
undertook , the fact her share of the GSA will likely be less than absent
aggrieved employees, risks of impairment to her job prospects, low individual
burden on each aggrieved employee, her counsel’s dependence on her, and public
policy also justify the enhancement award. 
 
Here,
Defendant BMS Healthcare, Inc. agrees to pay the GSA of $165,000.00, which
includes Individual PAGA payments, the LWDA PAGA payment, PAGA counsel fees
payment, PAGA counsel litigation expenses payment, the Administrator’s expenses
payment, and the Representative Enhancement payment. (Settlement, ¶ 1.10.) Furthermore,
approximately $88,968.85 will be available for distribution to the aggrieved
employees and LWDA. Specifically, the LWDA will receive about $66,726.64 (75
percent) and the aggrieved employee will receive around $22,242.21 (25 percent)
of the GSA. 
 
            The Court finds that the proposed
Settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable in the view of PAGA’s overall
purpose. The GSA is far less than the estimated potential recovery amount had
this case proceeded to trial, which suggests it shall deter future labor
violations. Furthermore, the GSA is enough to remediate the LWDA and aggrieved
employees. Likewise, the GSA would encourage others to bring PAGA claims for
similar Labor Code violations to further enforce such rights. Also, the
requested attorneys’ fees and costs are reasonable in light of the amount of
worked actually performed in this case, Plaintiff Elizalde counsel’s experience
in these types of matters, and the favorable result rendered in this matter.
Moreover, Plaintiff Elizalde is
permitted under the proposed Settlement to receive an enhancement award that is
a small percentage of the GSA and Plaintiff Elizalde has shown that she has
expended substantial time and effort in bringing about this legal action, as
well as getting a favorable result. Last, this motion is unopposed and the LWDA
has not objected to its approval, despite having notice of the proposed
Settlement. 
            
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Maria Elizalde’s motion for approval of PAGA settlement,
attorneys’ fees, enhancement award, and reimbursement of litigation costs. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



