 Case Number:  22STCV12986    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RYAN HALL, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware Limited
  Liability; M.K. SMITH CHEVROLET, a California Corporation; and DOES 1 through
  40, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV01986
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S MOTION TO
  TAX COSTS
 
Date: February 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
General Motors LLC (“Defendant GM”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Ryan Hall (“Plaintiff Hall”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is a lemon law action arising from Plaintiff
Hall’s purchase of a 2020 Chevrolet Silverado from Defendant M.K. Smith
Chevrolet. Plaintiff Hall filed a Complaint against Defendant GM, M.K. Smith
Chevrolet, and DOES 1 through 40, alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Section
1793.2; and (4) Negligent Repair.  
 
            Defendant GM filed this instant
motion to tax costs. Plaintiff Hall filed an opposition. Defendant GM filed a
reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Under the Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1032, subdivision (4), “[i]f any party recovers other than monetary
relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing party” shall
be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its
discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between
the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under
Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (4).)
 
Motion to Tax Costs
            Defendant GM moves to strike or tax
costs requested in the memorandum of costs of Plaintiff Hall’s Counsel Writz
Law APC (“Counsel”). Specifically, Counsel seeks $6,731.29 in costs for this
case matter, as to which Defendant GM contends Counsel presents no evidence in
support other than the memorandum of costs itself. Defendant GM further argues
that Counsel has actually sought $6,296.29 in costs that are unreasonable and
unnecessary. 
 
            As to Item 1, Defendant GM contends
Counsel improperly seeks $246.60 for filing and motion fees for three motion to
compel deposition attendance and one motion for attorney fees. Defendant GM
asserts the discovery motions were taken off the Court’s calendar. As such,
Defendant GM argues it should not be billed for unnecessary motions that never
came on for hearing. Defendant GM further argues Plaintiff Hall has not yet
filed a motion for attorney fees and should not be awarded costs for a motion
that has not even been filed. Moreover, Defendant GM contends Plaintiff Hall’s
motion costs were optional costs that Plaintiff Hall elected, where the notice
was entirely one-sided. 
 
            As to Item 2, Defendant GM also
argues Counsel improperly seeks $150.00 for jury fees because this case never
went to trial. 
 
            As to Items 4 and 5, Defendant GM
further argues Counsel improperly seeks $455.02 for service of process costs
and $3,429.20 in deposition costs for the depositions of M.K. smith
technicians, service advisor and person most qualified. Specifically, Defendant
GM contends these depositions were never taken. Also, Defendant GM contends the
dealerships are non-parties with their own counsel and are not controlled by
Defendant GM. Lastly, Defendant GM argues none of this work by Counsel advanced
Plaintiff’s case and benefitted only Counsel. 
 
            As to Item 11, Defendant GM contends
it should not be required to pay $625.00 in costs for court reporter fees for
Plaintiff Hall’s motion for attorney fees and motion for costs. Defendant GM
argues that Counsel still had not filed a motion for attorney fees when the memorandum
of costs was filed.
 
As
to Item 14, Defendant GM argues Counsel improperly seeks $807.18 in fees for
electronic filing because Counsel did not attach a worksheet or any
verification of the alleged costs.
 
As
to Item 16, Defendant GM asserts Counsel improperly seeks $175.20 for courtesy
copies and $408.09 for printer charges, business meals, mileage, legal
research, postage, and mediation. Defendant GM argues courtesy copies are not
required expenses and are unreasonable and excessive. By contrast, Defendant GM
contends Counsel did not attach a worksheet or nay verification for printer
charges, business meals, mileage, legal research, postage, and mediation costs.

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff Hall argues on their face each claimed amount either
falls within the categories of Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1033.5 or was
incurred in this case during its commencement and prosecution. Furthermore,
Plaintiff Hall contends no supporting documentation or further explanation is
required. 
 
As
for Item 1, Plaintiff Hall argues he would not have filed these motions to
compel if Defendant GM would have participated in the discovery process and
provided him with deposition dates after being requested repeatedly, causing
the motions to be necessary. Plaintiff Hall also argues that only after filing
these motions to compel did Defendant GM comply and provide its personnel for
deposition. As such, Plaintiff Hall asserts once Defendant GM complied, the
motions were moot and he withdrew them accordingly. Plaintiff Hall further
alleges the request for reimbursement of the rescheduling fee was inadvertently
left out of his memorandum of costs but he will provide the receipt. (Wirtz
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)
 
As
for Item 2, Plaintiff Hall argues jury fees are mandatory and required to be
paid by the Case Management Conference if a party demands a trial by jury.
Plaintiff further asserts he paid the non-refundable jury fees to reserve his
right and will provide the receipt. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.) Similarly, for
Item 4, Plaintiff Hall contends all of the depositions listed on the memorandum
of costs were taken and necessary to him building his case. Moreover, Plaintiff
Hall argues Defendant M.K. Smith Chevrolet is a party to this case and was
represented by Defendant GM’s counsel. Nonetheless, Plaintiff Hall asserts he
will provide the receipts for these costs. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 3.) As for
Item 5, Plaintiff Hall asserts Defendant GM does not provide any specific
reason why it objects to these costs. In addition, Plaintiff Hall argues he
incurred these costs to serve his Complaint on Defendants GM and M.K. Smith
Chevrolet, which led to multiple attempts of service on M.K. Smith Chevrolet
because their agent of service of process name and address on the Secretary of
State website was incorrect. Plaintiff Hall contends he provides the receipts
for these costs. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4.)
 
As
for Item 11, Plaintiff Hall contends he seeks these costs under California
Civil Code, Section 1794, subdivision (d), which provides, “[i]f the buyer
prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the
court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of
costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.” (Civ. Code, §
1794, subd. (d).) Plaintiff Hall argues he hired a court reporter to transcribe
the motion for attorney fees and if the Court still provided reporters, he
would not have incurred these costs. Plaintiff further argues he will provide
receipt to the Court if available at the time of hearing of this instant
motion. Plaintiff Hall asserts the statement showing that the charges are
pending have been provided. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 5.)
 
As
for Item 14, Plaintiff Hall argues Defendant GM does not provide any specific
reason why it objects to the electronic filing fees. Plaintiff Hall also argues
electronic filing is mandatory by this Court and recoverable under Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 1033.5 and California Civil Code, Section 1794,
subdivision (d). 
 
As
for Item 16 concerning courtesy copies, printer charges, business meals,
mileage, legal research, postage, and mediation, Plaintiff Hall contends he
seeks recovery under California Civil Code, Section 1794, subdivision (d).
Plaintiff Hall further argues the costs and fees were reasonable and necessary
to the prosecution of the action. Specifically, Plaintiff Hall asserts he
incurred costs to send courtesy copies of the Informal Discovery Conference
(“IDC”) Statement, a hard copy of the Request and Responses before the IDC as
requested by Department 56, and his motion for attorney fees as required by the
Los Angeles Superior Court’s (“LASC”) General Order. Additionally, Plaintiff
Hall contends at the time of filing his memorandum of costs, he anticipated the
courtesy copies of the motion for attorney fees to $80.00 but it was actually
$100.00. Thus, Plaintiff Hall requests the remaining costs of $20.00 be
included in the total award of costs. Plaintiff Hall alleges he has provided
receipts for these costs. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 6.)
 
For
the printer charges in the amount of $18.50, Plaintiff Hall contends these
costs were incurred to print documents to serve by mail or bring to events in
the case, such as depositions at $0.25 per page for 74 pages printed in the
entirety of this case. (Opp’n at p. 6, lns. 27-28; Wirtz Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 7.)
 
For
the business meal charges in the amount of $19.24, Plaintiff Hall contends his
counsel incurred costs by purchasing meals while driving to and from, and
attending the vehicle surrender. Plaintiff Hall contends he has provided the
receipts for these costs. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 8.) Likewise, for the mileage
charges in the amount of $142.79, Plaintiff Hall contends his counsel incurred
these costs while driving to and from San Diego to Riverside Chevrolet to
attend the vehicle surrender. (Wirtz Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 9.) Furthermore, as for
the legal research costs, Plaintiff Hall argues his counsel is billed monthly
for Westlaw and incurred $26.93 performing research for the prosecution of this
case. (Id. at ¶ 13, Ex. 10.) In addition, as for the postage fee in the
amount of $0.63, Plaintiff Hall asserts his counsel served the Notice of
Settlement by mail on August 31, 2023, which was necessary and reasonable to
the prosecution of this case. (Id. at ¶ 14, Ex. 11.)  Finally, as for the mediation fee in the amount
of $200.00, Plaintiff Hall argues the mediation laid the groundwork for which
the parties used to eventually come to a settlement agreement. (Id. at ¶
15, Ex. 12.) 
 
The
Court finds that the filing and motion fees, jury fees, deposition costs, court
reporter fees as established by statute, and fees for electronic filing are
allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1033.5, subdivision (a).
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1033.5, subd. (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(11), (a)(14).)
Furthermore, other items are also allowable costs under Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(16) where it is required to be
awarded to the prevailing party pursuant to statute as an incident to prevailing
in the action at trial or on appeal. The Court also notes that the motion for
attorney fees was filed and granted on January 29, 2024. Next, California Civil
Code, Section 1794, subdivision (d) allows recovery of the court reporter fees,
courtesy copies, printer charges, business meals, mileage, legal research,
postage, and mediation. In Smalley v. Subaru of America, Inc. (2022), 87
Cal.App.5th 450, the court held “[i]n a claim under the Song-Beverly Act, a
prevailing plaintiff is entitled to recover costs and expenses (Civ. Code, §
1794, subd. (d)); for purposes of that statute, expenses encompasses
out-of-pocket expenses beyond the costs identified in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5.” (Smalley v. Subaru of America, Inc. (2022), 87
Cal.App.5th 450, 457 [citation omitted].) Therefore, the costs and fees sought
by Plaintiff Hall were reasonable and necessary for the prosecution of this
matter. Moreover, as the prevailing party in this case, Plaintiff Hall is
entitled to recover the requested costs and fees under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1033.5, subdivision (a) and California Civil Code, Section 1794,
subdivision (d). Lastly, Plaintiff Hall has submitted documentation in the form
of receipts to substantiate the amount in costs claimed in the memorandum of
costs. 
 
The
Court DENIES Defendant General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike or Tax Costs. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



