 Case Number:  23PSCV02889    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Daimler Truck Financial Services USA LLC’s Application
for a Writ of Possession against Defendant Little Fat Trucking
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
Plaintiff Daimler Truck Financial Services USA LLC’s
Application for a Writ of Possession against Defendant Xing Wang
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Daimler Truck Financial Services USA LLC’s
Application for a Writ of Possession against Defendant Little Fat Trucking is
GRANTED.
Plaintiff Daimler Truck Financial Services USA LLC’s Application
for a Writ of Possession against Defendant Xing Wang is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from an equipment financing agreement.
In September 2021, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services USA LLC (Mercedes-Benz)
entered into a written equipment financing agreement with Defendant Little Fat
Trucking in which Mercedez-Benz agreed to provide financing for the purchase of
two 2022 Freightliners from Los Angeles Truck Centers, LLC. In support of the
agreement, Defendant Xing Wang executed a personal guaranty. In November 2021,
Mercedes-Benz sold its interest in the financing agreement to Plaintiff Daimler
Truck Financial Services USA LLC (Daimler). While Little Fat Trucking paid off
the full balance for one of the Freightliners in March 2022, Little Fat
Trucking allegedly defaulted on payments for the other Freightliner in October
2022.
On September
19, 2023, Daimler filed a complaint against Little Fat Trucking, Wang, and Does
1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of guaranty, (3) common counts, (4) claim and delivery, and (5)
conversion.
On
February 9, 2024, Daimler filed the present applications. On March 4, 2024, Daimler’s
process server served Little Fat Trucking and Wang with notice of these
applications through substitute service in Diamond Bar.
A
hearing on Daimler’s applications is set for June 11, 2024, along with a case
management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service.
ANALYSIS
Daimler
moves for writs of possession against Little Fat Trucking and Wang with regards
to a 2022 Freightliner. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Daimler’s applications.
Legal Standard
“California’s
claim and delivery law (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 511.010-516.050) authorizes the
issuance of a prejudgment writ of possession for specific personal property.” (Sea
Rail Truckloads, Inc. v. Pullman, Inc. (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 511, 514.)
“Except as otherwise provided this section, no writ shall be issued under this
chapter except after a hearing on a noticed motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
512.020, subd. (a).) Prior to the hearing, Plaintiff must serve Defendants
serve with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint, (2) a notice of application
and hearing, and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support
thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030, subd. (a).)
The
application for writ of possession must be executed under oath and include (1)
a “showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed” as well as a copy of the
written instrument if the basis of the claim is a written instrument, (2) a
“showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant,” (3) a
showing of “the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property,” (4) a showing of “the reason for the detention,” (5) a particular
description of the property and its value, (6) a statement of the location of
the property, including a showing that there is probable cause to believe the
property is located there if alleged to be within a private place, and (7) a “statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine” or “seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff[.]” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 512.010, subd. (b).)
Furthermore,
Code of Civil Procedure section 512.060 provides that a writ of possession
shall issue if the plaintiff meets the undertaking requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 515.010 and establishes the probable validity of their
claim to possession of the property. Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010
requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking of at least “twice the value of
the defendant’s interest in the property” with the court before the court
issues any writ of possession, unless the court finds defendants have “no
interest in the property.” “No writ directing the levying officer to enter a
private place to take possession of any property shall be issued unless the
plaintiff has established that there is probable cause to believe that the
property is located there.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.060, subd. (b).)
Discussion
In
this case, Daimler moves for writs of possession for a 2022 Freightliner described
as follows:
“2022 Freightliner PT126SLP, Tractor Serial No.
3AKJHHDR5NSNB9600.”
The
Court finds Daimler has followed the statutory requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure sections 512.030 and 512.010. Pursuant to the retail installment
sales agreement at issue in this action, Daimler may repossess the Freightliner
at issue if Little Fat Trucking or Wang defaults on payments. (Guerrero Decl.,
Ex. 1, ¶ 8.) Little Fat Trucking and Wang have failed to oppose these applications
or timely appear in this action. Because Daimler has shown a right to immediate
possession of the Freightliner at issue and because subject vehicle remains in the
possession of Little Fat Trucking and/or Wang, Daimler’s undertaking
requirement is waived.  The¿undertaking
required by Little Fat Trucking and Wang for redelivery or to stay execution of
the writs shall be $112,700.00. (Daimler’s valuation of the property - Guerrero
Decl., ¶ 26.) (See Code Civ. Proc., § 515.020.)
Accordingly,
Daimler’s applications for writs of possession are GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Daimler’s
applications for writs of possession against Little Fat Trucking and Wang are GRANTED.