  Case Number:  23PSCV00561    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Satish Mahajan’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Humble Retailers, Inc. and
Satish Mahajan
 
Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Humble Retailers, Inc.’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Humble Retailers, Inc. and
Satish Mahajan
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrers to Satish Mahajan’s First Amended Cross-Complaint and Humble Retailers, Inc.’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Cross-Complainants’ counsel regarding the Demurrers and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrers.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud action. In early 2022,
Defendants Humble Retailers, Inc. (Humble Retailers), Satish Mahajan, Deepak
Gosain, Narayan Singh, Mennu Mahajan, and Nikki Sachdeva sought to sell their
liquor store in Azusa to Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal. After
Defendants allegedly promised Thakkar and Mittal a turnkey business and failed
to disclose the material risks, Thakkar and Mittal signed a business purchase
contract on August 30, 2022, and agreed to purchase the liquor store for $375,000.
They then made a $55,000 down payment prior to the opening of escrow.
 
Subsequently, when Thakkar and Mittal inspected the liquor
store, they found twenty-two different issues that they communicated to
Defendants including a defective walk-in cooler, a defective air conditioning
system, defective exhaust and ventilation systems, an inadequate electrical
load, fire safety violations, food safety violations, dilapidated building
conditions, obscured security cameras, and pest infestations. Thakkar and
Mittal allege Defendants also failed to transfer the liquor store’s ABC license,
commercial lease, or business title. While Thakkar and Mittal did not take
possession of the business, Defendants allegedly refused to return their down
payments.
 
On February 27, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a complaint
against Defendants and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
fraud in the inducement, (2) conversion, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4)
negligent misrepresentation, and (5) breach of contract. On July 19, 2023, the Court
sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by Humble Retailers with leave to amend.
The Court also struck a demurrer by Mennu Mahajan and overruled a demurrer by
Satish Mahajan.
 
On August 8, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On November 28, 2023, the Court overruled demurrers by Mennu Mahajan, Satish
Mahajan, and Humble Retailers.
 
On December 18, 2023, Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan
filed a cross-complaint against Thakkar, Mittal, and Roes 1-25, alleging (1)
breach of contract, (2) conversion, (3) specific performance, and (4)
declaratory relief. On March 21, 2024, the Court
sustained a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint by Thakkar and Mittal with leave to
amend.
 
On
April 11, 2024, Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (FACC) against the same cross-defendants alleging the same
causes of action.
 
On May 14, 2024, Thakkar and Mittal filed the present
demurrers. A hearing on the demurrer to the FACC as to Satish
Mahajan is set for June 11, 2024, while a hearing on the demurrer to the FACC
as to Humble Retailers is set for June 12, 2024. A case management conference
is also set for June 11, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Thakkar and Mittal demur to Satish Mahajan’s second cause of action
for conversion and the entire FACC as to Humble Retailers. For the following reasons, the Court finds parties did
not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Thakkar and Mittal’s counsel stated counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending an
email to Satish Mahajan and Humble Retailers’ counsel on April 29, 2024, that
requested a telephonic meet and confer conference. (Feazell Decl., ¶ 7.)
Because email communications are not code-compliant means of meeting and
conferring and it does not appear Thakkar and
Mittal’s counsel ever attempted to contact opposing
counsel via phone, the Court finds Thakkar and
Mittal have failed to adequately meet and confer. Thus,
a continuance of the hearings on their demurrers is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrers are CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Thakkar and Mittal’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Satish
Mahajan and Humble Retailers’ counsel
regarding the demurrers and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing on the demurrers.