 Case Number:  23PSCV01334    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Diamond City Shopping Center, LLC and
Bently Real Estate LLC’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment and
Stay Execution Thereon
Respondent: Plaintiff MMA
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Diamond City Shopping Center, LLC and
Bently Real Estate LLC’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment and
Stay Execution Thereon is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from an architectural services
agreement. In July 2020, Plaintiff MMA and Defendant Bently Real Estate LLC
(Bently) entered into an agreement in which MMA agreed to provide architectural
services to Bently for the development of a commercial property in West Covina.
Subsequently, MMA alleges Bently began to fall behind on payments for MMA’s
services. In January 2023, MMA terminated the agreement as a result of Bently’s
alleged failure to make payments. On February 1, 2023, MMA recorded a
mechanic’s lien against the West Covina property which is allegedly owned by
Defendant Diamond City Shopping Center, LLC (Diamond City).
On
May 2, 2023, MMA filed a complaint against Diamond City, Bently, and Does 1-10,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2)
foreclosure of mechanic’s lien on real property, and (3) promissory estoppel.
On September 5, MMA’s process server served Diamond City and Bently with
substitute service in West Covina.
On
October 19, 2023, the Court entered default against Diamond City and Bently
after they failed to file a timely answer. On November 6, 2023, Diamond City
and Bently filed an answer. On December 5, 2023, the Court granted default
judgment for MMA against Diamond City and Bently. The Court also struck Diamond
City and Bently’s answer as it was submitted after the entry of default.
On
May 17, 2024, Diamond City and Bently filed the present motion. A hearing on
their motion is set for June 11, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Diamond
City and Bently seek to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). For the following reasons, the Court DENIES their motion.
Legal Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving
party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.
(b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional
and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has
elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,
42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not
entry of judgment.” (Id.)
Courts
liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly
sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors
resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating
a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)
However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a
party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or
negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms
v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.)
Discussion
In
this case, Diamond City and Bently’s motion to set aside default and default
judgment was filed on May 17, 2024, which is more than six months after the
entry of default on October 19, 2023. While Diamond City and Bently may contend
their motion was brought within six months of the entry of default judgment, the
“six-month period runs from entry of default, not entry of judgment.” (Manson,
supra, 176 Cal.App.4th at p. 42.) Furthermore, to the extent they claim
they filed an answer, their answer was untimely as it was submitted after default
had already been entered on October 19, 2023.
Accordingly,
because Diamond City and Bently did not timely request relief pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), the Court lacks
jurisdiction to consider their request and DENIES their motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Diamond City and
Bently’s motion to set aside and vacate the default against them is DENIED.