  Case Number:  22VECV01644    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




EDWIN
  MORERA,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
ELIZABETH
  HAMILTON, et al.,
 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 22VECV01644                   107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Motion to be Relieved
  as Counsel
                  



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.  
 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
On October 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed this motor vehicle negligence action
against Defendants. 
 
On July 1, 2024, Carrie J. Rognlien Esq, counsel for Plaintiff, filed the
instant motion to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed
to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
 
The motion satisfies the procedural
requirements. The notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order
are on the appropriate Judicial Council forms and addressed to the client.
(CRC, rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The proof of service indicates service on the
client and all parties. Counsel represents she served the client at his last
known address. Additionally, the form states: “Client sent correspondence to
attorney on June 24, 2024 that contained his mailing address. Client has both
mailed, fedexed and electronically served the motion papers with the
declaration on client pursuant to Rules of Court rule, 3.1360(1) and (2), all
with addresses verified in the last 30 days.” Based on these efforts, the Court
finds that counsel has satisfied the service requirements. (CRC, rule
3.1362(d).)
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to
withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no
prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of
justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
 
Here, counsel states that “Counsel should be
relieved as counsel of record on the basis that there exists bases for
permissive withdrawal. There exists a basis for permissive withdrawal under
California Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b )( 4) in that "the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively," which has caused an irreparable
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Attorney additionally makes this
motion under California Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b )(9) wherein
attorney believes that a conflict of interest exists which has led to an
irretrievable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship.”
 
 
Further, trial in this matter is set for November
20, 2024, thus there is no prejudice to the client from withdrawal.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to serve a copy
of the order granting leave to withdraw on the client and all parties who have
appeared in the action or proceeding. Counsel will be relieved upon filing
proof of service on the client of the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to give notice of
the ruling on the motion to be relieved. Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to file the
proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.
 
 
Dated:  July 26, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  
Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court