  Case Number:  19STCV39355    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Jan
Williams v. County of Los Angeles et al.,
Case No. 19STCV39355 
 
Final Status
Conference:  January 10, 2024
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON
MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion in Limine No. 1, seeking to exclude
evidence of “any alleged disciplinary actions, confirmation of conferences,
affidavits from client, Plaintiff’s performance evaluations prior to 2015,” and
to bar Plaintiff’s former supervisors, Amia Whitaker and Andrea Duncan, from
testifying.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
DENIED.  
 
While
the Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s motion is not clear about its
basis for seeking exclusion of evidence, it is plain that Plaintiff asks the
Court to exclude substantial evidence about Plaintiff’s employment history,
including the alleged misconduct and prior discipline on which Defendant relies
to demonstrate its legitimate non-retaliatory reasons for terminating
Plaintiff’s employment.  As the Court
noted in its ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary judgment and/or
adjudication, Defendant’s asserted reasons for terminating Plaintiff are
grounded on the very evidence sought to be excluded:
 
“To
justify the adverse actions taken against Plaintiff, Defendant contends that
Plaintiff’s supervisors received multiple complaints from her clients that she
engaged in flagrant misconduct in her assignments from December 31, 2014 to
August 3, 2016, including extorting and threatening caregivers (SSUMF Nos.
50-56), demanding to purchase the belongings of caregivers for small fractions
of their worth (Nos. 57-58, 60), yelling at clients, lecturing them about
religion and treating them with disrespect (Nos. 27-28, 33-34, 37-40),  and failing to make or coming late to
scheduled appointments with caregivers (Nos. 59-60).  There is evidence that Plaintiff was
subjected to several disciplinary actions regarding her professionalism and
compliance with DCFS policy. (No. 64.) 
According to Defendant, Plaintiff was ultimately discharged because her
disciplinary history and the evidence collected showed a pattern of
unprofessional behavior and egregious misuse of her position. (No. 66.)”  (Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission, filed
May 15, 2023, p. 5.)  
 
This
evidence is at the core of Defendant’s defense of this case and, thus, is
centrally relevant to the litigation of Plaintiff’s retaliation claim.  As a result, the Court cannot grant
Plaintiff’s motion to exclude this highly relevant evidence. 
 
Defendant’s
Motion in Limine
No. 1, seeking exclusion of all evidence,
argument, etc., regarding Plaintiff’s prior settlement or other prior
settlements or verdicts against Defendant. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED.  
 
As
the Court explained in ruling on Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication,
evidence of Plaintiff’s settlement is admissible to prove protected conduct as
one of the elements of her retaliation claim. 
In its ruling on that claim, the Court recognized the probative value of
this evidence:
 
“Plaintiff
has offered evidence of protected conduct including her [May] 2016 DFEH/EEOC
complaint filed after the disclosure of the “Walking Wounded” memo accusing
Defendant of disability discrimination and naming Plaintiff’s supervisors, Amia
Whitaker and ARA Andrea Duncan. 
(Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶¶ 234-236.) 
According to Plaintiff, this complaint was settled in October 2016 and a
settlement agreement signed in early 2017. 
(Id., ¶ 236; Defts. Exh. D).  This
settlement also constitutes protected conduct. 
In addition, Plaintiff engaged in protected conduct when she submitted
her June 21, 2016 doctor’s note in which her physician indicated that
Plaintiff’s stress condition required that she be removed from the supervision
of LSW Amia Whitaker and ARA Andrea Duncan. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶¶ 119,
126-128; Plaintiff’s Exh. 2.)”
 
Because
this evidence goes to a key element of Plaintiff’s retaliation claim, it is
centrally relevant to Plaintiff’s case and cannot be excluded under Evidence
Code sections 350, 352 or 1101.  
 
As
to settlements or verdicts with respect to other cases or claims against
Defendant, Plaintiff has not offered any basis for admitting such
evidence.  Nor has Defendant identified
any specific evidence it seeks to exclude. 
For these reasons, the Court cannot rule on the matter based on the
papers submitted and, thus, denies the motion without prejudice to raising
objections to specific evidence that may be offered at trial.  
  
Defendant’s
Motion in Limine
No. 2, seeking exclusion of all evidence,
argument, etc., regarding the “Walking Wounded Memo”
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  The
Court needs more information to rule on this motion.  Plainly, the memo would not be admitted for
the truth of the matters stated in it, so Defendant’s hearsay objection is
overruled, although the Court would provide an explicit admonition to the jury
of its limited purpose.  While apparently
not attached to Plaintiff’s EEOC/DFEH complaint, the memo is explicitly
described in the administrative complaint, which is admissible as evidence of
Plaintiff’s protected conduct.  Further,
the Court needs to consider the extent to which the contents of the memo should
be admitted as something that would have provoked Defendant to retaliate
against Plaintiff.  The Court needs to hear
argument before it can rule on Defendant’s objection under Evidence Code § 352.
 
Defendant’s Motion in Limine No. 3, seeking exclusion
of all evidence, argument, etc., regarding any alleged wrongful conduct by the
County prior to January 21, 2017.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED IN PART, as described below.  
 
The
alleged misconduct included in Plaintiff’s May 2016 EEOC/DFEH complaint may not
be admitted to prove any adverse actions taken against Plaintiff nor any
damages for which she may be entitled to compensation in this action.  The parties’ settlement agreement precludes
any administrative complaints or lawsuits based on the allegations set forth in
Plaintiff’s May 2016 EEOC/DFEH complaint. 
Defendant’s motion sweeps too far in seeking to bar evidence of alleged
misconduct after the filing of the May 2016 complaint but before the January
21, 2017, as the settlement agreement does not appear to encompass any such
actions.  Further, the Court leaves open
the possibility that certain pre-complaint evidence may be relevant to
Plaintiff’s pending retaliation cause of action and will hear argument about
this issue at the Final Status Conference.
 
Defendant’s
Motion in Limine
No. 4, seeking exclusion of all evidence that is
violative of Welfare and Institutions Code section 827.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED.  Defendant does not identify any specific
testimony or other evidence that will be presented by Plaintiff that would
violate WIC § 827, so the Court cannot assess whether there is any evidence to
be excluded.  Indeed, because § 827
involves the confidentiality of a DSS case file, it is unclear how the
objection applies to Plaintiff’s efforts to call lay witnesses to testify to
their personal knowledge of their dealings with Plaintiff.  To guard against any violation of the
protections under § 827, however, the Court will require Plaintiff to make an
offer of proof about the testimony to be offered by any family member or
caregiver who will be called to testify at trial.  In that context, the Court will determine if
the testimony is relevant, whether its disclosure by the witness would violate
the statute, and whether the probative value of any proffered testimony is
outweighed by the considerations under Evidence Code § 352.  
 
Defendant’s
Motion in Limine
No. 5, seeking exclusion of all evidence related
to any settlement discussions or settlement figures discussed by the parties to
this action.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.  
 
Defendant’s
Motion in Limine
No. 6, seeking exclusion of all evidence related
to the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
Adjudication.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 