 Case Number:  22STCV20261    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 10, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: May 7, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Weste Pointe Homes, Inc. v. Michael
Zipperstein, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV20261            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant West Pointe Homes, Inc.
and Cross-Defendants James Stephen Rasmussen and Jeanne Terese Rasmussen
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants and
Cross-Complainants, Michael and Mindy Zipperstein, individually and as trustees
of the Zipperstein Family Trust dated May 18, 2009
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/21/22: Complaint filed.
·        
07/29/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
07/31/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
10/11/23: Request for dismissal as to
Cross-Defendant Jeanne Rasmussen on all causes of action and as to the fifth
and sixth causes of action as to all parties. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for foreclosure on a mechanic’s lien and breach of
contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants refused to pay for construction
work done on their home. 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant West
Pointe Homes, Inc. and Cross-Defendants James Stephen Rasmussen and Jeanne
Terese Rasmussen demur to the First Amended Cross-Complaint as to all remaining
causes of action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
the eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation only and otherwise
OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant West
Pointe Homes, Inc. and Cross-Defendants James Stephen Rasmussen and Jeanne
Terese Rasmussen demur to the First Amended Cross-Complaint as to all remaining
causes of action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the complaint
or cross-complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
Cross-Defendants filed a
declaration stating that the parties met and conferred at least five days
before filing this motion but were unable to reach a full resolution on this
dispute. (Declaration of Demurring Party ¶ 2(a).) Cross-Defendants have
satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Alter Ego
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to all remaining causes of action against James Rasmussen on the basis
that Cross-Complainants have failed to state facts sufficient to allege an
alter ego theory of liability. 
 
To hold an owner of a corporation
personally liable for the acts of the corporation as an alter ego of the owner,
“[f]irst, there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between the
corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the
corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be
an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the
corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 539.) 
 
Cross-Defendants argue that
Cross-Complainants are estopped from asserting an alter ego theory of liability
because the Cross-Complaint admits to having transacted with Cross-Defendant
West Pointe as a corporation. Cross-Defendants rely on language from a 1958
appellate opinion, Petersen v. Cloverdale Egg Farms (and its progeny),
which states:
 
“It is a well-established general rule
that one who deals with an apparent corporation as such and in such manner as
to recognize its corporate existence de jure or de facto is thereby estopped to
deny the fact thus admitted. The estoppel extends as well to the privies as to
the parties to such transactions. The general rule is applied in actions
brought by either of the contracting parties against the other and in actions
by the person dealing with the corporation, wherein the existence of the
corporation is assailed for the purpose of establishing individual partnership
liability on the part of its members.”
 
(Petersen v. Cloverdale Egg Farms (1958) 161
Cal.App.3d 792, 798.) In raising this argument, Cross-Defendants ignore the sentence
immediately preceding this quotation which provides essential context: “It is a
well settled general rule that a person who has acted as director,
officer, or agent of an association purporting to be a corporation is
estopped to deny its corporate existence both as against the alleged
corporation itself and its members and stockholders.” (Id. [emphasis
added].) In context, the doctrine set forth in Petersen states only that
officers and agents of a corporation cannot deny the existence of the
corporation for which they have acted, not that any party who transacts business
with a corporation in any capacity is so restricted. If the Court were to
accept Cross-Defendants’ interpretation, it would totally bar application of
the alter ego doctrine in any contractual dispute. Had the Court of Appeal
intended that result, it would have so stated in unambiguous language. The
First Amended Cross-Complaint does not allege that Cross-Complainants are
officers or agents of West Pointe Homes, and Cross-Defendants do not argue
otherwise. Cross-Complainants are therefore not estopped from asserting an
alter ego theory against Cross-Defendants. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
also argue that the Cross-Complaint fails to adequately allege a unity of
interest and inequitable result to assert an alter ego theory. The First
Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that West Pointe has repeatedly been delinquent
in providing its Statements of Information (FAXC ¶ 8), and that West Pointe is
consistently undercapitalized and insolvent (¶ 14.) Cross-Complainants also
allege, on information and belief, that West Pointe did not conduct periodic
elections for the holder of shares to elect a board of directors and for the
board to elect officers (¶ 10), and that James Rasmussen has disregarded
corporate formalities and commingled corporate and personal assets (¶ 15). The
Court finds these allegations sufficient to plead a unity of interest between
the Cross-Defendants at this stage. These are not merely allegations that James
Rasmussen “owns all of the corporate stock and makes all of the management
decisions” as Cross-Defendants contend. (See A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 696.) As to the second prong of
the alter ego doctrine, Cross-Complainants have directly alleged that recognizing
the corporate form would constitute an injustice to the Cross-Complainants.
(FAXC ¶ 17.) Construing the allegations in the light most favorable to the
non-moving party, as required on a demurrer, the Cross-Complaint alleges that
West Pointe is undercapitalized and insolvent and fails to follow corporate
formalities, which, if true, would lead to an inequitable result if
Cross-Complainants prevail against the corporation. (See FAXC ¶14.) A litigant
advancing an alter ego liability theory need only allege ultimate facts, rather
than evidentiary facts, and this is precisely what Cross-Complainants have
done.  (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v.
Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236.)  Given this standard and applying the favorable
construction required on a demurrer, the Court finds these allegations
sufficient to state claims for alter ego liability. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action (Accounting
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for an accounting for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To plead a
cause of action for accounting, a plaintiff must show “that a relationship
exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and
that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an
accounting.” (Tesselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
“An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the
right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by
calculation.” (Id.) A cause of action for an accounting will not lie
where there is an adequate remedy at law, i.e., where the amount sought is a
sum certain or a sum that is capable of being made certain by calculation. (St.
James Church of Christ Holiness v. Superior Court (1955) 135 Cal.App.2d
352, 359.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that the proposed contract attached as Exhibit 1 to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint provides a remedy at law because it provides a contractual
mechanism for obtaining bills and receipts and an estimate for the incomplete
renovation project that is the focus of this cause of action. (See FACC Exh. 1.
p.2.) A document which the Cross-Complaint explicitly disavows as not
reflecting the agreement of the parties and bearing forged signatures cannot
establish a remedy at law. (FACC ¶ 28.) Moreover, Cross-Defendants make no
effort to demonstrate that the damages claimed by Cross-Complainants are
certain or can be made certain by calculation, as was the case in the authority
on which Cross-Defendants rely. (St. James Church of Christ Holiness, supra,
135 Cal.App.2d at 359.) The Court is not persuaded that the fourth cause of
action is insufficient in this respect.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action (Intentional Misrepresentation)
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the seventh cause of action for intentional misrepresentation for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
“The elements of fraud that will lead to a tort action are:
(a) misrepresentation; (b) knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud, i.e.,
to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper
manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient
specificity to allow defendant[s] to understand fully the nature of the charge
made. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Ibid.) “[G]eneral and conclusory allegations
do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
first argue that this cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule. As
the California Supreme Court stated: “conduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 551.) The Erlich Court found that mere negligent breach of
a contract is not sufficient to meet this standard. (Id. at 552.) The
high court explained, “[g]enerally, outside the insurance context, a tortious
breach of contract ... may be found when (1) the breach is accompanied by a
traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the
means used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue
coercion or; (3) one party intentionally breaches the contract intending or
knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of
mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.” (Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 553-54 [internal quotations and citations
omitted, emphasis added].) Cross-Complainants’ fraud claim is not barred by Erlich
and its progeny. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
also argue that the Cross-Complaint fails to plead the requisite facts with
specificity. The seventh cause of action alleges that Cross-Defendants intentionally
overcharged for their work, including billing for fees which were not agreed
upon and overbilling for costs on work performed. (FAXC ¶¶ 32, 61.) The
Cross-Complaint does not allege precisely when these bills were sent, but
alleges that work on the second project took place between July 2020 and
February 2022. (FAXC ¶ 30.) The Cross-Complaint also does not allege by what
means these false charges were tendered, nor who conveyed those charges on
behalf of West Pointe. However, the purpose of the specificity requirement in
fraud actions is “to furnish the defendant with certain definite charges which
can be intelligently met [and that the] complaint should be sufficiently
specific that the court can weed out nonmeritorious actions.” (Committee on
Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216-17 [internal quotations omitted].) However, “[l]ess specificity is required
when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.”
(Id. at 217 [internal quotations omitted].) Here, the nature of the
allegations with respect to this cause of action is that Cross-Defendants
intentionally manufactured fraudulent charges and cost bills for the
agreed-upon construction work to secure greater payments than they were
entitled to receive. Cross-Defendants should have access to their own billing
statements and know whether that billing is accurate. Thus, the Court finds
that less specificity is required for this cause of action, and that
Cross-Complainants have pleaded this claim with sufficient detail to satisfy
the twin purposes of the heightened pleading standard for fraud claims.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent Misrepresentation)
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. 
 
To prevail on a claim of
negligence, a plaintiff must prove (1) a duty of the defendant to use due care,
(2) a breach of that duty, and (3) that the breach was the cause of the
resulting injury. (See, e.g., Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917-18.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action, like the seventh cause of action, is barred by
the economic loss rule. Unlike the seventh cause of action, this cause of
action alleges mere negligence in Cross-Defendants’ performance of the contract
by overbilling and overcharging for services rendered. Under Erlich,
these claims are not independent of Cross-Complainants’ breach of contract
claims. (See Erlich, supra, 21 Cal.4th at 551.) The eighth cause of
action is therefore fatally defective.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
            
            As the
Court has found that the eighth cause of action is barred by the rule set forth
in Erlich v. Menezes and its progeny, the Court finds that this cause of
action is incapable of amendment. Leave to amend is therefore not warranted
with respect to this cause of action. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation
only and otherwise OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 10,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 