 Case Number:  23LBCV02391    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTJANE KR DOE, ETC., Plaintiff(s), vs. LONG BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DIST., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 23LBCV02391 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 31, 2024Moving Party: Defendant, LBUSDOpposing Party: Plaintiff, Jane KR Doe, a minor, by and through her GAL, Jane TR DoeNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Jane KR Doe, a minor, by and through her GAL, Jane TR Doe, filed this action against Defendants, LBUSD, Jill Baker, Rebecca Caverly, and Brianna Flotree for damages arising out of sexual assault perpetrated on Plaintiff by another student at the school. The individual defendants are the superintendent, principal, and teacher allegedly responsible for allowing the assault to occur.Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her original complaint. It includes causes of action for negligence, negligent hiring, training, and supervision, and dangerous condition of public property. All causes of action are pled against all defendants.2. Motion for Judgment on the Pleadingsa. Parties’ PositionsDefendants move for judgment on the pleadings, contending:· The individual defendants are immune from liability;· Plaintiff failed to allege constructive notice that the student who assaulted her was dangerous;· The complaint lacks specificity;· No dangerous condition of public property has been pled.Plaintiff opposes the motion. She argues her claims, made per §340.1, do not require specificity at the pleading stage. She contends the individual defendants are liable for the assault. She contends she has adequately alleged facts showing Defendants “knew or should have known” of the abuser’s propensity to assault. She contends she has adequately alleged a duty to supervise and protect students on campus, and the failure to carry that duty out rendered the property dangerous. She seeks leave to amend in the event the Court grants the motion.Defendants, in reply, contend the case Plaintiff cites to stand for the position that lower specificity is required actually shows why Plaintiff’s complaint is deficient. They contend Plaintiff has cited only a single out-of-state federal case to support her position that the individual defendants bear liability for the abuse. They contend specificity is required and no constructive notice and/or dangerous condition is pled.b. Individual DefendantsDefendants contend the individual defendants cannot be held responsible for the subject assault. Specifically, they contend the Coverdell Act provides for immunity to teachers, principals, and otherschool professionals in this context. The Court has reviewed the Act and finds it has no application to this case. It provides immunity for “actions of the teacher…carried out…in furtherance of efforts to control, discipline, expel, or suspend a student or maintain order or control in the classroom or school.” Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants were engaged in discipline or in acts intended to maintain order or control in the school. She alleges Defendants failed to prevent a childhood sexual assault. Defendants cite no authority applying the Act in this context, and the Court knows of none. The motion on this ground is therefore denied.c. Constructive KnowledgePlaintiff’s complaint alleges Defendants are liable for the abuse because (a) they knew or should have known of the abuser’s propensity for abuse, and (b) they failed to implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of future unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator (¶45).Defendants rely on Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549 to support their position that Plaintiff cannot establish liability by showing Defendants failed to take reasonable preventatives steps or implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of future unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator. The Rutter Guide on Statutes of Limitations, §4:516.1, explains the following in this regard:The California Supreme Court construed the knowledge requirement of a prior version of the statute of repose as requiring the victim “to establish that the nonperpetrator defendant had actual knowledge, constructive knowledge (as measured by the reason to know standard), or was otherwise on notice that the perpetrator had engaged in past unlawful sexual conduct with a minor and, possessed of this knowledge or notice, failed to take reasonable preventative steps or implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of future unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator.” [Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 C4th 531, 549, 67 CR3d 330, 343]Comment: The version of the statute construed in Doe used the conjunctive “and,” whereas the current statute, including the 2019 amendment, uses the disjunctive term “or.” It is therefore unclear whether the limited statute of repose as now set forth in CCP § 340.1(c) can be overcome in two different ways—by showing actual or constructive knowledge of “any misconduct” by an employee, volunteer, representative or agent creating a “risk” of childhood sexual assault, or by showing the entity, regardless of lack of knowledge, failed to take reasonable steps or to implement safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault.The Court finds the legislature would not have changed the word “and” to the word “or” when amending the statute unless it intended the change to have an effect. Defendants did not, in their moving papers, attempt to negate Plaintiff’s allegations concerning lack of reasonable steps to implement safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault.Notably, Defendants spend significant time in their opening brief arguing liability against a public entity is statutory in nature, and failure to discharge a duty cannot give rise to liability absent a statutory basis. The statute, however, is §340.1(c), as discussed above. The motion for judgment on the pleadings on this ground is therefore denied.d. Dangerous Condition of Public PropertyPursuant to Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1135, a public entity is not liable under §835 for a dangerous condition created by a third party, as opposed to a condition inherent in the property itself.Plaintiff argues she has sufficiently pled a claim for dangerous condition of public property, relying on Jennifer C. v. LAUSD (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1323 to support her position. Jennifer was aspecial needs student who brought suit against LAUSD for negligent supervision and dangerous condition of public property based on the fact that she was a special needs student and was assaulted by another special needs student on school grounds. The trial court granted summary judgment, and the appellate court reversed. With respect to dangerous condition, the appellate court found there were triable issues of material fact concerning whether the alcove where Jennifer was assaulted was dangerous, in that Jennifer raised triable issues concerning whether the area lacked proper lighting and visibility.Plaintiff, at ¶93 of the complaint, alleges Defendants created a situation where special needs students had to walk in isolated and hidden areas of the building that could not be property supervised. At ¶37, Plaintiff alleges the perpetrator isolated her in a back hallway that was not visible or supervised.Defendant argues, in reply, that Plaintiff alleges a hallway, whereas Jennifer alleged an alcove. The Court finds these are issues of fact for the fact-finder, not pleading issues. Plaintiff’s complaint is sufficient, under Jennifer, to state a claim for dangerous condition of public property. The motion for judgment on the pleadings is therefore denied.e. ConclusionThe motion for judgment on the pleadings is denied in its entirety.Defendants are ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at thehearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.DATED: October 31, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court