 Case Number:  22STCV26195    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  August 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Martin Chavez and Jose Gonzalez (“Jose Gonzalez”)  filed this action against Defendants Faustino Gonzalez  (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort.  On October  3, 2022, Defendant filed an answer.  On  October 20, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for terminating sanctions or in the  alternative for monetary sanctions against Jose Gonzalez.  Trial  is set for February 9, 2024.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Defendant asks the Court to grant terminating sanctions or, in the alternative,  monetary sanctions against Jose Gonzalez.  LEGAL STANDARD             Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:            “To the extent authorized by the  chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of  this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney,  and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against  anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:            “(a) The court may impose a monetary  sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or  any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,  including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The  court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that  another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney  who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by  any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.                                                              *  * *            “(d) The court may impose a  terminating sanction by one of the following orders:            “(1) An order striking out the  pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process.            “(2) An order staying further  proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed.            “(3) An order dismissing the action,  or any part of the action, of that party.            “(4) An order rendering a judgment by  default against that party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,  subds. (a), (d).)            A violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of  terminating sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21  Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party  persists in disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84  Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796 (Deyo).)            A terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which  should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra, 84  Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A decision to order terminating sanctions should  not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of  abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce  compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing  the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  DISCUSSION            On  August 7, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motions to compel responses to  form and special interrogatories and ordered Jose Gonzalez to provide verified  code-compliant responses to the interrogatories without objections by September  11, 2023. The Court also granted Defendant’s motion to compel responses to the  request for production and production of items and ordered Jose Gonzalez to  provide verified code-compliant responses and to produce the documents,  electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without  objections by September 11, 2023.  The Court based its rulings on Jose Gonzalez's failure to provide responses to Defendant's discovery requests.   Defendant gave notice of this order on March 24, 2023.  Jose  Gonzalez has not complied with the Court’s August 7, 2023 order. The Court  finds that, in light of Jose Gonzalez's history of not responding to Defendant's discovery requests and failure to comply with the Court's August 7, 2023 order, no lesser sanction than dismissal would result in Jose Gonzalez  complying with his discovery obligations. The Court grants the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Faustino Gonzalez’s motion for terminating sanctions.  The Court DISMISSES Plaintiff Jose Gonzalez’s  action with prejudice under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,  subdivision (d)(3).  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.