  Case Number:  23CHCV02186    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  F51  

OCTOBER 21,
2024
 

MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02186

 
Motion
Filed: 9/17/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Ruben Romero; and Del Sur Corporation dba Camino Real Mortgage Bankers
(collectively, “Defendants”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Marlene Moretti (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order quashing Plaintiff’s
8/30/24 deposition subpoena for production of business records, propounded and
served on non-party Cornerstone First Mortgage.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
Despite having been previously warned to comply
with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” set forth in the 5/13/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil, Defendant’s counsel has
again failed to bookmark the declarations, exhibits and proof of service
attached to the motion. (5/13/19 First Amended General Order, pp.4:4–5; CRC
3.1110(f)(4); 1/20/23 Minute Order.) In the future, the Court will refuse to
consider papers which do not comply with the foregoing requirements. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 8/30/24, Plaintiff served a deposition subpoena for
business records on non-party
deponent Cornerstone First Mortgage, seeking the production of Defendant
Romero’s employment records and payment history. (Decl. of JT Fox ¶¶ 2–3.)
 
On 9/17/24, Defendants filed the instant motion to quash
the subject deposition subpoena.  On
10/2/24, Plaintiff filed her opposition. No reply has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party may move to
quash a deposition subpoena to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a deposition
subpoena that makes “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
Here, Defendants move to quash Plaintiff’s 8/30/24 deposition subpoena to non-party deponent Cornerstone First
Mortgage on the basis that the
subpoena “is a violation of the Restraining Order
against Johnny Romero and his associates, including MORETTI, and that it merely
seeks to harass and intimidate defendant Ruben Romero.” (Defs.’ Mot. 2:2–4.)
 
Defendants argue that “the
subpoena is part of a joint effort with Johnny Romero to interfere in Ruben
Romero’s employment and intimidate his employer” in violation of a temporary
restraining order prohibiting him from obtaining defendant Ruben Romero’s
address or locations. (Id. at 3:11–18, citing Ex. 1 to Decl. of Daniel
M. Shapiro.) “Moreover, Ruben Romero’s employment with CORNERSTONE is neither
relevant to MORETTI’s claims against ROMERO, no[r] can the information
reasonably lead to relevant evidence.” (Id. at 5:10–11.)
 
Plaintiff argues in
opposition that the documents sought are relevant here because “if Ruben used his position to divert business opportunities to
Cornerstone (his new employer), then information about Defendant’s new role,
compensation, and agreements is relevant to determine whether Cornerstone
benefited from Defendant’s breach of fiduciary duties, and whether Plaintiff’s
consent was necessary.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:10–13.) “Further, Plaintiff’s Complaint
suggests that Ruben engaged in self-dealing. This could involve using assets or
clients of the Company for the benefit of Cornerstone (such as using customer
lists, intellectual property, or other proprietary resources). The records
sought will be critical to quantify the extent of any such misappropriation and
damages, especially with an impeding trial date.” (Id. at 4:14–17.)
Therefore, Plaintiff contends that “the subpoenaed records are necessary to
understand whether Defendant’s new position at Cornerstone is a continuation or
redirection of the Company’s goodwill and client base, which could impact the
valuation of the Company and Plaintiff’s interests therein.” (Id. at
4:19–21.)
 
As to the restraining order
against nonparty Johnny Romero, Plaintiff argues that “the Restraining Order
does not forbid the discovery of litigation relevant information from Ruben’s
employer, nor does it prevent Plaintiff from determining who Ruben’s employer
is. Indeed, Ruben’s employment with Cornerstone is public information. …
Specifically, he is listed as a ‘Branch Manager’ on Cornerstone’s website.” (Id.
at 5:12–16, citing Decl. of Marlene Moretti, ¶ 4.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that there is good cause for the production of the
documents at issue, and that the subpoena is not violative of the restraining
order against nonparty Johnny Romero. The Court notes that neither party has
proffered a copy of the subject subpoena for the Court’s review, and further,
as Plaintiff notes, Defendants have failed to provide a separate statement highlighting
any specific document requests at issue within the subpoena. (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.1345(a)(5).) Accordingly, the motion is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.