 Case Number:  23CHCV00535    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-26-24
Case #23CHCV00535 , Milad Nowrozani vs. Anthony Chiang, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Milad Nowrozani
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
For the Court
to enter order for terminating sanctions, striking Chiang’s answer, and
entering default.
 
RULING:
Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Milad
Nowrozani (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant Anthony Chiang
(Defendant) and other defendants on February 24, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant tricked Plaintiff into wiring him $28,000.00. Plaintiff believed that
he was getting an Audemars Piguet watch, but Defendant never delivered the
watch to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff now believes that the watch never existed.
 
Defendant filed
an answer in pro per on April 4, 2023. Since then, Plaintiff argues in his
motion that Defendant has not participated in discovery or otherwise
participated in litigation. On July 7, 2023, the Court ordered that Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admissions be deemed admitted and ordered Defendant to pay $250.00
in sanctions. Defendant did not oppose the motion or appear at that hearing. On
September 14, 2023, the Court ordered Defendant to serve responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories and pay $250.00 in sanctions. Defendant
also did not oppose that motion or appear at that hearing. On September 21,
2023, the Court ordered Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents and pay $250.00 in sanctions. Once again, Defendant did
not oppose that motion or appear at the hearing.
 
For each
motion, Defendant did not oppose the motion, appear at the hearing, or
subsequently serve responses or pay the ordered sanctions. Plaintiff’s counsel
also represents that he has received no communications from Chiang at any point
in time.
 
On December 21,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for terminating sanctions because of
Defendant’s failure to obey the Court’s orders to respond to the discovery or
pay the sanctions. Plaintiff argues that terminating sanctions are appropriate
because less severe monetary sanctions have been ineffective. Defendant has not
filed any opposition to this motion.
 
ANALYSIS
It is a misuse
of the discovery process to fail to respond or submit to an authorized form of
discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(d).) It is also a misuse of the discovery process to
disobey a court order to provide discovery. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) “To the extent
authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method…, the
court, after notice to any affected party . . . and after opportunity for
hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process: (d) […] a terminating sanction […].”
(CCP § 2023.030(d).) The terminating sanction may: (1) strike out the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; and/or (2) render
a judgment by default against that party. (CCP § 2023.030(d)(1), (4).)
 
“If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.)
 
Defendant has
failed to participate in the litigation in any meaningful way since he filed
his answer. He failed to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. He did not
oppose Plaintiff’s motions to compel discovery or appear at the hearings on the
motions. He disobeyed the Court orders compelling him to provide responses to the
discovery. He failed to pay the monetary sanctions that the Court imposed
against him for each of the three motions. Defendant has also not filed any
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions.
 
Based on the
foregoing, it appears that Defendant has no intention of further participation
in this litigation. Terminating sanctions are appropriate.
 
Plaintiff’s motion
for terminating sanctions is granted. Defendant’s answer filed on April 4,
2023, is ordered stricken. The Court enters default against 