 Case Number:  23CHCV03009    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-26-24
Case # 23CHCV03009, Mina Asghari vs. General
Motors, LLC
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PMQ
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Mina Asghari
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
An order compelling
Defendant to produce its PMQ for deposition, as well as sanctions,
 
RULING: The
parties are ordered to meet and confer and prepare a joint statement of
remaining issues.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On October 6,
2023, Plaintiff Mina Asghari (Plaintiff) filed this lemon law case against
Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant). As part of Plaintiff’s discovery
requests in this case, Plaintiff served a notice of deposition for Defendant’s
person most qualified (PMQ) on November 2, 2023. On November 21, 2023,
Defendant served objections to the notice, which Plaintiff claims were
baseless, boilerplate objections.
 
On November 28,
2023, Plaintiff began making attempts to meet and confer with Defendant. These
attempts included leaving a voice message, writing to Defendant, requesting to
schedule a Zoom meeting, and indicating that Plaintiff would send Defendant
some documents that Plaintiff had in her possession. Plaintiff alleges,
however, that Defendant failed to respond to these communications.
 
On November 30,
2023, Plaintiff served her First Amended Notice of Deposition. Defendant again
served objections to the notice on December 15, 2023. That same day, Plaintiff
once more tried to communicate with Defendant, but Defendant did not respond.
 
Plaintiff
served her Second Amended Notice of Deposition on February 21, 2024. Defendant
served the same objections on March 12, 2024. On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff
tried again to meet and confer with Defendant, but Defendant failed to respond
again, just has it had to Plaintiff’s other attempts to meet and confer.
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel deposition of Defendant’s PMQ on April 2,
2024. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$2,970.00.
 
Defendant’s
opposition attempts to argue that Plaintiff somehow failed to meet and confer
in good faith, when it was Defendant who never responded to any Plaintiff’s
correspondence. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied
because she only seeks to compel irrelevant testimony. Next, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff impermissibly seeks production of trade secret material.
Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is groundless.
 
Plaintiff
argues in reply that Defendant ignored her meet and confer efforts. Next,
Plaintiff argues that her request matters of examination are relevant and
discoverable. Finally, Plaintiff argues that sanctions are warranted.
 
ORDER
The parties are
ordered to comply with the Court’s new discovery order in connection with this
motion and any other pending discovery matters, subject to objections by the
parties, with a continued hearing date to be set at the hearing on this motion. The
Court’s discovery order is posted online, along with this Department’s
courtroom information and Final Status Conference Order, all of which the
parties are ordered to review. The Court will also order the parties to prepare
a joint status report regarding this discovery dispute, setting forth issues
they have agreed upon and, if any, remaining issues in dispute, with the date
for that status report to be determined at the continued hearing.
 
The section of
the Court’s new discovery for Lemon Law cases that is relevant to this motion
reads as follows:
“4. Depositions:  Within the time limits allowed by law,
Defendant may depose plaintiff, and plaintiff may depose the person most
knowledgeable (PMK) as to up to 5 categories of information plus a deposition
of the PMK as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased, in addition to
depositions of any experts identified by the parties, after a formal demand and
exchange of expert witness information, per CCP § 2034.  Parties shall meet and confer as to whether
there is a need to take any additional depositions.  Any additional depositions may only be
noticed and taken by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing
good cause).
 
If a deponent resides outside of the
state, the deposition may be taken by video conference or telephone.  The parties will not be required to travel to
California, and the attorneys will not be required to travel out of state.”
 
The parties
should use this to help them in their preparation of their joint status report.
 
The Court
orders the parties to meet and confer and prepare a joint statement of the
issues.