  Case Number:  21STCV39406    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment.

BACKGROUND
SANDRA WILL CARRADINE (“Plaintiff”), a
self-represented litigant, filed a Second Amended Complaint, alleging: For
years, Defendants have been trying to remove Plaintiff from her leased
premises, including by fraud on the unlawful detainer court.  Plaintiff successfully obtained summary
judgment in an unlawful detainer action, based upon having a lease with an
option to purchase 2115 N. Upper Krest St., Los Angeles. Defendant DEWITTE
MORTGAGE INVESTORS FUND, LLC (“DMIF”) had foreclosed on a second deed of trust.
Also, Defendant DEWITTE recorded an assignment of a deed of trust to himself,
and seeks to foreclose on the extinguished first deed of trust, using CLE
CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (CLE) as a strawman or alter ego. Plaintiff’s causes of
action are: 1) Fraud; 2) Violation Of Anti-Harassment Ordinance; 3) Breach Of
The Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing; 4) Tortious Interference
With Contract; and 5) Unclean Hands.
Defendants DMIF and DE WITTE (Defendants or Cross-Complainants)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and others, alleging that Cross-Defendants
made publications including a lis pendens against the property, which casts
doubts on the propriety of claims to title in the Property.  Cross-Complainants’ Causes of Action are: 1)
Slander Of Title; 2) Intentional Interference With Economic Relations; 3)
Negligent Interference With Economic Relations; 4) Declaratory Relief; 5)
Ejectment; 6) Fraudulent Intentional Misrepresentation; and 7) Negligent
Misrepresentation.
Plaintiff brings a motion for summary judgment, on
grounds including that Plaintiff already prevailed on the lease validity determination
in an affirmed unlawful detainer ruling that bars affirmative defenses to the
contrary, and Defendants have unclean hands as shown by exhibits. Defendants
oppose the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must
apply a three-step analysis:  (1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings to be addressed; (2) determine
whether moving party showed facts justifying a judgment in movant’s favor; and
(3) determine whether the opposing party demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material issue of fact. E.g., Sun v. City of Oakland (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1182-1183.
ANALYSIS
            Judicial
Notice
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of former testimony
from prior case transcripts. Judicial notice of transcripts of trial court
proceedings is unauthorized where it would include hearsay referenced to prove
the truth of the statements. Hart v. Darwish (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 218,
224-25 (judicial notice proper of transcript from prior unlawful detainer case proper
only for non-hearsay purpose of ascertaining the ruling made). Thus, the
requests are denied.
            Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s evidence primarily includes her
declaration, prior trial transcripts and property transaction documents.
“A motion for summary judgment must be decided on
admissible evidence in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken. . . .  ‘Personal knowledge
and competency must be shown in the supporting and opposing affidavits and
declarations....’  ‘The affidavits must
cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions or ‘ultimate’ facts..... 'Matters
which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness
in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.’” Guthrey v. State of California
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1119-1120. “A party may not raise a triable issue
of fact at summary judgment by relying on evidence that will not be admissible
at trial.” Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017) 2 Cal. 5th 536, 543.
There is a general rule against using former testimony
in subsequent cases, unless the proponent shows the requirements of Evidence
Code Section 1291(a)(2) are satisfied. Berroteran v. Sup.Ct. (2022) 12
Cal.5th 867, 904. For summary judgment purposes, proponents of former testimony
from other cases’ trial or deposition transcripts have the burden to show
potential admissibility in a future trial, based on (1) The declarant is
unavailable as a witness, (2) former testimony is offered in a civil action and
(3) the party had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with
a similar interest and motive. Gatton v. A.P. Green Servs., Inc. (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 688, 692-696, disapproved of on other grounds by Sweetwater
Union High Sch. Dist. v. Gilbane Bldg. Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949 (“at
the second stage of an anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may consider affidavits,
declarations, and their equivalents if it is reasonably possible the proffered
evidence set out in those statements will be admissible at trial.”). For
purposes of motions generally, courts consider declarations and former
declarations made under oath or penalty of perjury in California, without
requiring compliance with Evidence Code section 1292. Sweetwater Union High
Sch. Dist. v. Gilbane Bldg. Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 945.
Here, Plaintiff has not laid foundation to show that
the hearsay of prior trial court transcripts could be admissible at trial under
Evidence Code sections 1291 or 1292.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s declaration primarily
consists of inadmissible argument, opinions and conclusions lacking in
evidentiary foundation and personal knowledge. 
Therefore, the Court sustains all of Defendants’
evidentiary objections. The Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections.

 
 
            Collateral
Estoppel
Plaintiff contends that courts have ruled that her
lease supports entitlement to possession of the leased premises. Defendants
argue that the Courts never so ruled, but instead ruled in favor of Plaintiff
due to invalid notice to the lessee.  E.g., Peter De Witte decl., ¶¶ 12-13.
“The burden of establishing preclusion by prior
adjudication (res judicata) rests squarely on the party asserting it.” Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529. “[T]he facts underlying the
applicability of the res judicata defense are tried to the court,…” Windsor
Square Homeowners Assn. v. Citation Homes (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 547, 557. “Because
an unlawful detainer action is a summary procedure involving only claims
bearing directly upon the right of immediate possession, a judgment in unlawful
detainer has very limited res judicata effect. Legal and equitable claims --
such as questions of title and affirmative defenses -- are not conclusively
established unless they were fully and fairly litigated in an adversary
hearing.” Pelletier v. Alameda Yacht Harbor (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 1551,
1557. Unlawful detainer judgments are not accorded the effect of collateral
estoppel, or res judicata, absent a fair adversary hearing. Gonzalez v.
Toews (2003) 111 Cal. App. 4th 977, 982 (“the unlawful detainer judge …
specifically pointed out that the issue … was not tried. Given that the issue
was not tried, defendants never had any adversary hearing, let alone a fair
one.”).
As to whether the unlawful detainer ruling would be
collateral estoppel in this action, Plaintiff failed to show that lease validity
was actually tried and decided, and fully and fairly litigated. Instead, the trial
judges’ interlocutory and final rulings did not address Defendants’ present
contention that the lease was a sham for no consideration to hinder
foreclosures. The trial courts expressly decided based upon finding invalid
tenant notice, and the appeal decision stated that Defendants had untimely
raised entitlement to possession based on the lease.
            Triable
Issues of Material Fact
At the root of the parties’ respective positions, is
the issue of whether Plaintiff’s lease is effective or a sham arrangement to
deter foreclosures. The lease is an alleged factor in the Second Amended
Complaint’s First Cause of Action (¶ 84), Second Cause of Action (¶ 99), Third
Cause of Action (¶ 110), Fourth Cause of Action (¶ 113) and Fifth Cause of
Action (¶ 127).
For summary judgment purposes, issues framed by
complaints and answers are to be addressed. Physicians Comm. For Responsible
Medicine v. McDonald's Corp. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 554, 568.
Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficiently competent to
shift the burden of proof and does not survive the ruling on evidentiary
objections. 
For example, Plaintiff fails to show alter ego factors
with competent proof in order to show that there was actually only one party
holding the deeds of trust partly barred by the anti-deficiency statute because
of a nonjudicial foreclosure. Generally, courts have disallowed lenders’
structured transactions done to circumvent antideficiency laws. E.g., CADC/RADC
Venture 2011-1 LLC v. Bradley (2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 775, 786. No one
test controls as to the alter ego doctrine which involves considering all of
the circumstances, which may include: The commingling of funds; identical
equitable ownership; the same offices; identical officers, directors and
employees; disregarding of corporate formalities; and use of one as a mere
shell or conduit for the other’s affairs. Morrison Knudsen Corp. v. Hancock,
Rothert & Bunshoft, LLP (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th  223, 250. 
However, Plaintiff’s declaration, at paragraph 57, mostly
competently lays evidentiary foundation to show that the subject lease is
legitimate. And Defendants’ objections address only a small portion of
paragraph 57, such that the rest of the paragraph survives for the Court’s consideration.

In opposition, Defendants’ declarations contain
references to admissions of prior owner, Lee Wong, that the lease was for no
consideration and to deter pursuits of liens on the property. E.g., Alex
Cardenas decl., ¶¶ 2-3. Those admissions are admissible under a hearsay
exception as statements against the interests by one facing legal proceedings due
to real property liens. “[E]vidence of an extrajudicial statement is admissible
over a hearsay objection if ‘the statement, when made, was so far contrary to
the declarant’s pecuniary or proprietary interest, or so far subjected him to
the risk of civil … liability….” Cheal v. El Camino Hosp. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 736, 756–757.
Therefore, the Court determines there is a triable
issue of material fact as to whether the lease is unenforceable. 
            Discovery
Continuance
 “ ‘If it
appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication ... that facts essential to justify opposition
may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented, the court shall deny
the motion, or order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had....’ ”  Krantz
v. BT Visual Images, L.L.C.  (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 164, 175 n.7 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd. (h)). (Underscoring
added.)
The declaration of Shalom Rubanowitz shows that more
time is needed to complete discovery and to file a deposition transcript in
opposition, to show an ineffective lease. That supports denying or continuing
the motion.
CONCLUSION
The motion is denied.