 Case Number:  23STCV15929    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
13, 2023                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Mark Huard v. CVS Pharmacy, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV15929

 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND DISMISS ACTION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
CVS Pharmacy
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Mark Huard
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Compelling Arbitration and Dismissing the Action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendant CVS Pharmacy, Inc. only.
2.      The
matter is STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 7, 2023, Plaintiff Mark Huard (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants CVS Pharmacy, Inc. and Lew Arlington (Defendants)
with eleven causes of action for: (1) Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA;
(2) Hostile Work Environment in Violation of the FEHA; (3) Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; (4) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in
Violation of the FEHA; (5) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in
Violation of FEHA; (6) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation
in Violation of FEHA; (7) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention; (8)
Wrongful Termination of Employment in Violation of Public Policy; (9)
Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy; (10) Whistleblower Retaliation
(Labor Code § 1102.5); and (11) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendant
CVS and Defendant Arlington was his supervisor. Plaintiff alleges to have a
physical disability and was discriminated against due to this disability and
due to his age (he is 57 years old). Plaintiff was terminated on October 7,
2021.
 
On August 10, 2023, Defendants filed an Answer.
 
On September 20, 2023, Defendant CVS Pharmacy (Moving
Defendant) filed the instant motion. On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On December 6, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Request for
Evidentiary Hearing
 
Plaintiff seeks an opportunity to cross-examine Moving
Defendant’s declarants so that court can weigh their credibility. Plaintiff
intends to call these witnesses to show that he was forced to complete training
modules under pressure from his managers, including the module with the
arbitration policy. 
 
The court declines to exercise its discretion to allow an
evidentiary hearing. The court is well aware of the
rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of
the proposed evidence.[1]
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) Here, Moving Defendant
attached a copy of the Arbitration of Workplace Legal Disputes and the
corresponding Training that introduced the policy to employees (the Agreement)
with supporting declaration of Robert G. Bailey, the Director for Talent
Management at CVS Pharmacy, Inc. and Declaration of Lisa Williams, a Lead
Investigator in CVS’s Colleague Relations department, a division of CVS Human
Resources (Bailey Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibit 1; Williams Decl. ¶ 11, Exhibit 1
(training).) Plaintiff completed the training covering the Agreement on October
9, 2014. (Williams Decl. ¶12, Exhibit 2.) Completing the training required
signing an Acknowledgement. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 16, 17.) Plaintiff did not
opt-out within the specified time period. (Williams Decl. ¶ 18; Declaration of
Lorne Dunkerton ¶ 5.) California and Federal law provide that
electronic signatures on arbitration agreements are valid. The California
Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (“UETA”) indicates that an electronic
signature has the same legal effect as handwritten signature. Plaintiff does
not challenge his signature’s authenticity.[2]
 
Thus, Moving Defendant satisfied their initial burden to
compel arbitration. 
 
1.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Applicability of
Agreement to Subject Dispute
 
Moving Defendant contends the Agreement covers Plaintiff’s
claims. Plaintiff did not specifically oppose this contention.
 
Here, the Agreement covers the subject dispute. The
Agreement applies to “any dispute between an Employee and CVS Health that is
covered by this Policy” including “any and all legal claims, disputes or
controversies . . . arising out of or related to the Employee’s employment with
CVS Health or the termination of the Employee’s employment.” (Bailey Decl.,
Exhibit 1, page 1 “Claims Covered by This Policy.”) Such claims include
“disputes regarding . . . leaves of absence, harassment, discrimination,
retaliation and termination arising under the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
Americans with Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, . . .
and other federal, state and local statutes, regulations and other legal
authorities relating to employment.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint concerns various FEHA and other employment violations
that fall within the covered claims provision.
 
Accordingly, the Agreement covers the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to
Arbitration 
 
Once it is
determined that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the
petition.” (Lacayo v. Catalina Restaurant
Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review denied (Nov. 13, 2019)).¿ 
 
The only issue
here is whether the TCA is unconscionable. 
 
1.      
Unconscionability 
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated that when determining whether
an arbitration agreement was unconscionable, there is both a procedural and a
substantive element. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿ 
 
a.      
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
contends the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it lacks
consideration, is mandatory and non-negotiable.[3] Plaintiff also
contends that he did not knowingly waive his right to pursue claims in court
because he was pressured to click through the agreement without reading it by
his manager.[4] Moving
Defendant argues that the Agreement’s mutuality is sufficient for
consideration, it is not a contract of adhesion because he was permitted to
opt-out, and failure to read is no defense.
 
Courts determine
whether an agreement is procedurally unconscionable by looking at surprise and
oppression. Oppression is an “inequality of bargaining power, when one party
has no real power to negotiate or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
74, 84 (Carmona)). Examples of
contracts that are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which
is a “standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of
superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). 
 
Here, while this
may have been a contract of adhesion, as most employment contracts are, this
alone does not mean the whole agreement is procedurally unconscionable. “When
arbitration is a condition of employment, there is inherently economic pressure
on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone is a fairly
low level of procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Here,
the Agreement was not a surprise. Moving Defendant clearly marked the Agreement
as a separate document and provided training to Plaintiff, and other employees,
explaining what the Agreement meant. (Bailey Decl., Exhibits 1-3; Williams
Decl. ¶¶ 11, 14, 15.) The Agreement also explains the procedures for the
process if there is a dispute between the parties. While the Agreement does not
provide for opt-out procedures, the training that Moving Defendant provided to
Plaintiff, and other employees, does explain that Plaintiff had the opportunity
to opt-out by sending a letter to CVS Health, P.O. Box 969, Woonsocket, RI
02895 within 30 days after first receiving the Agreement. (Dunkerton Decl. ¶ 4;
Bailey Decl. Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff has not otherwise provided evidence of
surprise or oppression.
 
Thus, the
agreement is minimally procedurally unconscionable.¿ 
 
b.      
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Moving Defendant
contends that the TCA complies with the Armendariz
factors. Plaintiff does not oppose this contention.
 
“Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p. 85). There
are five minimum substantive requirements to an enforceable arbitration
agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than minimal discovery, (3)
written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all types of relief otherwise
available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or fees as a condition of
access. (Armendariz, supra, at
p.102.) When there is little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing
arbitration must show substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.) 
 
Here, Agreement meets the Armendariz factors. First, the Agreement provides for a neutral
arbitrator because it states that “[t]he parties will select the arbitrator by
mutual agreement.” (Bailey Decl., Exhibit 1, pg. 3.) Second, the Agreement
provides for more than minimal discovery because it states that the parties
will have the right to “conduct discovery.” (Ibid.) Third, the Agreement impliedly provides for a written award
because it states “Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator’s decision and
enforced in any court having jurisdiction .” (Ibid.) Fourth, the Agreement provides
for all types of relief available in court because it states “The arbitrator
will follow the substantive law applicable to the case and may award only those
remedies that would have been available had the matter been heard in court” (Ibid.) Fifth, the Agreement provides
that Moving Defendant will pay all costs and expenses except for
claim-initiation fee if the Employee initiates arbitration (but only so long as
the initiation fee does not exceed what a court would charge). (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff does not oppose these points.  
 
Accordingly, the Agreement is not substantively
unconscionable. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED as to Defendant CVS Pharmacy, Inc. only.
2.The matter is STAYED pending
arbitration. OSC re: status of arbitration June 11, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. 
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 12, 2023                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


