  Case Number:  22AHCV00192    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAULINE YIP, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EASTERN
   HORIZON, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00192
   (consolidated with 23STCV18152
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT EASTERN HORIZON, LLC’S MOTION TO
   COMPEL PLAINTIFF PAULINE YIP’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
   OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 8,
  2024




 


)


 



 
          There are two
document requests at issue in this motion brought by
defendant/cross-complainant Eastern Horizon, LLC (“Eastern Horizon”). Eastern
Horizon moves for an order compelling plaintiff Pauline Yip (“Yip”) to serve further
responses to RFP Nos. 38 and 39, which state:
-     
RFP
No. 38: All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO YOUR federal and state income tax filings for
the years 2010 to 2021, including, without limitation, federal and state income
tax returns.
-     
RPP
No. 39: All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any bank accounts held or used by YOU from
January 1, 2020 to the present, including, without limitation, all bank
statements.
Eastern Horizon also seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,885
against Yip and her counsel of record, while Yip seeks sanctions in the amount
of $1,600 against Eastern Horizon and its counsel of record. 
Yip objected to these requests on the
grounds that they were overbroad in time and improperly including her attorneys
in the definition of “You”, irrelevant, and invasive of her (and her
attorneys’) privacy. 
A party seeking to compel further
responses may file a motion which “shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).) 
The Court addresses each document
request in further detail below. 
          RFP No. 38
          Eastern
Horizon requests all federal and state income tax filings from 2010 to 2021 because
they are “critical to Eastern Horizon’s defense to [Yip]’s sixth cause of
action for equitable indemnity.” Yip alleges in her complaint that she was
notified by the Internal Revenue Service and California Franchise Tax Board
that she owed over $1 million in taxes as a result of Eastern Horizon’s
incorrect capital gains reporting. (Compl., ¶¶ 66-68.) She states she “is being
pursued by the Tax Authorities and has incurred a significant amount of fees in
trying to resolve the tax issues.” (Compl., ¶ 69.) 
Yip argues that her tax returns
implicate her right to privacy regarding her personal financial information. Such
right, however, must be balanced against Yip’s own claims which necessarily
implicate her financial information insofar as it is probative of her claimed
damages. 
Nevertheless, the Court notes that
Eastern Horizon fails to explain how 11 years of tax returns is necessary. For
instance, Eastern Horizon does not set forth specific facts or evidence that
tax authorities are claiming that Yip owes taxes from 2010 to 2021, even though
Yip has already produced an IRS notice and a notice to suspend her driver’s
license and real estate license. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED and the
Court sustains Yip’s objections on the grounds that RFP No. 38 is overbroad. 
RFP No. 39
Eastern Horizon argues that Yip’s bank
records from January 1, 2020, to the present are necessary to evaluate the
merits of Yip’s third cause of action for quiet title. Yip’s quiet title claim
alleges that Eastern Horizon and Defendants obtained legal title by
fraudulently inducing her to sell the property as part of a sale/leaseback
agreement with an option to repurchase. Eastern Horizon claims that these
records would show whether Yip was financially able to exercise her option to
purchase the property at 37 Twiggs, Irvine, California 92620 when she
purportedly attempted to do so in 2021. 
Yip opposes the motion and argues that
whether she had $1.67 million to pay for the entire repurchase price is
irrelevant. Yip states that she has already produced letters of pre-approvals
from lenders from 2021 to 2022, which is sufficient evidence that she was able
to obtain a loan to exercise her option to repurchase. Eastern Horizons
counters the sufficiency of these pre-approval letters by arguing that the
letters themselves are not loan commitments, but conditional and subject to
further documentation of income and expenses. But there is no recitation of any
qualifying language and there is no description of the documents upon which the
loans would be conditioned. While these supporting documents would be
discoverable, Eastern Horizon fails to show specific facts setting forth good
cause for the discovery of all of Yip’s bank records from 2020 to the present.
The motion is DENIED as to RFP No. 39 and the Court sustains the objection on
the grounds that it is overbroad. 
Both parties’ requests for sanctions
are DENIED. 
Dated
this 8th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances
at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the
final order or place the motion off calendar.
 