 Case Number:  24STCV02695    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ SCHNEUR FELDMAN, Plaintiff(s), vs. MARGUERITE V. HODGE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV02695 Hearing Date: January 9, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO FORM INTERROGATORIES  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Schneur Feldman and Devora Rafi aka Devora Feldman (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Marguerite V. Hodge (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 20 for allegations arising from breach of contract and wrongful/retaliatory eviction arising from the rental of the premises commonly known as 1500 S. Point View St., Los Angeles, California. The complaint sets forth eight causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Breach of Contract; (5) Breach of Health and Safety Code section 26147 (6) Breach of Warranty of Habitability; (7) Breach of Covenant of Quiet of Enjoyment; and (8) Retaliatory Eviction/Violation of Civil Code section 1942.5. On September 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel Defendant to serve further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, as to No. 4.1. Any opposition was due on or before December 26, 2024. No opposition has been filed to date.  II. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENT Timeliness “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (CCP §2030.300(c).) The Court has no jurisdiction to review an untimely filed motion to compel further. (Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 127, 134.) Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, on July 30, 2024. (Mann Decl. ¶ 4; Ex. B.) The instant motion was served and filed on September 13, 2024, which is 45 days from the date Plaintiffs received the responses. The Court finds that the motion timely pursuant to CCP §2030.300(c). Meet and Confer A motion to compel further response to interrogatories shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP § 2016.040.) Plaintiffs’ counsel declares he sent meet and confer correspondence upon immediate receipt of the responses, and at no time did he receive any acknowledgment from Defendant’s counsel. (Mann Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant’s counsel further did not respond to emails from either counsel or his assistant sent on August 40, 2024 and September 11, 2024. (Ibid.) The Court finds the meet and confer requirement met. Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. (CCP § 2030.300(b)(2).) The Court finds Plaintiffs have properly filed a separate statement for the motion.  III. DISCUSSION Compel Further Response CCP § 2030.300(a) provides, “On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:¿¿¿¿¿ (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.¿¿¿¿¿ (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿¿¿¿¿ (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ Plaintiffs seek to compel a further response to form interrogatory no. 4.1, which states: “At the time of the INCIDENT, was there in effect any policy of insurance through which you were or might be insured in any manner (for example, primary, pro-rata, or excess liability coverage or medical expense coverage) for the damages, claims, or actions that have arisen out of the INCIDENT? If so, for each policy state: (a) the kind of coverage; (b) the name and ADDRESS of the insurance company; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each named insured; (d) the policy number; (e) the limits of coverage for each type of coverage contained in the policy; (f) whether any reservation of rights or controversy or coverage dispute exists between you and the insurance company; and (g) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the custodian of the policy.” (Mann Decl. Ex. A.) Defendant responded: “I don’t know.” (Mann Decl. Ex. B.) Plaintiffs argue Defendant did not make a reasonable and good faith effort to respond fully to the interrogatory. CCP § 2030.220 provides that an interrogatory shall be answered to the extent possible, and if the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to fully respond, then the party shall so state, but shall make reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information. The Court finds Defendant’s response to not be code compliant. Further, Defendant did not oppose the motion. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, rule 8.54(c).) Monetary Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response. (CCP §§ 2030.300(d); 2031.310(h).)¿¿ Plaintiffs request monetary sanctions be imposed against Defendant and her counsel in the amount of $2,062.50. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) The Court will award sanctions, but not to the full extent requested.¿For this brief and straightforward unopposed motion, the Court grants Plaintiffs one hour to draft the motion, and one hour to attend the hearing, all at the requested rate of $375.00 per hour for a total of $750.00.  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED as to No. 4.1. Defendant is ordered to serve a further code-compliant response to that request within fifteen (15) days. Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and/or her counsel of record. Defendant and/or her counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $750.00, within fifteen (15) days.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 8, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 