 Case Number:  23LBCV02211    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Anthony Craig, by and
through his GAL, Joseph Craig filed this action against Defendant, Human Touch,
LLC for strict products liability and negligence.  Plaintiff is an adult with Down Syndrome.  He alleges he was using Defendant’s massage
chair in a foreseeable manner on 11/26/21, at which time he suffered severe
injuries.  He alleges the massage chair
contained defects that rendered it dangerous, and also that Defendant failed to
warn of the defects, such that Defendant is liable in strict products
liability.  He alleges Defendant
negligently designed, manufactured, distributed, etc., the subject chair, such
that it is also liable for negligence.      
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
a.    
Summary
Adjudication
Defendants seek summary adjudication of three issues.  Defendants, in their separate statement, list
39 facts that they contend entitle them to judgment as a matter of law on each
of the three issues.
 
CRC 3.1350(d)(2) makes clear that the separate statement must include
only facts pertinent to disposition of the motion.  The three issues subject to the motion for
summary adjudication, however, to not rely on the same sets of facts.  The facts that would establish the chair is
not defective as a matter of law are different from the facts that would
establish failure to warn as a matter of law.   
 
The Court will not pick through the separate statement and determine
which facts apply to which issues to be adjudicated.  The motion will therefore either be granted
or denied in its entirety, and summary adjudication will not be
entertained.  
 
b.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
c.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant, with its moving papers,
seeks judicial notice of Plaintiff’s discovery responses.  Plaintiff opposes the RJN, contending his
discovery responses are not the proper subject of judicial notice.  Regardless of whether judicial notice is the
correct mechanism for presenting the discovery responses to the Court, it is
clear that a plaintiff’s discovery responses can be used to meet the moving
burden on a summary judgment motion.  See
Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 749.  
 
The moving party, however, must
authenticate the discovery responses in order to present them, whether via a
request for judicial notice or not.  In
California, a moving party, such as a defendant in a summary judgment motion,
must authenticate documents like the plaintiff's discovery responses to meet
its moving burden. Authentication requires presenting evidence sufficient to
sustain a finding that the document is what the proponent claims it is (Midland
Funding LLC v. Romero, 5 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1 (2016)). This can be done through
declarations or other means provided by law (West's Ann.Cal.Evid.Code §1400).
 
Documents obtained in discovery can
be used to support or oppose a motion for summary judgment, but they must be
presented in admissible form, which includes proper identification and
authentication (Serri v. Santa Clara University, 226 Cal.App.4th 830 (2014)).
If the opposing party does not admit the genuineness of the document, the
proponent must present declarations or other evidence to sustain a finding of
authenticity (Serri v. Santa Clara University, 226 Cal.App.4th 830 (2014)),
(Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc., 55 Cal.App.5th 323 (2020)).
 
For example, in the case of Serri
v. Santa Clara University, the court emphasized that documents must be properly
identified and authenticated unless the opposing party admits their genuineness
(Serri v. Santa Clara University, 226 Cal.App.4th 830 (2014)). Similarly, in
Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc., the court found that documents produced
in discovery were sufficiently authenticated by their form and the attorney's
statement that they were produced in discovery (Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple
Inc., 55 Cal.App.5th 323 (2020)).
 
Defendant did not authenticate
Plaintiff’s discovery responses.  Defense
Counsel’s declaration authenticated Plaintiff’s GAL’s deposition testimony, but
not Plaintiff’s discovery responses.  The
Court has therefore not considered the responses in ruling on the motion.  
d.     Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant submitted objections with
its reply papers.  A ruling on the
objections would not alter the analysis on the motion, and therefore the Court
declines to rule on the objections.  CCP
§437c(q).
 
e.     Moving
Burden
Many of the facts in Defendant’s
separate statement are supported solely by Plaintiff’s discovery
responses.  These facts include facts 6,
11, 21, 22, 37, and 38.  By placing these
facts in the separate statement, Defendant concedes their materiality.  Because these facts are not established by
competent, admissible evidence, the summary judgment motion is denied.  
 
f.      Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is denied.  Its alternative
motion for summary adjudication is also denied. 

 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   