 Case Number:  24LBCV001602    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Kareron Theus filed this
action against Defendant, Hof’s Hut Restaurants, Inc. for negligence, negligent
training, hiring, and retention, IIED, and respondent superior on 8/01/24.  Plaintiff alleges he was dining in
Defendant’s restaurant and ordered a fish entree.  The dish was named, in large letters, as a
fish entrée, but in smaller letters below a bacon sauce was described.  When the dish arrived, Plaintiff saw the
bacon and explained to the server that he has a severe allergy to pork.  The server returned the dish to the kitchen
and had a new one made; the server ensured Plaintiff that the new dish would
not contain any pork.  The new dish
contained the same sauce, but no bacon. 
The sauce, however, had been simmered with the bacon, which caused
Plaintiff to commence experiencing an allergic reaction.  
 
Plaintiff carries an epi-pen, but
the pen was in his car.  He asked the
server if the restaurant had an epi-pen, and the server indicated it did.  The server returned four minutes later and
said that, unfortunately, the restaurant does not have an epi-pen.  At this point, his friends went to his car to
get his, but his reaction had become severe, such that he was vomiting; he went
to the emergency room as his symptoms, which included fatigue, slurring of
speech, and ultimately loss of consciousness, worsened.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff includes a prayer for
punitive damages in connection with his negligent hiring, training, and
retention cause of action, and also with his IIED cause of action.  Defendant moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages and related allegations.
 
As an initial note, Defendant’s
moving papers, at pages 7-8, argue IIED is not adequately pled.  Defendant did not file a demurrer to the IIED
cause of action.  While doing so would
not have been proper, Defendant also did not move to strike the IIED cause of
action.  The motion to strike is directed
at the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations only.  The IIED cause of action, therefore, will
remain in the complaint regardless of this ruling.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has not
pled facts that rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression as defined by
Civil Code §3294.  Defendant’s server’s
conduct, while clearly negligent, does not rise to the level of despicable
contemplated by the Code.  The motion to
strike is therefore granted.  Because it
does not appear additional facts could be pled to support the prayer, leave to
amend is denied.    
 
Defendant is ordered to file an
answer to the complaint, with the prayer for punitive damages and related
allegations deemed stricken, within ten days.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.