  Case Number:  21LBCV00329    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 On 7/0824, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant.  On 7/16/24, Plaintiffs filed a memorandum of
costs.  The sole item in the memorandum
is $95,000 in attorneys’ fees.  On
7/31/24, Defendant filed a motion to strike the memorandum, correctly noting
that the memorandum of costs permits a party to seek, by way of memorandum,
“attorney fees (enter here if contractual or statutory fees are fixed without
necessity of a court determination, otherwise a noticed motion is required),
which is not the case here.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion, but
appear to misunderstand the purpose of the motion.  The purpose of the motion is not to
adjudicate the right to recover fees (this will be done on 1/23/25, when
Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’ fees is heard), but instead to adjudicate the
right to recover fees by way of a memorandum, rather than a noticed
motion.  
Plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover their fees by way of memorandum. 
The motion to strike the memorandum is therefore granted.  The ruling is without prejudice to
Plaintiffs’ right to recover their fees by way of noticed motion, and the
ruling on this motion has no bearing on the ultimate outcome of the 1/23/25
hearing.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   