 Case Number:  24LBCV00861    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past year,
seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses and motions to
compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases. 
Similar issues are presented on all of the motions, and the attorneys
for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer in good faith in light of
this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues relating to each
case.  The Court’s docket has been
inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon law cases often
taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the
assistance of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on
these discovery motions.  The Court has
ruled on discovery motions relating to PMK depositions in the following lemon
law cases (among others):
22LBCV00586
23LBCV00024
22LBCV00901
22LBCV00761
22LBCV00456
23LBCV00126
21LBCV00261
 
The Court has read and considered
Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326,
331-334, wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of
sanctions against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered
payable to the other party directly.  The
Court finds the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that
does not benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in
connection with discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court
will rule on the motions.  
 
The Court is continuing the hearing
on this motion for one month, to Tuesday, 1/14/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S27 to require the parties to meet and confer in good faith in an attempt to
resolve the issues posed by way of this motion. 
Counsel must review the rulings in the above-listed cases in an attempt
to resolve the issues.  Counsel must not
use rulings issued by other trial courts to assist them in their meet and
confer, as those rulings are not relevant to how this courtroom will rule on
the motions.
 
If Counsel are unable to resolve
all of their issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they must
file a joint statement of items that remain in dispute.  The joint statement must list each discovery
item in dispute, the most current response to that item, and each party’s
statement of why a further response should or should not be ordered.  The joint statement must make arguments
relevant only to the item in dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can
easily and quickly rule on each item. 
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motions off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve
their issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  
 
The joint statement, briefs and
declarations are due at least seven court days prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
As a final note, the Court sees
that there are no future hearing dates on calendar other than this motion.  The Court sets a Case Management Conference
and Trial Setting Conference for ______________________________.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.