 Case Number:  23LBCV02411    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Kirk Cully filed this action against Defendants, Matson
Navigation Co., Sargeant Marine, Inc., Point Shipping Corp., Vulcan Carriers,
Ltd., Sheridan Transportation, and Atlandic Tankships for Jones Act negligence,
unseaworthiness, and maintenance cure and found.  Plaintiff named Moving Defendant Hess Corp.
as a doe defendant in the action.
 
Plaintiff sues for exposure to benzene while working on container ships
in various locations.
 
2.    
Motion to Quash

History of Motion

The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 7/09/24.  At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Court continued the hearing to permit Plaintiff
to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  The
Court will not re-state the entirety of its 7/09/24 ruling by reference in this
order, but incorporates the prior ruling by reference.
 

Supplemental Papers

Plaintiff filed supplemental
opposition on 11/26/24.  Plaintiff argues
(a) in Jones Act cases, the Court has jurisdiction in any state where the
defendant is incorporated, licensed to do business, or doing business, (b) the
Court has specific jurisdiction over Defendant, and (c) Plaintiff has attempted
to conduct jurisdictional discovery but Defendant has objected, and this motion
needs to be continued until after the Court rules on Plaintiff’s pending
discovery motions.
 
Defendants filed supplemental reply
papers on 12/05/24.  Defendants argue (a)
a recent decision makes clear that the Court must rule in Defendants’ favor,
(b) Plaintiff’s requested discovery is not necessary because it is not premised
on the correct jurisdictional analysis, and (c) Plaintiff misstates the law
regarding jurisdiction in Jones Act cases. 

 

Jones Act

Plaintiff argues that the Court, in Jones Act cases, has personal
jurisdiction in any state where the defendant is incorporated, licensed to do
business, or doing business.  He argues
that, because Defendants are registered to do business in California,
imposition of personal jurisdiction is proper. 

 
Defendants correctly note in reply that this is a misstatement of the
cases relied upon.  The cases relied upon
are VENUE cases, not personal jurisdiction cases.  Merely being registered to do business in
California and appointing an agent for service of process does not
automatically subject a corporation to general jurisdiction for disputes
unrelated to its activities in California (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 783 (2016)). The defendant must have substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with the state to be subject to general
jurisdiction (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 100 (2005)).  
 

Hardell v. Vanzyl (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 960

Defendants, in their supplemental reply, contend Hardell makes clear
that imposition of personal jurisdiction in this case is not proper.  Defendants correctly note that the Hardell
case, at page 973, makes clear that general jurisdiction can only be imposed
based on acts that occur between the time of filing of the case and the time of
service of the summons and complaint on the defendant.  Notably, not discussed by Defendants is the
portion of Hardell holding that the Court can also use a look-back period prior
to the filing of the suit for determining whether or not the defendant’s forum
state contacts are continuous and systematic; this is not relevant, however,
because Defendants established, in their moving papers, that they did not have
systematic contacts with California for more than a decade before the suit was
filed.  
 
Plaintiff, at Section C of his supplemental opposition brief, blurs the
line between specific and general jurisdiction. 
Plaintiff contends he can establish jurisdiction by showing Defendant,
through a subsidiary, owned and operated natural gas plants in California in
the 1990s, and products from those plants were sold in state or transported out
of the state on ships like the one Plaintiff was on in 1993.  Plaintiff cites HealthMarkets, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168 to support his
position that these types of contacts can give rise to general
jurisdiction.  However, per the Hardell
analysis, general jurisdiction may have existed in the 1990s, but cannot exist
in 2024 based on acts that were occurring in the 1990s.  
 
Defendants contend Hardell also stands for the conclusion that specific
jurisdiction can only be imposed based on acts that occurred at the time of the
injury, and the acts that give rise to imposition of jurisdiction must be
related to the injury itself.  Indeed,
this is a basic statement of the law re: specific jurisdiction that was cited
in connection with the Court’s original ruling. 
Defendants conclude that, because the ship on which Plaintiff was
stationed in 1993 did not sail to California, there are necessarily not
sufficient contacts with California to support imposition of jurisdiction in
California.  
 
Plaintiff’s theory is that Defendants were creating natural gas
products in California in the 1990s and directing a subsidiary to ship those
products out of California onto various ships, including Plaintiff’s ship,
where he was exposed to benzene from the natural gas products.  Plaintiff has been attempting to conduct
discovery in this regard, and Defendant has thwarted the discovery.  Plaintiff has discovery motions scheduled for
hearing on 1/21/25 and 2/13/25 in this regard. 

 
Neither party cites authority directly on point concerning whether, if
Defendants were engaging in this behavior, it would subject them to specific
jurisdiction.  
 
The Court wishes to consider the discovery motions in connection with
its ruling on this motion.  The hearing
on this motion is continued to 1/21/25, to be heard concurrently with the
scheduled discovery motion on that date. 
Additionally, the hearing on 2/13/25 is rescheduled for 1/21/25, so all
issues can be considered together.  
 
The Court asks the parties to focus their briefing on the issue of
whether Defendants would be subject to specific jurisdiction if they were
shipping natural gas, through their subsidiaries, from California onto ships at
sea, including Plaintiff’s ship.  
 
3.    
Case Management Conference 
There is a CMC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The CMC is also continued to 1/21/25.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   