 Case Number:  22LBCV00206    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Gregg Kirkpatrick filed
this action against Defendants, Paradise Gardens, L.P., Paradise Garden, LLC,
James E. Wolf, and Daniel L. Wayne for breach of contract and related claims
arising out of the parties’ ground lease, pursuant to which the entity
defendants leased a building that Plaintiff owns.  The crux of the complaint is that Defendants
failed to maintain the property in the condition required per the terms of the
lease, leaving Plaintiff with $20 million in deferred maintenance and repairs
that Defendants should have completed while they were leasing the
property.   
 
The complaint includes causes of
action for breach of contract and negligence against the entity defendants on a
direct liability theory and against the individual defendants on an alter ego
theory.  It also includes a cause of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations against the
individual defendants on a direct liability theory.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication by Entity Defendants

Parties’ Positions

Defendants contend they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law
because the parties’ 2017 settlement agreement bars all claims asserted against
them.  Additionally, they contend the
negligence cause of action fails because Defendants did not owe Plaintiff any
duty sounding in tort, as opposed to contract.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He
argues the release does not bar the claims because the claims accrued after the
parties signed the release agreement.  He
contends the claim for negligence is proper because Defendants’ work on the
property caused additional damage to the property.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend Plaintiff’s supporting declarations are
inadmissible.  They contend the opposing
evidence fails to raise a triable issue to establish the release agreement is
not a bar to the claims.  They contend
Plaintiff has failed to show any duty running between the parties that sounds
in tort.
 

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Plaintiff, with his opposition papers, seeks judicial notice of the
cross-complaint filed in NC059205 and Wolf and Wayne’s points and authorities
filed in NC059655.  The RJN is unopposed
and granted.
 

Note re: Evidence

Defendants contend Plaintiff failed to include his evidence in support
of his opposition to the entity defendants’ summary judgment motion with his
appendix of exhibits.  Defendants
therefore ask the Court not to consider the declarations.  The Court finds this result would be unduly
harsh.  Additionally, the Court’s ruling
is based on the purely legal issue finding the asserted claim is for violation
of the surrender provision of the parties’ lease, which could not have been
breached prior to 2017 because it did not occur until 2020.  Thus, regardless of whether the Court
considers the evidence, the motion must be denied.
 

Settlement Agreement

In 2013, the parties litigated disputes relating to their ground lease
and property.  Undisputed fact 8.  The litigation included two court cases
(NC059205 and NC059655), as well as an arbitration (A210633).  Fact 9. 
In 2017, the parties entered into a settlement agreement.  The agreement is attached as Exhibit H to the
Wayne Declaration in support of the motion. 

 
The agreement lists four distinct groups of persons and entities that are
settling disputes.  Those persons include
(a) James E. Wolf, Daniel L. Wayne, and Wolf and Wayne dba Real Property
Services; (b) Mark R. Sawusch and related entities; (c) Paradise Gardens, L.P.,
(d) LB Paradise Gardens, LLC, and (e) Gregg Kirkpatrick and related persons and
entities.  The agreement defined Paradise
Gardens, L.P. as “the partnership.”  The
agreement required the partnership to pay to LB Paradise Gardens, LLC and the
Kirkpatrick parties the amount of $525,000. 
¶3 of the settlement agreement includes a very broad release provision,
which released claims known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, disclosed or
undisclosed, contingent or vested, matured or unmatured, so long as those
claims were or could have been asserted in the first action, the second action,
and/or the arbitration.  The only claims
exempted from the release are claims for breach of the settlement agreement and
claims “arising after the effective date of this settlement agreement.”  
 
Defendants contend all claims asserted in this action could have been
asserted in connection with the prior litigation, and did not arise after the
effective date of the settlement agreement. 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion, argues the crux of this action
is that Defendants did not surrender the premises in good order and condition
at the conclusion of the parties’ lease, which was in 2020, and which
necessarily did not occur and could not have occurred prior to 2017.  Additionally, Plaintiff contends new and
worse conditions on the property came into existence after 2017, which were not
known and could not have been known prior to the parties’ settlement
agreement.  
 
The parties’ ground lease contains a provision that requires the lessors
to surrender the property in good order and condition at the conclusion of the
lease.  Plaintiff’s additional fact 36.  The parties’ lease expired on 12/31/20.  Fact 2. 
Plaintiff contends that, pursuant to Avalon Pacific-Santa Ana, L.P. v.
HD Supply Repair & Remodel (2011) 192 Cal.Ap.4th 1183,
1204-1205, this condition could not have possibly been satisfied until the
lease concluded, and any claim for breach of this provision did not exist until
the parties’ lease concluded.  
 
Defendants do not address Avalon in their reply papers, and do not
meaningfully articulate how Plaintiff could have asserted a claim for failure
to return the property in good order and conclusion of the lease, which
occurred in 2020, prior to 2017.  At a
minimum, there are triable issues of material fact concerning whether Plaintiff
is asserting claims that existed prior to the parties’ 2017 settlement
agreement.  The motion for summary
judgment is therefore denied.
 

Summary Adjudication

Defendants seek summary adjudication of two issues in connection with
their motion.  First, they seek
adjudication of the first cause of action on the ground that they were released
from liability per the parties’ 2017 settlement agreement.  The alternative request for summary
adjudication is denied for the reasons discussed above.
 
They also seek summary adjudication of the second cause of action on the
ground that all allegations at issue in the lawsuit arise from obligations
under the parties’ ground lease and therefore do not sound in tort.  Plaintiff’s second cause of action is for
negligence.  Defendants argue a claim
that sounds in contract cannot give rise to a negligence cause of action.  Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that
Defendants’ negligent repair and maintenance of certain aspects of Plaintiff’s
property caused damage to other elements, such that a claim for negligence is
proper under Aas v. Superior Court (2000) 24 Cal.4th 627, 635.  
 
Plaintiff’s complaint is grounded in Defendant’s contractual obligation
to return the property to Plaintiff in “good order and repair.”  Plaintiff is conflating construction law with
the obligations of a tenant under a lease. 
Construction law, which is detailed in Aas, explains that when a
contractor undertakes to perform contractual duties in a home or other
structure, and does so in a negligent manner that causes damage to other parts
of the structure, the contractor exposes him or herself to tort liability.  By way of example, if the contractor is hired
to repair the windows, but does so in a way that allows for leaking, which in
turn damages the walls and floors, the contractor is not only liable for breach
of contract (with resulting damages of fixing the windows), but also in tort,
with resulting damages for the cost of repairing all subsequent damage.
 
Plaintiff is arguing that, in this case, Defendant’s failure to return
the property in good order and condition caused damage to other parts of the
property.  All of this, however, would be
part of Defendant’s contractual obligation to return the property in good order
and condition.  Plaintiff failed to show
how any non-contractual obligation arises as a result of Defendants’ failure,
and therefore the summary adjudication motion is granted.  
 
3.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment (Individual Defendants)
a.     Parties’ Positions
The individual defendants move for summary judgment on the complaint,
contending all claims against them fail in light of the parties’ 2017
settlement agreement.  They also contend
the first and second causes of action (breach of contract and negligence) fail
against them because they are not PG LP’s alter egos.  They contend the negligence cause of action
fails because any duties sound in contract and not in tort.  They contend the third cause of action
(intentional interference with contractual relations) fails because they are
the entity defendant’s agents and cannot be liable for inducing a breach of
contract, they are immune from liability due to the manager’s privilege, and
they are immune from liability due to the financial privilege.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He
argues the settlement agreement does not bar the claims because the claims
arose after 2017.  He argues there are
triable issues of material fact concerning whether the individual defendants
are PG LP’s alter egos.  He contends the
claims for negligence sound in tort because the individual defendants’ waste on
the property caused additional damage to the property.  He contends ownership and control of an
entity defendant does not relieve a defendant from liability for interference
with the entity’s contracts, and any financial privilege is not absolute.  
 
Defendants, in reply, contend Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of
material fact and their motion must be granted.
 

Request for Judicial Notice

Defendants seek judicial notice of various documents filed in the
parties’ prior litigation as well as various recorded public documents.  The RJN is unopposed and granted.
 
Plaintiff seeks judicial notice of the same documents discussed above in
connection with the entity defendants’ motion, and the RJN is again unopposed
and granted.
 

Evidentiary Objections

The Court therefore declines to rule on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections, as doing so is not necessary to a resolution of the merits of the
motion.  CCP §437c(q).
 

Settlement Agreement 

To the extent the motion is based on the 2017 settlement agreement, the
motion is denied for the reasons set forth above.
 

Alter Ego

Defendants contend the first (breach of contract) and second (negligence)
causes of action asserted against them fail because Plaintiff cannot show the
individual defendants are PG LP’s alter ego. 
 
“In California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine
will be invoked.  First, there must be
such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its
equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
shareholder do not in reality exist. 
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are
treated as those of the corporation alone.” 
Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App 4th 523, 538. 
 
Among the factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are
commingling of funds and other assets of the two entities, the holding out by
one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable
ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use
of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.  Id., at 538-539.  Other factors include inadequate
capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers.  Id., at 539. 
No one characteristic governs. 
The courts must look at the totality of the circumstances to determine
whether the doctrine should be applied. 
Alter ego is an extreme remedy which is sparingly used.  Id.
 
Defendants, in support of their motion, provide facts 27-35.  Facts 27-29 describe Plaintiff’s responses to
Defendants’ discovery requests relating to alter ego allegations.  Fact 30 details Plaintiff’s alter ego
allegations made in his operative complaint. 
Specifically, fact 30 states, “Plaintiff alleges that Wolf and Wayne are
the ‘only managers and only members’ of PG LLC, that PG LLC is the general
partner of PG Partnership, and therefore Wolf and Wayne ‘are the sole
beneficial owners of 100% of the PG Partnership, and have treated that entity
as a mere extension of themselves, and have withdrawn money from the entity in
order to render it insolvent and unable to perform the required maintenance and
repair of the Property.’”
 
Fact 31 indicates PG Partnership was capitalized in 1998 when it was
created.  Fact 32 explains part of the
interest in PG Partnership was sold in 1998. 
Fact 33 indicates PG Partnership has an EIN and filed state and federal
taxes from 1999 to 2020.  Fact 34 states
that PG Partnership has separate assets and ban accounts from the individual
defendants.  
 
None of the facts in Defendants’ separate statement purport to establish
that the individual defendants have not “withdrawn money from the entity in
order to render it insolvent and unable to perform the required maintenance and
repair of the Property,” as alleged in the complaint.  Defendants therefore failed to meet their
moving burden to show they are not PG LP’s alter ego.  
 
Notably, Defendants, in their points and authorities, page 13, argue
Plaintiff cannot show bad faith.  The
only fact Defendants cite in support of their argument is fact 36, which states
that Plaintiff admittedly includes the individual defendants as a means of
enforcing the judgment.  Plaintiff’s
decision to indicate the individual defendants as a means of enforcing the
judgment does not preclude a showing of bad faith.  Defendants had the moving burden to show lack
of bad faith, and they failed to include any facts to make such a showing.  
 
The Court finds Defendants failed to meet their burden to show Plaintiff
cannot establish alter ego liability.  
 

Additional Issues

Defendants also seek adjudication of the second (negligence) and/or third
(interference) causes of action.  The
motion for summary adjudication of the second cause of action is granted for
the reasons discussed above in connection with the entity defendants’
motion.  
 
The final issue is whether the individual defendants can be held liable
for intentional interference with contractual relations.  They argue they cannot, because (a) as
agents, they cannot be held liable for inducing breach of the ground lease, (b)
they are immune per the manager’s privilege, and (c) they are immune per
financial privilege.  
 
i.             
Agent
Immunity
Defendants’ first argument is that they are immune from liability under
the agent immunity rule.  Both parties
agree that the basic rule is that an entity cannot be liable for inducing a
breach of its own contract, and an entity’s agents also cannot be liable for
inducing a breach of the entity’s contract. 
See, for example, Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566,
576.  
 
Defendants, in their moving papers, argue that there is no “individual
advantage” exception to the rule, and any such exception has been
abrogated.  Plaintiff, in opposition to
the motion, argues the exception continues to be legally recognized.  The parties discuss the holding of Mintz v.
Blue Cross of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594 in this
regard.  In Mintz, the plaintiff sued the
administrator of his health insurance plan, alleging the administrator
interfered with the contract between him (the insured) and his insurance
company.  The trial court sustained the
administrator’s demurrer to the intentional interference with contractual
relations cause of action, holding the cause of action was barred by the agent
immunity rule.  The court of appeals
upheld.  Because the ruling is directly
on point, the Court will quote it at length. 
The Mintz Court held:
Mintz points out that he alleged Blue Cross was “acting for its own
financial advantage” when it denied coverage for the RFA,4 and that the
“agent's immunity rule” does not apply when the agents are acting “as
individuals for their individual advantage.” (See Applied Equipment, supra, 7
Cal.4th at p. 512, fn. 4, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 475, 869 P.2d 454;  Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 49
Cal.3d 39, 47, 260 Cal.Rptr. 183, 775 P.2d 508 (Doctors' Co.) [the rule “does
not preclude the subjection of agents to conspiracy liability for conduct which
the agents carry out ‘as individuals for their individual advantage’ and not
solely on behalf of the principal”]; 
1–800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 592, 132
Cal.Rptr.2d 789 (1–800 Contacts ) [“[a]n exception to the agent's immunity, for
conduct undertaken for personal advantage, is consistent with the immunity
rule, because pursuit of a personal interest renders the actor more than merely
the agent of another”].) While Mintz's statement is correct, the “individual
advantage” exception to the agent's immunity rule is of no help to him.
First, the “agent's immunity rule” has no direct applicability to a claim
for interference with contract rights. The rule is simply that “duly acting
agents and employees cannot be held liable for conspiring with their own
principals....” (Applied Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 512, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d
475, 869 P.2d 454.) While the agent's immunity rule “ ‘derives from the
principle that ordinarily corporate agents and employees acting for or on
behalf of the corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the
corporation's contract’ ” (Applied Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 512, fn.
4, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 475, 869 P.2d 454, emphasis added), the rule, on its face,
applies only to claims of conspiracy to commit a tort or violate a statute.
(See, e.g., Doctors' Co., supra, 49 Cal.3d at pp. 41, 45, 260 Cal.Rptr. 183,
775 P.2d 508 [because noninsurer defendants (insurer's retained attorney and
expert witness) were not subject to insurer's statutory duty to attempt to
effectuate a settlement, and were acting merely as agents of the insurer and
not as individuals for their individual advantage, “ ‘they cannot be held
accountable on a theory of conspiracy’ ”].) As the court stated in 1–800
Contacts, “the exception for conduct undertaken in pursuit of a personal
interest or advantage applies only to the agent's immunity rule. It does not
relax the requirement that to be liable for conspiracy to breach a duty, the
defendant must be bound by that duty and capable of breaching it.” (1–800
Contacts, supra, 107 Cal.App.4th at p. 592, 132 Cal.Rptr.2d 789, emphasis
added.) Mintz has not alleged that Blue Cross conspired with CalPERS to do
anything, and hence neither the agent's immunity rule nor its exception *1606
has any literal application in this case. The only question is whether the
representative of a contracting party may be held liable for the substantive
tort of interfering with the contract. The cases answer that question in the
negative. (See  Shoemaker, supra, 52 Cal.3d
at pp. 24–25, 276 Cal.Rptr. 303, 801 P.2d 1054; 
PM Group, supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 65, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 227.)
Second, the conclusion that there is no “financial advantage” exception
to the rule that a corporate agent cannot be liable for interfering with its
principal's contract makes good sense. Every agent, in one way or another, acts
for its own financial advantage when it acts for its principal, because the
agent is compensated by its principal, and conduct in furtherance of the
principal's interest will necessarily serve the agent's interests as well. A
“financial advantage” exception to the sound rule that the contracting party's
agent, like the contracting party, cannot be liable for interference with the
contract, would entirely swallow up the rule.
Third, even if a “financial advantage” exception were applicable to the
rule that an agent cannot be liable for interfering with its principal's
contract, the cases discussing the exception to the agent's immunity rule
demonstrate that merely receiving monetary compensation for its services to the
principal is not enough. As stated in 
Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 802, 834, 32 Cal.Rptr.3d 325 (Berg & Berg ), “[c]ases have
interpreted the ‘financial advantage’ exception to the agent's immunity rule to
mean a personal advantage or gain that is over and above ordinary professional
fees earned as compensation for performance of the agency.” Berg & Berg
involved a statutory provision with exceptions that allowed a conspiracy claim
against an attorney; the exceptions mirrored those carved out from the agent's
immunity rule. The court held the term “in furtherance of the attorney's
financial gain” meant that “through the conspiracy, the attorney derived economic
advantage **432 over and above monetary compensation received in exchange for
professional services actually rendered on behalf of a client.” (Id. at pp.
824, 836, 32 Cal.Rptr.3d 325, emphasis added.) Even allegations of excessive
billing for the services rendered by the attorney did not satisfy the financial
gain requirement of the statute's exception. (Id. at pp. 835–836, 32
Cal.Rptr.3d 325.)
In short, the agent's immunity rule, with its exceptions, applies to
civil conspiracy claims, which this is not. And, even if the “financial
advantage” exception could be applied in the context of a claim for
interference by an agent with its principal's contract, Mintz's allegations
that Blue Cross was “acting for its own financial interests,” and “engaged in
this conduct for the purpose of obtaining financial incentives available to it
under the Plan for keeping plan costs down,” would be insufficient to state the
necessary *1607 economic advantage “over and above” the compensation received
in exchange for Blue Cross's services to CalPERS. (Berg & Berg, supra, 131
Cal.App.4th at p. 836, 32 Cal.Rptr.3d 325.)
 
Plaintiff’s cited cases either pre-date Mintz and/or concern conspiracy
claims.  Plaintiff does not articulate
any argument that would allow his claim for interference to stand against the
individual defendants in the absence of conspiracy allegations between the
entity defendants and the individual defendants.  The motion for summary adjudication of this
cause of action is therefore granted.
 
ii.            
Additional
Issues
Defendants move for summary adjudication of the third cause of action on
other grounds, but the Court declines to rule on those issues because doing so
is not necessary to a resolution of the merits of the motion for summary
adjudication.  
 
4.    
Conclusion
 Defendants’ summary judgment
motions are denied.  The entity
defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the cause of action for
negligence is granted.  The individual defendants’
motion for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations is granted.  The remainder of Defendants’ motions for
summary adjudication is denied.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.