 Case Number:  22SMCV02528    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA
Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates’ Motion
to Strike is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA
Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates shall
file and serve an answer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint within ten (10)
days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA
Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates to
give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
The court
may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
 
Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer
should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally
construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a
reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Law Office of Fari Bari
Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA Law, Inc., Law Offices
of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates (“Cross-Defendants”) move to
strike paragraphs 57, 58, 113, 114, 173, 174, 239, 240, 314, and 315 from
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Farnaz Ayazi (“Defendant”)’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint as irrelevant, immaterial, and improper matter because the
paragraphs are inadmissible character evidence, and the allegations are included
to prejudice the jury.
 
Allegations are not evidence. (See, e.g., Sheard v. Superior Court (1974) 40
Cal.App.3d 207, 212 [“This complaint was unverified and therefore could not
serve as an affidavit”].) The Court will not strike allegations simply because
they may lead to an attempt to introduce evidence which may be subject to an
objection. Further, the allegations provide background information for
Defendant’s claims, and Cross-Defendants provide no other cognizable basis for
striking these allegations.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and
Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc.
APC, and Nejadpour & Associates’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA
Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates shall
file and serve an answer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint within ten (10)
days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).) Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Office of Fari Bari Nejadpour and Cross-Defendants Fari Bari Nejadpour, LA
Law, Inc., Law Offices of LA Law Inc. APC, and Nejadpour & Associates to
give notice. 