 Case Number:  21STCV22388    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV22388




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories, Set Two 
(2)
  Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Frankie Lane 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Raman Dlamini 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Frankie Lane (“Plaintiff”) now moves
to compel responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two and Form
Interrogatories, Set Two, propounded on Defendant
Raman Dlamini (“Defendant”). Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that he served Special
Interrogatories, Set Two and Form Interrogatories, Set Two on Defendant on March 21, 2024. (Fantasia Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)
Responses were due April 23, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) 
 
The proof of service of the discovery shows they were
served electronically on Defendant’s counsel on March 21, 2024. (See Fantasia
Decl., Exh. A.)
 
In opposition, Defendant’s counsel argues the discovery
went to her spam folder and she did not see it until this motion was filed. (Wolf
Decl. ¶ 3–4.)
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has sent
discovery responses prior to this hearing and now only seeks monetary
sanctions. Plaintiff questions that the discovery went to Defendant counsel’s
spam folder since previous discovery sets had been sent without issue. 
 
Therefore, because responses have been served, the motions
to compel are denied as moot. 
 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions
against Defendant and counsel of record representing an hourly rate of $450 and
the $60.00 filing fee. However, the Court finds there is question of whether
Defendant’s counsel received actual notice of the underlying discovery which
contributed to the failure to respond. As a result, given that Defendant’s
counsel declared that the responses went to her spam folder, the Court declines
to award monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motions to compel responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set Two and Form Interrogatories, Set Two are DENIED as moot.
 
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 