 Case Number:  21STCV24221    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
(Set One)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Tentative
The motions are granted.
The requests for sanctions are denied.
Background
Plaintiff Reanita Pardue (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in
this matter on June 30, 2021, and the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on September
7, 2021.  In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges
one cause of action for the wrongful death of her husband, Keith Perkins, due
to the medical negligence of Defendants Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba
Centinela Hospital Medical Center (“Centinela”); Broderick J. Franklin, M.D. (“Franklin”);
and Does 1 through 25.  Centinela and Franklin
filed their answers to the FAC on January 11 and June 9, 2023.
On June 9, 2023, Franklin served Plaintiff with discovery,
including Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One).  (Charles Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. A.)  After requesting and receiving several
extensions, Plaintiff served her responses on September 21.  (Id., ¶ 6 & Exhs. E.)  Franklin contends that the responses are not
code compliant.  After an exchange of
correspondence, the dispute was not resolved. 
(Id., ¶¶ 7-10 & Exhs. F-H.)
On November 7, 2023, Franklin filed these motions to
compel.  Franklin also seeks sanctions.
No opposition has been filed.
Plaintiff failed to appear at a duly noticed Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on April 9, 2024. 
The Court deemed that Franklin has complied with the IDC requirement of
the Standing Order.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Franklin moves to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories Nos. 8.4, 8.6, 8.7, and 10.2. 
The Court has reviewed each of Plaintiff’s objections.  They are OVERRULED.  The motion to compel further responses is
GRANTED.
Franklin moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 57, 61, 90, and 91. 
The Court has reviewed each of Plaintiff’s responses and
objections.  The response to Special
Interrogatory No. 57 is incomplete.  The
objections to Special Interrogatories Nos. 61, 90, and 91 are OVERRULED.  The motion to compel further responses is
GRANTED.
Franklin seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300, subdivision (d).  That
provision of the Civil Discovery Act authorizes the Court to impose sanctions
against a party or attorney “who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories.”  Here, Plaintiff did
not oppose either motion.  Accordingly,
there is no basis to award sanctions under section 2030.300, subdivision
(d).  The requests for sanctions are
DENIED.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Franklin’s motions to compel further
responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide further verified,
code-compliant responses, without objection, to Franklin’s Form Interrogatories
(Set One) Nos. 8.4, 8.6, 8.7, and 10.2 within 14 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide further verified,
code-compliant responses, without objection, to Franklin’s Special Interrogatories
(Set One) Nos., 57, 61, 90, and 91 within 14 days of notice.
The Court DENIES Franklin’s request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Franklin to give notice.