  Case Number:  20STCV30503    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
for Summary Adjudication filed by Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation.
 
TENTATIVE
The
motion is denied.
Background
On August 12, 2020, Maria Velasco Rodas
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Costco Wholesale Corporation
(“Defendant”), Lisa Doe, and Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action for
negligence and premises liability arising out of a slip and fall that occurred on
November 18, 2018, in a Costco store on Century Boulevard in Inglewood. 
The Court does not see an answer to the
complaint in the file. Defendant appeared in this action in November 2021 and
has been litigating the matter.
On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication. On April 3, Plaintiff filed her opposition to
the motion, along with objections to Defendant’s evidence. Defendant filed its reply
on April 8.
Legal Standard
“The purpose
of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)
As to each
cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
850-851.)
A plaintiff or
cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party
opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply
“rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff objects to some of Defendant’s
evidence. Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for
summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court
must “consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have
been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s objection to paragraph 3, lines
1-2, of the Declaration of John K. Flock is SUSTAINED. Lack of personal
knowledge.
Plaintiff’s objection to Exhibit B is SUSTAINED.
Lack of foundation/authentication. Litigation counsel does not have sufficient
personal knowledge to authenticate the exhibit.
Plaintiff’s Objections Nos. 1-2 to the
Declaration of Johanna Diaz are OVERRULED. The Court notes that the declarant is
providing testimony with regard to current practices; the testimony is
admissible, but it does not establish that the store’s current practices (as of
the date of the declaration) were in place and followed on the date of the
accident in 2018.
Plaintiff’s Objections Nos. 3-6 to the Diaz
Declaration are SUSTAINED. Lack of personal knowledge; failure to establish that
the document comes within the business records exception (or any other
exception) to the hearsay rule. 
Plaintiff’s Objection to Exhibit C is SUSTAINED.
Lack of personal knowledge; failure to establish that the document comes within
the business records exception (or any other exception) to the hearsay rule.
Discussion
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for negligence
and premises liability. The basic
elements of a cause of action for negligence and for premises liability are the
same: (1) the existence of a legal duty;
(2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions
for the court.¿¿(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 213; Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)
Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.
(Annocki, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 37.) If a dangerous condition exists, the
property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the
condition reasonably safe for their [customers’] use or to give a warning
adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.” (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores,
Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.) 
“It is well established in California that although
a store owner is not an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner does
owe them a duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably
safe.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “A store
owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions
of the premises open to customers.” (Moore v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472, 476.) “The care required is commensurate with the
risks involved.” (Ibid.) 
“A
plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove the
defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or should
have known of the dangerous condition.” (See Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th
at p. 1206.) “[A] defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law if the
plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous condition existed for at least a
sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary care and inspection.” (Id. at
p. 1207.) “Whether a dangerous condition has existed long enough for a
reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a question of fact for the
jury.” (Ibid.) “The owner must inspect the premises or take other proper
action to ascertain their condition, and if, by the exercise of reasonable
care, the owner would have discovered the condition, he is liable for failing
to correct it.” (Ibid) “A store owner exercises ordinary care by making
reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers...”
(See id. at p. 1205.) “[A]s to business invitees, the owner should
conduct frequent inspections.” (See id. at p. 1207.) 
“Because the owner is not the insurer of the
visitor’s personal safety …, the owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of
the dangerous condition is [in many cases] a key to establishing its
liability.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1206.) “[W]here the
plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition to prove the
owner’s negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that the owner had
notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it.” (Ibid.) “Most
Courts of Appeal hold that a defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law if the plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous condition existed for at
least a sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary care and inspection.” (Id.
at p. 1207.)
Here, Defendant
argues that the undisputed evidence shows, as a matter of law, that Defendant
did not have actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition in its store
(also referred to in the evidence as a “warehouse”).
Plaintiff alleges
that she slipped and fell on a sausage on the floor of the store. (Defendant’s
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 3; see also Complaint, ¶¶
8, 14.) The dangerous condition at issue is the sausage on the floor. 
Disregarding the
evidence as to which objections have been sustained, Defendant presents the declaration
of Johnny Mercado. Mr. Mercado testifies that he is an employee of Defendant
and that he performed an hourly walk/safety inspection of the store on the date
of the accident that began at 3:02 pm and ended at 3:30 pm. (Mercado Decl., ¶¶
1, 3.) He testifies that he “walked every single aisle and areas of the
warehouse,” specifically looking for “potential slipping hazards, including but
not limited to food present on the floor,” and that he “did not observe any
slipping hazards during [the] floor walk.” (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
Defendant has
not, with this evidence and its supporting argument, met its initial burden on
summary judgment of presenting facts that show that one or more elements of Plaintiff’s
causes of action cannot be established. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
That is so for a number of reasons.
First, Defendant
presents no admissible evidence regarding the time of Plaintiff’s accident.
Defendant contends it occurred at 3:43 pm, but the Court sustained the objection
to the evidence Defendant offered to establish the time of the accident. Without
admissible evidence of the time of the accident, evidence that Mr. Mercado
performed a safety walk that began at 3:02 pm and ended at 3:30 pm is not
particularly helpful or probative of any issue before ethe Court.
Second, even
if there were admissible evidence that the accident occurred at 3:43 pm, the
Court, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving
party, would need to conclude for purposes of this motion that the interval of
time between the inspection and the accident could have been as long as 41
minutes. 
There is no simple
benchmark or fixed time period that applies in all cases with regard to the frequency
of inspections. As the California Supreme Court
stated in the landmark case Ortega v. Kmart Corp.:  
“If
the owner operates a self-service grocery store, where customers are invited to
inspect, remove, and replace goods on shelves, ‘the exercise of ordinary care
may require the owner to take greater precautions and make more frequent
inspections than would otherwise be needed to safeguard against the possibility
that such a customer may create a dangerous condition by disarranging the
merchandise’ and creating potentially hazardous conditions.”
"’The exact time the condition must
exist before it should, in the exercise of reasonable care, have been
discovered and remedied, cannot be fixed, because, obviously, it varies
according to the circumstances. A person operating a grocery and vegetable store
in the exercise of ordinary care must exercise a more vigilant outlook than the
operator of some other types of business where the danger of things falling to
the floor is not so obvious.’”  
(Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at pp. 1205,
1210 [quoting Bridgman, supra, 53 Cal.2d at p. 448 and Louie v.
Hagstrom’s Food Stores (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 608.])
“Whether a dangerous condition has existed long enough for a
reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a question of fact for the
jury, and the cases do not impose exact time limitations. Each accident must be
viewed in light of its own unique circumstances.”  (Ortega,
supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1207; see
also id. at pp. 1209-10.)
The Court is mindful that a store owner “must
have a reasonable time to make an inspection in order to discovery the
dangerous condition and correct it.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at pp. 1210-11.)
There are undoubtedly some time periods between inspection and accident that
are so brief that, under all of the facts and circumstances, no fact finder could
draw an inference of constructive notice. (See Girvetz v. Boys’ Market
(1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 831-32 [affirming judgment for defendant
notwithstanding the verdict where evidence indicated that banana or banana peel
was on floor for approximately one-and-a-half minutes].)  
Here, however, given the nature
of the market, and the period of up to 41 minutes between the last inspection
and the accident, there are competing inferences regarding Defendant’s constructive
knowledge that the finder of fact could reasonably draw. (See Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at pp. 1204, 1211-13 [affirming judgment in favor of plaintiff where
evidence indicated aisle in which spill occurred was usually inspected every 15
to 30 minutes]; Zipusch v. LA Workout, Inc. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1281,
1293 [noting that “a 15- to 30-minute interval between inspections at a busy
commercial retail center may lead to an inference of negligence”]; Hale v. Safeway Stores (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 124, 127-28 [time
from inspection to accident estimated to be five to twelve minutes]; Tuttle
v. Crawford (1936) 8 Cal.2d 126, 131 [five to eight minutes].) A reasonable
trier of fact could conclude that the exercise of ordinary care required more
frequent inspections, under these circumstances, than Defendant conducted. Accordingly,
on these
facts, these are issues for the jury to decide.
Third, and
independently, Plaintiff raises a question about whether a 28-minute inspection
of a store as large as a Costco market (or “warehouse”) by a single store employee
is truly a sufficient inspection for potential safety hazards. A reasonable
trier of fact could find that the exercise of ordinary care required a more thorough
inspection, under all of the circumstances, than Defendant conducted and, based
on that finding, draw a reasonable inference of constructive notice.
The Court has
considered all of the admissible evidence and all of the arguments presented by
both sides. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for
summary adjudication, is denied.
Finally, although
it is not clear, it appears that Defendant in its reply brief (and supporting
declaration) may be requesting a continuance of the hearing so that Defendant may
obtain additional evidence in support of its motion. Continuances are available
under certain circumstances for the non-moving party to obtain additional
evidence to oppose a summary judgment motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (h).) The Court is not aware, however, of any statute or case law that
would authorize a continuance for the moving party to obtain additional
evidence. The moving party chooses when to file the motion and must serve all
of its supporting evidence with the motion. (Id., subds. (a)(2) &
(b)(1).) If that evidence is not sufficient to support the motion, the motion
will be denied – without regard to whether some other motion, supported by some
other set of evidence, might have been granted or denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication.
Moving
Party to give notice.