 Case Number:  23PSCV03055    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  H Colindres
v. CalPortland Construction et al., Case No. 23PSCV03055


ORDER ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT


Defendants
CalPortland Construction and CalPortland Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment or,
in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
I.        Background 
Plaintiffs Sylvia Colindres, Elijah
Colindres, Gabrielle Colindres, Makayla Colindres, by and through her guardian
ad litem, Sylvia Colindres, and the Estate of Kenneth Colindres, by and through
its administrator, Sylvia Colindres, (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that Kenneth
Colindres (the “decedent”) was killed on January 17, 2023, when his vehicle
collided head-on with a semi-truck. 
On October
3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
CalPortland Construction and Does 1-100 for (1) wrongful death—dangerous
condition of private property and (2) survival. 
On February
16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein CalPortland
Company was named in lieu of Doe 1.

Pending
before the Court is the motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication filed by CalPortland Construction and CalPortland Company
(collectively, “Defendants”). As explained below, the motion is granted as to
CalPortland Construction because CalPortland
Construction lacks ownership, lease, occupation, or control of Cement Plant
Road, and the motion is granted as to CalPortland Company because
Plaintiffs’ causes of action against CalPortland Construction are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of California’s
worker’s compensation system.

II.      Legal Standard
“A party may move for summary judgment. . . if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).) 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if
all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
“On
a motion for summary judgment[/adjudication], the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) “A plaintiff or cross-complainant
has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
“A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action. . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action. Once the defendant. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)
III.     Discussion
Defendants
move the Court for an order granting summary judgment in their favor and
against Plaintiffs; in the alternative, Defendants seek summary adjudication as
follows:
Issue No. 1: Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action (i.e., for Wrongful Death—Dangerous Condition of Private Property) fails
as to CalPortland Company because it is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction
of California’s worker’s compensation system;
Issue No. 2: Plaintiffs’ second cause of
action (i.e., for Survival) fails as to CalPortland Company for the same reason
as Issue No. 1;
Issue No. 3: Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action fails as to CalPortland Construction because Plaintiffs cannot prove the
necessary element of ownership, possession or control of the subject private
property; and
Issue No. 4: Plaintiffs’ second cause of
action fails as to CalPortland Construction for the same reason as Issue No. 3.
At the
outset, the Court summarily grants the motion as to CalPortland Construction
because it is essentially undisputed that CalPortland Construction “did not
own, lease, occupy or control Cement Plant Road where the [collison] occurred
as of the date of the [collision].” (UMF No. 3.) Nothing proffered by
Plaintiffs in response to this fact has anything to do with CalPortland Construction’s
lack of ownership, lease, occupation, or control of Cement Plant Road. Further,
Plaintiffs expressly state that they “do not oppose the motion as to Defendant
CalPortland Construction” (Opp., p. 2, fn. 1). The remaining analysis thus
pertains only to CalPortland Company.
CalPortland Company
contends that Plaintiffs’ claims against it are barred pursuant to the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule. The California Constitution vests the
Legislature with the power “to create, and enforce a complete system of
workers’ compensation.” (Cal. Const., Art. XIV, § 4). “The Workers’
Compensation Act invests the [Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board] with exclusive
jurisdiction over disputes regarding an employee’s right to compensation or
an employer’s liability. (Lab. Code, § 5300, subds. (a) and (b) . . .).” (Mitchell
v. Scott Wetzel Services, Inc. (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 1474, 1478 [emphasis
added]).
Workers’
compensation liability “exist[s] against an employer for any injury sustained
by his or her employees arising out of and in the course of the employment and
for the death of any employee if the injury proximately causes death.” (Lab.
Code § 3600, subd. (a).) Specifically, workers’ compensation liability exists “in
those cases where the following conditions of compensation concur: (1) Where,
at the time of the injury, both the employer and the employee are subject to
the compensation provisions of this division. (2) Where, at the time of the
injury, the employee is performing service growing out of and incidental to his
or her employment and is acting within the course of his or her employment. (3)
Where the injury is proximately caused by the employment, either with or
without negligence.” (Id.)
“[I]njuries sustained by an employee while going to or from
his place of work upon premises owned or controlled by his employer are
generally deemed to have arisen out of and in the course of the employment.” (Pacific
Indem. Co. v. Industrial Acc. Commission (1946) 28 Cal.2d 329, 336.)
Labor Code
section 3602 provides that “[w]here the conditions of compensation set forth in
Section 3600 concur, the right to recover compensation is, . . . the sole and
exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the
employer.”
The
undisputed facts establish that (1) on January 17, 2020, while driving southbound
on Cement Plant Road in Kern County, the decedent collided head-on with a
vehicle operated by Francisco Aristides Argueta, resulting in the decedent’s
death (the “subject incident”) (UMF No. 1); (2) Cement Plant Road, where the subject
incident occurred, is private property owned, operated, and controlled by CalPortland
Company (UMF No. 2)[FN1]; (3) at the time of the subject incident, the decedent was an employee of CalPortland
Company and was driving on Cement Plant Road toward CalPortland Company’s
Mohave Cement Plant on his way to report for work (UMF Nos. 6 and 7); and (4) at
the time of the subject incident, Cement Plant Road was the only paved road
available to individuals (including employees) seeking to access the Mojave
Cement Plant (UMF No. 8). Based on these undisputed facts, the Court concludes
that Plaintiffs’ two causes of action alleged against CalPortland Company arise
out of and in the course of the decedent’s employment.
Plaintiffs argue
that CalPortland Company should be equitably estopped from claiming the
worker’s compensation exclusivity defense bars Plaintiffs’ claims. However,
subject matter jurisdiction cannot be bestowed upon a tribunal otherwise
lacking such jurisdiction by equitable estoppel. “The only point of jurisdictional concurrency between the [Workers’
Compensation Appeals Board] and civil courts is jurisdiction to determine
jurisdiction. Once determined, jurisdiction is exclusive, not concurrent, and
civil courts have no power to grant relief in matters concerning the workers’
compensation remedy.” (Hughes v. Argonaut Ins. Co. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
517, 527; Scott v. Industrial Acc. Commission (1956) 46 Cal.2d 76, 83
[“If at the time of the accident there was no workmen’s compensation coverage,
then the commission is without jurisdiction to grant relief, and if there was
such coverage then the superior court is without jurisdiction and must leave
the parties to pursue their remedies before the commission.”) “[S]ubject matter
jurisdiction cannot be conferred by waiver, consent or estoppel upon a tribunal
otherwise lacking such jurisdiction.” (Hughes, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at
527). “There is no ‘equitable claim’ exception to the [Workers’ Compensation
Appeals Board]’s exclusive jurisdiction.” (Id. at 531).
The motion
is granted on this basis.[FN2]
In light of the Court’s ruling granting summary
judgment to Defendants, the Court vacates the
Final Status Conference set for August 26, 2025 and the Jury Trial set for
September 9, 2025.


