 Case Number:  23PSCV03386    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  H Chinese
American Parent Association of Walnut v. Hsu, et al., 
Case No. 23PSCV03386
 
ORDER ON DEMURRER
Defendants Joy Shui Hsu, Teresa Chen,
and Walnut High School Chinese American Parent Association, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED, with 20 days’ leave given to amend.
 
I.        Background 
Plaintiff
Chinese American Parent Association of Walnut (“Plaintiff” or the “Association”)
alleges as follows:
          The Association was organized in 2000
as a nonprofit organization to provide educational support to the parents and
students of Walnut schools, including its high school. Since its inception, the
Association has been doing its charitable business under the names of “Chinese
American Parent Association of Walnut,” “CAPA of Walnut,” “CAPA,” “Chinese
American Parent Association of Walnut High School,” and its Chinese
transliteration (collectively, “Association Trademarks”). On May 19, 2023, Joy
Shui Hsu (“Hsu”) filed Articles of Incorporation with the state, forming a
nonprofit organization with the name of “Walnut High School Chinese American
Parent Association Inc.” (“Walnut Parent Association”). Hsu and Teresa Chen
(“Chen”) are the CEO and CFO of Walnut Parent Association, respectively.
          On or about July 5, 2023, during the
opening date of membership recruitment at Walnut High School, the Association
discovered that Hsu and Walnut Parent Association
set up a booth immediately adjacent to the Association’s booth in the library
and used one or more of the Association Trademarks to solicit donations and
membership enrollments. Hsu, Chen, and Walnut Parent Association have advised
visitors that the Association had tax troubles with the state and would soon be
dissolved and that Walnut Parent Association was sanctioned by the state and
Internal Revenue Service. 
          During the
July 5, 2023 recruitment event, the Association obtained a copy of Walnut
Parent Association’s flyer, which promoted a “pay to play” program soliciting
donations with the promise of a premier lunch pass that would enable students
who donated $1,000.00 or more to Walnut Parent Association to cut in front of
other kids in the lunch line. On or about July 10, 2023, representatives of the
Association met with Walnut High School’s principal, Ryan Maine (“Maine”),
during which time Maine advised that Walnut Parent Association was approved by
the Walnut Valey Unified School District (the “District”) and that Tony Torng
(“Torng”), an elected member of the Board of Trustees for District, had
personally introduced Hsu and Walnut Parent Association to him as a new
approved organization at Walnut High School. The Association has not found any
record reflecting that the District approved Walnut Parent Association. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Hsu, Chen, Walnut Parent Association, Torng, and Does 1-25 for (1)
common law trademark infringement, (2) civil conspiracy to commit trademark
infringement, (3) unfair competition (Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et seq.),
and (4) common law unfair competition.

Pending before the Court is Hsu, Chen, and Walnut Parent Association’s demurrer
to the complaint. For the reasons stated herein, the demurrer is sustained,
with 20 days leave to amend.

 
II.      Legal
Standard 
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) 
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
 
III.     Discussion 
Hsu,
Chen, and Walnut Parent Association (hereinafter collectively, “Defendants”)
demur, per Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f),
to the first through fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the
basis that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action
and are uncertain. 
At the outset, the Court notes that Defendants’
demurrer is accompanied by declarations from Hsu, made both individually and on
behalf of Walnut Parent Association, and from Chen. The Court declines to
consider the declarations as improper on demurrer.
          A.       Alter Ego Allegations
Defendants assert that Plaintiff has insufficiently
pled alter ego. The Court agrees. 
“[T]wo
conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked. First,
there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation
and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and
the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable
result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”
(Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)
“To
recover on an alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words ‘alter ego,’
but must allege sufficient facts to
show a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the corporation
is treated as the sole actor.” (Leek v.
Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415 [emphasis added].)
Here,
Plaintiff cites conclusions of alter ego, with no supporting facts. Defendants’
demurrer is sustained on this basis. Moreover, as explained in more detail
below, the individual causes of action are also deficient. 
 
          B.       First Cause of Action (Common Law Trademark Infringement)
To state a claim for common law trademark
infringement, a plaintiff must allege “[1] the existence of prior and
continuous use of a trade name in such a way that a secondary meaning is
acquired, [2] subsequent use of a confusingly similar trade name by the
defendant, and [3] likelihood of confusion in the minds of the public of the
defendant’s business as that of, or as one affiliated with, the plaintiff.” (Sunset
House Distributing Corp. v. Coffee Dan’s, Inc. (1966) 240 Cal.App.2d 748,
753.)
Plaintiff fails to set forth facts establishing
prior and continuous use with secondary meaning. Plaintiff also has failed to
identify when, where, or how the Association Trademarks were employed in a
manner likely to cause confusion among the public. Further, while Plaintiff
alleges that it “has received numerous complaints from the public questioning
who was the real CAPA [Chinese American Parent Association] at Walnut High
School” (Complaint, ¶ 29), Plaintiff has not pled any facts as to when and what
complaints were made.
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action
is sustained.
 
          C.       Second Cause of Action (Trademark
Infringement Conspiracy)
“The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the
formation and operation of the conspiracy; (2) the wrongful act or acts done
pursuant thereto; and (3) the damage resulting.” (Mosier v. Southern California
Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1048.)
Plaintiff
fails to set forth facts suggesting that Defendants engaged in concerted action
for the purpose of infringing on the Association Trademarks. Plaintiff also
fails to allege specific resulting damages. Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained.


          D.      Third Cause of Action (Unfair Competition under Bus. & Prof. Code)
“Business
and Professions Code section 17200. . . establishes three varieties of unfair
competition-acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” (Podolsky
v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 632, 647.) “Because the statute
is framed in the disjunctive, a business practice need only meet one of the
three criteria to be considered unfair competition.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457,
1471.)
“Unlawful business acts or practices within the meaning of the UCL
include anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at
the same time is forbidden by law. A practice is forbidden by law if it
violates any law, civil or criminal, statutory or judicially
made, federal, state or local. By extending to business acts or practices
which are unlawful, the UCL permits violations of other laws to be treated as
unfair competition that is independently actionable. Even if the
violation of another law does not create a private right of action, if the
violation constitutes unfair competition, it is actionable.” (Id. at
1474-1475 [quotations and citations omitted].)
“A business practice
is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public
policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes
injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (Id. at 1473.) “A fraudulent business practice is one which is likely to
deceive the public. . . [t]he determination as to whether a business practice
is deceptive is based on the likely effect such practice would have on a
reasonable consumer. (Id. at 1471.)
Plaintiff fails to allege any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice, for the reasons identified above. Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action
is sustained.


          E.       Fourth
Cause of Action (Common Law Unfair Competition)
“The common law tort of unfair competition is generally
thought to be synonymous with the act of “passing off” one's goods as those of
another. The tort developed as an equitable remedy against the wrongful
exploitation of trade names and common law trademarks that were not otherwise
entitled to legal protection.” (Bank of the West v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1263.)
Plaintiff
fails to allege facts reflecting Defendants’ “passing off” their services as
those of Plaintiff’s. Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
 
IV.     Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in its entirety. The Court grants Plaintiff 20 days’ leave to amend the complaint. (City
of Stockton v. Superior Ct. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 730, 747 [“[L]eave to amend
is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its
face that it is incapable of amendment.”].) 