  Case Number:  24PSCV01993    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Kin
K. Chu v. Dr. Michelle Kim, MD, et al. 
Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s Petition to Compel Arbitration 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the petition to compel arbitration. The Court
STAYS this action pending completion of the arbitration. 
            Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a medical malpractice action. On June 20, 2024, plaintiff Kin
K. Chu (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Dr. Michelle Kim, MD,
Kaiser Foundation Hospital, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1
through 50, alleging one cause of action for medical malpractice. 
On November 1, 2024, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals, and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
(collectively, Moving Parties) filed a petition to compel arbitration. The
petition is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Parties may be compelled to
arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid
agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the
controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner
Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)
A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of
establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy
to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.
Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1060 (Espejo).) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This
is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements
under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to
arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et
seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
DISCUSSION 
FAA v. CAA“[T]he FAA's procedural
provisions do not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause
expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is not whether the parties adopted
the CAA’s
procedural provisions: The state's procedural statutes apply by default because
Congress intended the comparable FAA sections to apply in federal court. The
question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural
provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman
Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal citations
omitted and italics in original.) “[P]revious
cases have held that when an arbitration agreement provides that its
‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law, the [CAA] governs a party's
motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that
its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's
motion to compel arbitration.” (Id., at p. 346.) 
The Court did not find any language in the subject arbitration
agreement indicating that the FAA governs the enforcement of this petition to
compel arbitration. Accordingly, the CAA applies by default. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.) 
Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement and Covered Claims 
            Moving Parties seek to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s medical malpractice claim based on a contract Kaiser
Health Plan, Inc. has with the federal government that provides health care for
federal employees like Plaintiff. (Petition, Exs. A, B, D.) The arbitration agreement
upon which Moving Parties seek to compel arbitration reads as follows: 
If you have any claim or dispute that is not
governed by the Disputed Claims Process with OPM described in Section 8, then
all such claims and disputes of any nature between you and the Plan, including
but not limited to malpractice claims, shall be resolved by binding
arbitration, subject to the Plan’s Arbitration procedures. For information that
describes the arbitration process, contact our Member Service Call Center at
800-464-4000 for copies of our requirements. These will explain how you can
begin the binding arbitration process. 
(Petition, Ex. A, p. 198 of pdf, Ex. B, p. 349 of pdf,
italics added.) 
            By attaching
a copy of the arbitration agreement to the petition, Moving Parties have met
their moving burden to establish the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Petition, Exs. A, B; Espejo, supra, 246
Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to challenge the
validity of the arbitration provision. 
            Plaintiff did not oppose the
petition. Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to challenge the validity of the
arbitration provision. 
The
Court further finds that Moving Parties have shown the arbitration agreement
covers Plaintiff’s claims because it specifically includes medical malpractice
claims. (Petition, Ex. A, p. 198
of pdf, Ex. B, p. 349 of pdf.) 
Accordingly, the Court finds Moving Parties
have established the existence of a valid arbitration agreement that covers
Plaintiff’s claims, and are therefore entitled to an order compelling
arbitration and staying this action pending arbitration. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the petition to compel arbitration, and stays this action pending
completion of the arbitration. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the petition to compel arbitration. The Court
STAYS this action pending completion of the arbitration. 
            Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.