 Case Number:  24PSCV02004    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Gilberto
Guerrero v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request Numbers 1
through 31. 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a lemon law case. On June 21, 2024, plaintiff Gilberto
Guerrero (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (Honda), El Monte Auto Group, LLC, and Does 1 through 10, alleging
causes of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty, violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, violation
of the Song Beverly Act Section 1793.2, and negligent repair. 
On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One. On November 20, 2024, Honda
opposed the motion. On November 25, 2024, Plaintiff replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
subdivision (a), provides that on receipt of a response to a request for
production of documents, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further responses if:
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), further
provides that “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient.
(Minute Order (11/19/24).) 
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, Request Numbers 1 through 31, against Honda.
Plaintiff contends that despite waiving its objections by serving untimely
responses, Honda asserted various boilerplate objections to most of Plaintiff’s
requests for production. Plaintiff contend this evinces bad faith and that
Honda also waived any ESI objections by failing to identify the types or
categories of ESI sources on the grounds of undue burden or expense. Plaintiff
contends the requests regarding repair issues involving the subject vehicle and
similar vehicles are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims based on the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, particularly as it pertains to the issue of willfulness
vis-à-vis the civil penalty available under Song-Beverly. 
Plaintiff further contends that Plaintiff is entitled to all
responsive documents from Honda in Honda’s possession, custody, or control
regarding Honda’s defenses. Plaintiff contends that he seeks documents relating
to Honda’s warranties, that a vehicle’s repair history is relevant to prove
Honda’s willfulness in refusing to compensate the vehicle owner, and that
Plaintiff is entitled to know whether documents relating to refund policies
exist. Plaintiff further contends the prevailing authority makes clear that the
scope of discovery includes documents that relate to similar defects
experienced by other consumers, and that courts routinely compel production of
the documents requested here where the defect at issue is a common one alleged
by consumers, citing Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967 (Doppes) and Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138 (Donlen). 
In opposition, Honda contends its objections are necessary based
on the phrasing of the requests, and that Plaintiff focuses on categories of
information rather than the phrasing of the requests. Honda contends its
objections did not preclude responses and that its responses are
code-compliant, as Honda provided substantive responses to 30 out of 31 of
Plaintiff’s requests. Honda contends it agreed to produce documents in response
to Request Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 16, and that Honda
was unable to comply with Request Numbers 7, 8, 12, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
24, 27, 29, and 31 because Honda did not have responsive documents. Honda also
contends it indicated it had no responsive documents for Request Numbers 23,
25, 26, and 28, but that it would still produce confidential and proprietary
documents which were not otherwise responsive to the requests as worded. Honda
contends the only real request at issue is Request Number 30, and contends that
that request is vague, overly broad, and not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence based on Plaintiff’s use of the terms
“substantially similar” and “complaints made by Plaintiff.” 
Honda then contends Plaintiff is not entitled to the requested
information, as Doppes and Donlen do not stand for the
propositions for which Plaintiff cites them. Honda contends that Plaintiff’s
assertion that he needs this information to prove knowledge or willfulness is
unfounded. Honda also contends that Plaintiff misrepresented Honda’s ESI
objections, as Honda did not assert any objections under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision (d). 
Analysis 
The
Court finds Plaintiff’s motion unavailing, and finds that Honda’s responses are
adequate. Honda correctly contends that it provided substantive responses to
the majority of Plaintiff’s requests by indicating it would comply and produce
responsive documents, or indicating that the requested documents could not be
located after a diligent search. (See generally, Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210.) 
Moreover,
the Court agrees with Honda that the phrasing of Request Number 30 is problematic,
specifically as it pertains to the words, “SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR to complaints
made by Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE…” (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement, Request No. 30.) The Court finds this language vague and overly
broad, notwithstanding the definitions Plaintiff provided, given the various
defects alleged to be at issue in this action. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement,
Request No. 30; Compl., ¶¶ 11-15.) The Court also finds that Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision (d), does not apply because
Honda did not assert undue burden or expense as an objection in its response to
Request Number 30, or any other request. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210,
subd. (d); Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, Request No. 30.) The Court also
finds this request improperly implicates third party privacy rights. (Cnty. of Los Angeles v. Superior Ct. (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 621, 635.) 
Given the Court’s findings, the Court declines to
address the parties’ arguments regarding the applicability of Doppes and
Donlen. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request Numbers 1
through 31. 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.