 Case Number:  22STCV30103    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 22, 2022, Plaintiff Miguel Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants William G Edwards (“Edwards”), Amy Isacson, Isacson Family
Trust, and Does 1-15 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
February 29, 2024, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for
Failure to Serve/Prosecute under Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410,
583.420, subdivision (a)(1), and California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(b) or
alternatively a trial setting conference on September 24, 2024.  The Court advised Plaintiff’s counsel that
the Court intended to exercise its discretion to dismiss the case on September
24, 2024 for Plaintiff’s failure to file a proof of service within two years under
Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.410 and 583.420, subdivision (a)(1). 
On March
21, 2024, Edwards filed a motion to dismiss for delay in prosecution.  On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On May 15, 2024, Edwards
filed a reply. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Edwards
asks the Court to dismiss the case for delay in prosecution. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210 provides: 
“(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a
defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the
time the complaint is filed. 
“(b) Proof of service of the summons shall be filed
within 60 days after the time the summons and complaint must be served upon a
defendant.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 583.250 provides: 
“(a) If service is not made in an action within the
time prescribed in this article: 
“(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no
further proceedings shall be held in the action. 
“(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its
own motion or on motion of any person interested in the action, whether named
as a party or not, after notice to the parties. 
“(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory
and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly
provided by statute.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410 provides: 
“The court may in its discretion dismiss an action for
delay in prosecution pursuant to this article on its own motion or on motion of
the defendant if to do so appears to the court appropriate under the
circumstances of the case. 
“(b) Dismissal shall be pursuant to the procedure and
in accordance with the criteria prescribed by rules adopted by the Judicial
Council.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.410.) 
          Code of  Civil
Procedure section 583.420 provides: 
“(a) The court may not dismiss an action pursuant to
this article for delay in prosecution except after one of the following
conditions has occurred: 
“(1) Service is not made within two years after the
action is commenced against the defendant. 
“(2) The action is not brought to trial within the
following times: 
“(A) Three years after the action is commenced against
the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under subparagraph (B). 
“(B) Two years after the action is commenced against
the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to Section
583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the court
calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice. 
“(3) A new trial is granted and the action is not
again brought to trial within the following times: 
“(A) If a trial is commenced but no judgment is
entered because of a mistrial or because a jury is unable to reach a decision,
within two years after the order of the court declaring the mistrial or the
disagreement of the jury is entered. 
“(B) If after judgment a new trial is granted and no
appeal is taken, within two years after the order granting the new trial is
entered. 
“(C) If on appeal an order granting a new trial is
affirmed or a judgment is reversed and the action remanded for a new trial,
within two years after the remittitur is filed by the clerk of the trial court. 
“(b) The times provided in subdivision (a) shall be
computed in the manner provided for computation of the comparable times under
Articles 2 (commencing with Section 583.210) and 3 (commencing with Section
583.310).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.420.) 
          California Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(e) provides that in ruling on a motion to dismiss for delay in prosecution under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.410-583.430, the court must consider all matters
relevant to a proper determination of the motion, including: 
“(1)  The
court's file in the case and the declarations and supporting data submitted by
the parties and, where applicable, the availability of the moving party and
other essential parties for service of process; 
“(2)  The
diligence in seeking to effect service of process; 
(3)  The extent
to which the parties engaged in any settlement negotiations or discussions; 
“(4)  The
diligence of the parties in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings,
including any extraordinary relief sought by either party; 
“(5)  The nature
and complexity of the case; 
“(6)  The law
applicable to the case, including the pendency of other litigation under a
common set of facts or determinative of the legal or factual issues in the
case; 
“(7)  The nature
of any extensions of time or other delay attributable to either party; 
“(8)  The
condition of the court's calendar and the availability of an earlier trial date
if the matter was ready for trial; 
“(9)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
“(10)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to a fair determination of the issue. 
“The court must be guided by the policies set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130.”

(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1342(e).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Defendant asks the Court to dismiss the case because
Plaintiff did not serve the summons and complaint within 60 days of filing the
complaint.  As authority for this
argument, Defendant cites the Court’s standing order.  The Court’s
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 states: 
“Plaintiff(s) shall serve the summons and complaint
upon defendant(s) within 60 days of filing of the complaint. [Citation.]  Failure to do so may result in the imposition
of sanctions.  [Citations.]  In addition, at a hearing on an Order to Show
Cause re Dismissal (described in Paragraph three above), the PI Hub Courts may
dismiss the case and/or all unserved parties unless plaintiff(s) shows cause
why the case or the unserved parties should not be dismissed. [Citations.]”  (Page 4.) 
          The standing order, in turn, cites California Rules of
Court, rule 3.110(b), which provides in part: 
“The complaint must be served on all named defendants
and proofs of service on those defendants must be filed with the court within
60 days after the filing of the complaint. . . .”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110(b).) 
“If
a party fails to serve and file pleadings as required under [rule 3.110], and
has not obtained an order extending time to serve its pleadings, the court may
issue an order to show cause why sanctions shall not be imposed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110(f).) 
Here,
Plaintiff did not serve the summons and complaint or file a proof of service on Edwards within 60 days of filing the
complaint.  On February 29, 2024, the Court issued an Order to
Show Cause, scheduled for September 24, 2024, at which the Court has
given notice that it may dismiss the complaint if Plaintiff has not served the
defendants. 
Defendant
has not shown any basis for dismissing the complaint prior to the hearing on
September 24, 2024.  The Court denies the
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant William G Edwards’ motion to dismiss the complaint. 
Moving
party is to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.