 Case Number:  23STCV20215    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND
On
August 22, 2023, Plaintiff D.F., a minor, by and through her guardians ad litem
Channing Fleetwood and Raquel Fleetwood, filed this action against Defendants
Bethany Lutheran Church of Lakewood, Mary Fink, Samantha Root, and Does 1-10
for negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, violation of Education
Code section 49001 et seq., violation of Education Code section 220
(discrimination based on disability in an educational setting), intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional
distress. 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff D.F., a minor, by and
through her guardian ad litem Raquel Fleetwood, filed a first amended complaint
against Defendants Bethany Lutheran Church of Lakewood, Mary Fink, Samantha
Root, and Does 1-10 for negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention, violation of Education Code section 49001 et seq., violation of
Education Code section 220 (discrimination based on disability in an
educational setting), intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On
October 11, 2023, the Court appointed Raquel Fleetwood to serve as Plaintiff
D.F.’s guardian ad litem. 
On
January 29, 2024, Plaintiffs D.F.
(“D.F.”), a minor, by and through her guardian ad litem Raquel S. Fleetwood,
and Raquel S. Fleetwood (“Fleetwood”) filed a
second amended complaint against Defendants Bethany Lutheran Church of Lakewood
(“Church”), Mary Fink (“Fink”), Samantha Root (“Root”), and Does 1-10 for
negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, violation of
Education Code section 220 (discrimination based on disability in an
educational setting), intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
On
February 28, 2024, Defendants Church, Fink, and Root (“Defendants”) filed a demurrer
and a motion to strike all references to punitive damages, to be heard on May
1, 2024.  On April 18, 2024, Plaintiffs
D.F. and Fleetwood (“Plaintiffs”) filed oppositions.  On April 24, 2024, Defendants filed replies.  The Court continued the hearing to May 24,
2024. 
Trial
is scheduled for February 18, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to sustain the demurrer to the causes of action for negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. Defendants
also ask the Court to strike all references to punitive damages. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not
have the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the
same parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by
Section 411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
B.   Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 “In passing on the correctness of a
ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to
a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   The second amended complaint 
The
second amended complaint includes the following allegations: 
On
January 30, 2023, ten-year-old D.F. experienced a serious and potentially
life-threatening asthma attack while in Root’s class at the Church’s school.  However, the Church and Root did not provide
any medical assistance to D.F. at any point on January 30, 2023.  D.F. had a serious asthma condition which is a
qualifying disability.  D.F.’s mother, Fleetwood,
was called and asked to bring D.F.’s rescue inhaler to the school.  Fleetwood immediately rushed to campus to take
D.F. the inhaler. 
When
Fleetwood mother arrived at the front office, office personnel indicated they would
take the rescue inhaler to D.F.  D.F.’s
mother trusted that the Church’s office personnel would act diligently to get
D.F. her rescue inhaler.  Fleetwood was
unable to directly communicate with D.F. 
The
Church’s office personnel and Root negligently failed to contact each other
regarding D.F.’s inhaler despite knowing D.F. desperately needed the inhaler to
prevent further damage from her attack. During this time, Fleetwood was forced
to wait. 
D.F.
asked Root repeatedly if she could go check for her inhaler.  Root refused. 
Knowing D.F. had not received her rescue inhaler, Root negligently sent
D.F. to her physical education class, where D.F. was required to perform
physical activity.  D.F. told the
physical education teacher that she still needed her inhaler, but the teacher
said D.F. didn’t look that bad. D.F. was afraid to disobey her teacher and
therefore followed the teacher’s orders to participate in P.E. and run laps
despite suffering agony from the attack and the potential of serious health
repercussions. 
Meanwhile,
Fleetwood was growing concerned about whether D.F. had received her rescue
inhaler. 
Because
D.F. had been forced to exert significant physical energy during her untreated
asthma attack on January 30, 2023, D.F. experienced serious respiratory and
medical complications which required her parents to take her to the emergency
room later that day.  D.F. spent five
days in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at a nearby hospital.  D.F.’s oxygen levels were seriously affected
and could not be stabilized for several days.  
Fleetwood
experienced extreme mental anguish and emotional distress as a result of
Defendants’ conduct leading to D.F.’s hospitalization. 
B.   Defendants’ demurrer 
1.    Fleetwood’s negligence-based claims 
Defendants
contend that Fleetwood lacks standing to bring suit because Defendants’ alleged
misconduct did not harm her.   According
to Defendants, Fleetwood merely asserts the rights and interests of D.F.  Therefore, Defendants argue, the Court should
sustain the demurrer to the claims Fleetwood has asserted against them
(negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, and negligent
infliction of emotional distress). 
In
response, Plaintiffs argue that Fleetwood has standing to assert a claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”) on a bystander theory.  (Opposition p. 6.)  A bystander NIED claim has three elements: (1)
the plaintiff must be closely related to the injury victim, (2) the plaintiff
must be present at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it
occurs and is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim, and (3) as a
result, the plaintiff must suffer serious emotional distress—a reaction beyond
that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness and which is not an
abnormal response to the circumstances. 
(Ko v. Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1144,
1153 (Ko), citing Thing v. La
Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667-668 (Thing).)  NIED liability is limited to “plaintiffs who
personally and contemporaneously perceive the injury-producing event and its
traumatic consequences.” (Id. at p. 1154, quoting Thing, supra,
48 Cal.3d at p. 666.) 
 Plaintiffs rely on the Court of Appeal’s
decision in Ko, where the plaintiffs allegedly saw a vocational nurse abuse
their son.  Although the plaintiffs were
not physically present when the abuse took place, they viewed the abuse in
real time as they watched the livestream of video and audio on their smartphone
from a “nanny cam” located in their home. 
(Ko, supra, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 1146.) The trial court ruled the plaintiffs could not state a
cause of action for NIED because they were not “ ‘present at the scene of the
injury-producing event at the time it occurs and . . . then aware that it is
causing injury to the victim.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Thing, supra, 48 Cal.3d at p. 668.)  The Court of Appeal reversed, holding the
plaintiffs’ “virtual presence” during the child’s abuse through a real-time
audiovisual connection satisfied the contemporaneous presence requirement of Thing.  (Ko, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 1146.) 
The
Court of Appeal contrasted its earlier decision in Ra v. Superior Court (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 142, 144-145 (Ra), where it concluded the plaintiff
could not recover on an NIED claim arising from her emotional distress upon
hearing a loud crash in a clothing store from the area where her husband was
shopping, then learning a sign had fallen on his head. The Court of Appeal held
the plaintiff's “ ‘fear for her husband's safety at the time she heard the loud
bang emanating from the part of the store where she knew he was shopping and
her belief the possibility of his injury was more likely than not are
insufficient as a matter of law to establish contemporaneous awareness of her
husband's injuries at the time of the injury-producing accident within the meaning
of’ ” Thing.  (Ko, supra,
58 Cal.App.5 at p. 1155, quoting Ra, supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 152-153.) 
Here,
Plaintiffs have not alleged facts showing that Fleetwood was present at the
scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurred and was then aware
that it was causing injury to D.F. 
Unlike the plaintiffs in Ko, Fleetwood did not personally and
contemporaneously perceive the injury-producing event and its traumatic
consequences.  Instead, like the
plaintiff in Ra, Fleetwood’s fear for D.F.’s safety and concern about
whether D.F. had received her inhaler are insufficient to establish contemporaneous
awareness of D.F.’s injuries at the time of the injury-producing event. 
The
Court therefore concludes that Plaintiffs have failed to state a claim for NIED
on a bystander theory.  Therefore, Plaintiffs’
bystander NIED claim does not provide a basis for Fleetwood’s standing. 
Plaintiffs
also argue that Defendants owed Fleetwood a duty of care independent of any
duty owed to D.F because Fleetwood gave D.F.’s inhaler to the Church’s staff
and trusted them to act diligently to get the inhaler to D.F.  (Opposition p. 6.)  To support this “direct victim” NIED claim,
Plaintiffs also argue that Defendants owed Fleetwood a duty to keep her updated
on the events concerning her daughter but violated that duty.  (Opposition pp. 6-7.)  
“ ‘ “Direct
victim” cases are cases in which the plaintiff’s claim of emotional distress is
not based upon witnessing an injury to someone else, but rather is based upon
the violation of a duty owed directly to the plaintiff. “[T]he label ‘direct
victim’ arose to distinguish cases in which damages for serious emotional
distress are sought as a result of a breach of duty owed the plaintiff that is ‘assumed
by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises
out of a relationship between the two.’ [Citation.] In these cases, the limits
[on bystander cases ...] have no direct application. [Citations.] Rather,
well-settled principles of negligence are invoked to determine whether all
elements of a cause of action, including duty, are present in a given case.” ’
” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 205-206,
quoting Wooden v. Raveling (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1038; see Potter v.
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984 (Potter) [“[T]here is no
independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.  [Citation.] The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the
plaintiff is an essential element”].) 
The Court therefore considers whether Fleetwood has alleged facts
stating a claim for negligence. 
          Defendants argue that Fleetwood cannot state a claim for
negligence because Defendants did not owe her a duty of care.  To determine whether Defendants owed Fleetwood
a duty, the Court looks at “the seven factors traditionally used by our Supreme
Court to determine the existence of a duty . . . .”  (Lawson v. Management Activities, Inc. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 652, 657.)  These factors are “(1) the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (2) the degree of certainty that
plaintiff suffered injury, (3) the closeness of the connection between the
conduct and the injury suffered, (4) the moral blame attached to defendant's
conduct, (5) the policy of preventing future harm, (6) the extent of the burden
to the defendant, and (7) the consequences to the community of imposing a duty
to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability,
cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.”  (Ibid.) 
Assessing
these factors in light of the facts alleged in the second amended complaint, the
Court cannot say as a matter of law that Defendants did not have a duty to fulfill
their promise to Fleetwood to ensure that Fleetwood’s daughter, D.F., received
the inhaler that Fleetwood brought to the school at Defendants’ request in
response to D.F.’s asthma attack.  (See Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 985 [recognizing potential for negligence liability where “the defendant has
assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the plaintiff
is an object”].)  The Court therefore overrules
the demurrer to Fleetwood’s claims for negligence, NIED on a direct victim
theory, and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.  The Court sustains the demurrer to Fleetwood’s
claim for NIED on a bystander theory. 
2.    D.F.’s IIED claim 
“A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when
there is “ ‘ “ ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” ' ” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050, quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1001.)  “A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when
it is so “ ‘ “ ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.’ ” ’ ” (Id. at pp. 1050-1051, quoting Potter,
supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1001.) “And the defendant's conduct must be “ ‘ “
‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will
result.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at
p. 1001.) 
Defendants
assert that the Court should sustain their demurrer to D.F.’s intentional infliction
of emotional distress (“IIED”) claim because D.F. has failed to plead facts showing
extreme and outrageous conduct. The
Court cannot say as a matter of law that a person does not engage in extreme and outrageous conduct by requiring a child who is experiencing
an asthma attack to participate in strenuous physical activity even though the child has not received the inhaler she requested.  The Court overrules the
demurrer to the IIED claim. 
C.   Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages
allegations 
1.    Punitive damages 
Civil Code section 3294 provides in part: “(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where  it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of  oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may  recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
* * *
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
"(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (c).) 
2.    Defendants’ motion 
Defendants
ask the Court to strike the punitive damages allegations in the second amended
complaint because Plaintiffs have not alleged facts showing that Defendants
engaged in conduct amounting to malice, oppression or fraud.   According to Defendants, their conduct was at
most negligent. (See Spencer v. San
Francisco Brick Co. (1907) 5 Cal.App.126, 128 [“Simple negligence will not
justify an award of punitive damages”].) 
Plaintiffs
oppose the motion, arguing the second amended complaint alleges facts showing
Defendants acted with conscious disregard of the rights or safety of D.H.,
supporting D.F.’s punitive damage claim. 
The
Court cannot say as a matter of law that a person does not act with conscious
disregard of the rights of safety of another when the person requires a child
who is experiencing an asthma attack to participate in strenuous physical
activity even though the child has not received the inhaler she requested.  The Court denies the motion to strike the punitive
damage allegations. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants Bethany Lutheran Church of Lakewood,
Mary Fink, and Samantha Root to Plaintiff Raquel
S. Fleetwood’s bystander negligent infliction of emotional distress claim with
30 days leave to amend.  In all other
respects, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer.  
The
Court DENIES the motion to strike filed by Defendants Bethany Lutheran Church
of Lakewood, Mary Fink, and Samantha Root. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.