  Case Number:  21STCV07734    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


July
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV07734




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Substitute 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Maria Cabriales




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Maria Cabriales (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.31, substituting Lourdes Cabriales, Fermin
Javier Cabriales, Jesus Jose Cabriales, Jose Federico Cabriales, Maria Zoila
Diaz Cabriales, and Hector Hugo Cabriales, Plaintiff’s only children, in their
capacity as successors in interest to the deceased Plaintiff, under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 377.11. No opposition has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in
interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information,
including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and
statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id.,
§ 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be
attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff filed her complaint
on February 26, 2021. Plaintiff passed away on March 14, 2022. A certified copy
of Plaintiff’s death certificate has been attached. (Exh. 1.) The certificate
shows that Plaintiff was widowed at the time of death. The Court finds that Lourdes
Cabriales, Fermin Javier Cabriales, Jesus Jose Cabriales, Jose Federico
Cabriales, Maria Zoila Diaz Cabriales, and Hector Hugo Cabriales have filed
declarations, under penalty of perjury, that they are Plaintiff’s only children
and successor in interest to Plaintiff’s interest in this action. Therefore,
the motion to substitute is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion to substitute Lourdes
Cabriales, Fermin Javier Cabriales, Jesus Jose Cabriales, Jose Federico
Cabriales, Maria Zoila Diaz Cabriales, and Hector Hugo Cabriales as successors
in interest to Maria Cabriales, deceased. 
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 