 Case Number:  21STCV17364    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV17364




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Plaintiff’s Answer to Demand for Production of Documents 
(2)
  Compel Plaintiff’s Answer to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Compel Plaintiff’s Answer to Special Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants
  Angie Enterprises, Inc. and First Bargain, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Angie Enterprises,
Inc. and First Bargain, Inc. (“Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiff Olga Ochoa
(“Plaintiff”) to serve verified responses, without objections, to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Defendants seek monetary sanctions. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendants served Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff on January
18, 2023. (Gates Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Plaintiff served responses without a
verification on June 1, 2023.[1] (Id.
¶ 4, Exh. B.) The responses contain objections and substantive responses.
Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not served verifications for the
discovery. It appears that extensions were unilaterally provided until April 3,
2024. (Id., Exh. C.)
 
When hybrid responses (objections and responses) have been served, the
responses that contain only objections do not require a verification (See Food
4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651,
657.) As to the substantive responses, “[t]he omission of the verification in
the portion of the response containing fact-specific responses . . . renders
that portion of the response untimely and therefore only creates a right to
move for orders and sanctions . . . as to those responses but does not result
in a waiver of the objections made.” (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc., supra,
40 Cal.App.4th at 657–58.)  
 
Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿
 
Therefore,
because verifications to the responses have not been served, they are
tantamount to no response at all. Moreover, as to the responses that are only
objections, it appears those objections were untimely and therefore waived.
Accordingly, the motions to compel are granted.
 
Defendants also
requests $720 in monetary sanctions for each of the three motions, against Plaintiff
and counsel of record. This represents an hourly rate of $165 and the $60
filing fee. (Gates Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff
has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive given the
type of motion, lack of opposition, and the fact counsel can appear at the
hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in
the total amount of $922.50 (1.5 hour of attorney time, plus the filing fee, for
each motion). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motions to Compel Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories,
Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff Olga Ochoa shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 15 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $922.50.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendants within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendants shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV17364




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Olga Ochoa’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Olga Ochoa’s (Plaintiff) counsel of
record, Bradley S. Wallace, Esq. and The Wallace Firm, PC (Counsel), moves to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “Attorney and client have a conflict
of interest that precludes further representation of client. There has been a
break down in the attorney client relationship that precludes further
representation. Attorney is unable to represent client as a result of this
breakdown and conflict. Due to the nature of the breakdown and conflict,
attorney is precluded from disclosing the exact nature of the breakdown and
conflict in this Declaration [California Rules of Professional Conduct
3-1700[a] - attorney withdrawal must not prejudice client] but will discuss the
nature of the conflict with the court in camera if so required.” (MC-052.) The Court finds this is a
valid reason for withdrawal. (See CRPC 1.16.) 
 
            Counsel has provided information for
all future proceedings in this case and served notice to all parties in the
matter. However, the Court notes that the final status conference is set for
July 17, 2024, and trial is set for August 1, 2024. The Court notes that a
motion to continue was filed by Defendants on May 31, 2024 and is set for July
23, 2024.[2] No
opposition has been filed. Without a continuance of the trial date, the Court
finds that relieving counsel will result in prejudice to Plaintiff.
 
            Accordingly, given the lack of
opposition to the motion to continue trial, the Court advances and vacates the
hearing date on the motion and grants a continuance. In light of the new trial
date, the Court grants the motion to be relieved.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to relieve
counsel.  Counsel must file an amended
proposed order with the new dates within 5 days and serve Plaintiff. Counsel
must also file a proof of service of the signed amended proposed order within
10 days. Counsel will remain as counsel of record until the proof of service is
filed.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to continue trial. The hearing on the
motion to continue trial is advanced and vacated.
 
Trial is continued to January 23, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 9, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


