 Case Number:  21STCV40129    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   April
2, 2024                                       
 
CASE NAME:           Jackie Subeck v. Lemonade Holdings, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV40129

 
MOTION FOR ORDER GRANTING LEAVE TO SERVE SUMMONS AND
CROSS-COMPLAINT UPON HEY JACKPOT, LLC THROUGH THE CALIFORNIA SECRETARY OF STATE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lemonade Holdings, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of March 27, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Granting leave to serve the Summons and Cross-Complaint upon Hey Jackpot
LLC by serving the California Secretary of State.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for an Order Granting leave to serve the Summons and Cross-Complaint upon Hey
Jackpot LLC by serving the California Secretary of State is DENIED without
prejudice or continued.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On November 1, 2021, Plaintiff Jackie Subeck (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Lemonade Holdings, LLC; Door Number Six,
LLC; Sholom Goodman; Freddy Braidi; and Kerim Ortanca (Defendants) with two
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, and (2) Promissory Estoppel. 
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff and Defendants entered
an agreement for purchase of sale of 80% of the entity DN6. Plaintiff alleges
the agreement included a fee schedule for consulting payments. Plaintiff
alleges she has only received two payments.
 
On December 9, 2022, Defendant Lemonade Holdings LLC (Lemonade)
moved for leave to file a Cross-Complaint against Jackie Subeck; Hey Jackpot,
LLC; LZ Holdings, LLC; and Lund Strategic Alliance LLC, which the court granted
on June 1, 2023. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Lemonade filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (FACC) with three causes of action for: (1) Declaratory Relief;
(2) Material Breach of Written Agreement; and (3) Deceit in Inducement of
Purchase Agreement. 
 
According to the FACC, Lemonade paid the purchase price for
DN6 and fully performed under the Purchase Agreement. Lemonade alleges that the
parties agreed to amend DN6’s operating agreement. Lemonade alleges that Cross-Defendant
Subeck refuses to execute the Revised Operating Agreement thereby repudiating
the Consulting Agreement and the other Cross-Defendants are aiding and abetting
Subeck.
 
On December 18, 2023. Lemonade filed the instant motion.
 
On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Jackie
Subeck filed a demurrer with motion to strike as to the FACC.
 
On January 17, 2024, the court held a hearing on Lemonade’s
motion for order granting leave to serve Cross-Defendant Hey Jackpot, LLC
through the California Secretary of State. The court granted leave for Lemonade
to file a Second Amended Cross-Complaint and continued the hearing on the
instant motion to April 2, 2024.
 
On March 11, 2024, Lemonade filed a Second Amended
Cross-Complaint.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Lemonade’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to
Exhibits 1 and 2. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (h); see Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the
foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of
public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App.
5th 389, 400.)
 
Service
of LLC via California Secretary of State
 
California Corporations Code § 17701.16 provides for service
of limited liability companies (LLC). An LLC may be personally served. (Cal.
Corps. Code § 17701.16(b).) “If an agent for service of process . . . cannot
with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for personal
delivery of the process, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of
the court that process . . . cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon
the designated agent by hand . . . the court may make an order that the service
shall be made upon a domestic limited liability company . . . by delivering by
hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of
State’s office in the capacity of assistant or deputy . . . .” (Cal. Corps.
Code § 17701.16(c).) Process in this manner contemplates inability to serve by
hand pursuant to Cal. Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 415.10(a)
[personal delivery], 415.20 [substitute service], or 415.30(a) [service by mail
with a notice and acknowledgment of receipt]. (Ibid.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Lemonade contends that it has diligently attempted personal
service on Hey Jackpot, LLC but has been unable to personally serve the
registered agent, Jackie Subeck, at the address provided on Jackpot’s Statement
of Information. Lemonade has not filed any updated briefing indicating service
attempts of the Second Amended Cross-Complaint. There is no opposition as of March
27, 2024.
 
Here, Lemonade has not demonstrated reasonable diligence
warranting service on the California Secretary of State. While Lemonade has
demonstrated reasonable diligence with inability to personally serve and likely
to effect substituted service, as indicated in the Proof of Non Service by Mr.
Rafiquzzaman, Lemonade has not indicated it attempted service by mail with
notice and acknowledgement of receipt pursuant to CCP § 415.30(a). Lemonade
began service attempts on September 21, 2023. (Exhibit 2.) There were five
total attempts spanning a three week period. (Ibid.) Lemonade filed this declaration of diligence on November 3,
2023. (Sofris Decl. ¶ 9.) Lemonade subsequently filed the instant motion 45
days later. Therefore, the court is not persuaded that Lemonade is unable to
effect service by mail with a notice and acknowledgment of receipt.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Lemonade’s motion for an
order granting leave to serve Hey Jackpot, LLC via the California Secretary of
State without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for an Order Granting leave to serve the Summons and Cross-Complaint upon Hey
Jackpot LLC by serving the California Secretary of State is DENIED without
prejudice or continued to April 25, 2024 at 9:00 am.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              April 2, 2024                           __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 