  Case Number:  21STCV06984    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   April
2, 2024                                       
 
CASE NAME:           Ana Gonzalez v. ADB Global Trade LLC,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV06984

 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Specially-Appearing
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez,
individually and as Successor-in-Interest to Victor Gonzalez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Reconsideration
of the court’s prior ruling Quashing Service of Summons on Specially-Appearing
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 23, 2021, Plaintiffs Victor Gonzalez and Ana
Gonzalez (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint with six causes of action for: (1)
Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability –
Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment, (5) Breach of Implied Warranties,
and (6) Loss of Consortium.
 
On March 22, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint.
 
On November 21, 2021, the court appointed Ana Gonzalez as
the Successor-In-Interest of her deceased husband Victor Gonzalez.
 
On November 1, 2022, Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez, individuals and
as Successor- In-Interest to Decedent Victor Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed a
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) for survival, wrongful death and loss of
consortium and also for five causes of action: (1) Negligence, (2) Strict
Liability – Warning Defect, (3) Strict Liability – Design Defect, (4)
Fraudulent Concealment, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.
 
According to the SAC, Decedent Victor Gonzalez (Decedent)
was exposed to products at work that contained silica, metals and other toxins
which caused his silicosis and his death. Decedent worked with granite, marble,
stone, and artificial stone counters from 1988 to 2019. Decedent died on
September 13, 2021. 
 
On October 12, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant
Consentino Group, S.A. (Cosentino) filed a motion to quash service of summons
which the court GRANTED on December 5, 2023. 
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
reconsideration. 
 
On March 19, 2024, Cosentino filed an opposition. 
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply (labeled as a
supplemental memorandum of points and authorities). 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1008 provides, in pertinent part:  
 
“(b) A party who originally
made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or
granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the
same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it
shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on an ex parte motion.  
 
(c) If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order.
…
 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subds.
(b), (c), (e).)  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff requests the court to exercise its discretion to
reconsider its prior ruling granting Cosentino’s motion to quash service of
summons or, alternatively, that it should reconsider its prior ruling in light
of Division 4’s and Division 7’s denial of two separate writ applications by Cosentino
as constituting new law.[1]
 Among other arguments, Cosentino argues
that the court is not bound by the unpublished orders issued by the Court of
Appeal in other cases.[2]
 
“An appellate decision published during an action’s pendency
may be a change of law under section 1008, subdivision (c), and requires a
trial court to reconsider its earlier ruling if the decision materially changed
the law.” (State of California v.
Superior Court (Flynn) (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 94, 100 (Flynn).) “[D]enial of a writ petition does not establish law of the
case unless the denial is accompanied by a written opinion following the
issuance of an alternative writ.” (Kowis
v. Howard (1992) 3 Cal.4th 888, 891 (Kowis).[3]) When the Court
of Appeal summarily denies a writ petition with a brief supporting station, it
does not decide a cause. (Id. at p.
894.) Indeed, “[a] short statement or citation explaining the basis for the summary
denial does not transform the denial into a decision of a cause entitled to law
of the case effect.” (Id. at p. 895.)

 
Here, there is no new law warranting reconsideration of the
court’s prior ruling under CCP 1008(b) and the court declines to exercise its
discretion to reconsider its prior ruling under CCP 1008(c). First, as noted in
Kowis, the two summary writ denials
identified by Plaintiff are not the law of the case in their respective cases.
(Kowis, supra, at p. 893-895.)
Second, even if they were, the court is unaware of authority implicating denial
of a writ petition in a separate case as binding on another case.[4] As such,
Plaintiff has not identified new law impacting the court’s prior ruling
granting Cosentino’s motion to quash.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion for Reconsideration is
DENIED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             April
2, 2024                           __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


