  Case Number:  22BBCV01270    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 24, 2024

MOTION
TO CHALLENGE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01270

 



MP:  


The City of Los Angeles (Defendant)


 




RP:  


Pacific
  Bell Telephone Company dba AT&T (Defendant/Applicant)


                  



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is a
personal injury action in which Cathy Feindel (Plaintiff) seeks damages for
falling on the sidewalk near 11942 Saticoy Street, North Hollywood, California
91605. Plaintiff named as defendants the City of Los Angeles (the City), the
County of Los Angeles (the County), Pacific Bell Telephone Company dba AT&T
(PacBell), and Lissett Avila & Elvys A. Martinez (Property Owners).
Plaintiff alleges the sidewalk was fractured, sunken, and dipped which caused
her to fall and break her ankle. Plaintiff further alleges that the sidewalk in
the area surrounded a manhole cover owned and installed by PacBell. 
 
PacBell
and Plaintiff appear to have reached a settlement and seek a Determination of
Good Faith Settlement (Application.) The City now moves to contest the
settlement on the grounds that it fails to meet the criteria for determining
good faith under C.C.P. § 877.6 and Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates. PacBell opposes and the City replies.  
 
On April
5, 2024, the matter came on for hearing. The Court, having heard argument from
both parties, determined that additional information was required to issue its
final ruling. Accordingly, the motion was continued to April 24, 2024 and the
parties were ordered to submit additional briefing. Having reviewed the
supplemental briefs and declarations submitted by the parties, the Court now
issues this ruling.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under C.C.P.
§ 877.6, “[a] determination by the court that [a] settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (C.C.P. § 877.6(c).) “The party asserting the lack of good
faith has the burden of proof on that issue.” (C.C.P. § 877.6(d).)
 
C.C.P. §
877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its
aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s
dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the
parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement). (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 494.) 
 
In Tech-Bilt,
the California Supreme Court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement was made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Id. at
pp. 498-501.) “Practical considerations obviously require that the [trial court’s]
evaluation [of the settlement] be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.” (Id. at p. 499.)
 
Substantial
evidence showing the nature and extent of the settling defendant’s liability is
required. Without such evidence, a “good faith” determination is an abuse of
discretion. (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348; see Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 822, 834 [attorney’s declaration re settling defendant’s liability
insufficient where he failed to provide specific supporting facts or expert
opinion].)
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to demonstrate, if
he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of [Section
877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) “The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counter affidavits filed in response, or
the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (C.C.P.
§ 877.6(b); see also City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
PacBell applies for a determination
of good faith settlement between themselves and Plaintiff. The agreement
requires PacBell to pay $20,000 in settlement of Plaintiff’s claims against
them. (App., Kadomatsu Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
Proportional Liability 
 
The Court first addresses
whether PacBell has shown substantial evidence to support its critical
assumption as to its liability. Here, because Plaintiff’s action sounds in
negligence, critical factors in assessing PacBell’s liability are PacBell’s
duty to Plaintiff and any breach of that duty by PacBell. The City argues that
PacBell has offered no substantial evidence supporting the claim that they were
not liable. The City’s argument that PacBell must offer evidence of “good faith”
remains salient as per Mattco. 
 
In reviewing the evidence
offered both in the motion and PacBell’s opposition, the Court is satisfied
that PacBell has shown key information necessary to support its application.   PacBell’s
evidence, which shows that the City received and responded to several Sidewalk
Repair Requests prior to the incident, is persuasive with the Court. PacBell
submits Sidewalk Repair Requests dated May 10, 2018, December 19, 2018, and
August 30, 2022. (Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. D. Special Interrogatories Nos. 47, 49,
72, 73, 74.)  Additionally, the City appears
to have performed a small asphalt repair on the location prior to the incident.
(Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. D. Special Interrogatories Nos. 19 and 20, 30.) These
showings are strongly indicative of a duty owed by the City to maintain the
sidewalk, rather than primarily PacBell. 
 
PacBell also offers the declaration
of Stavros Chrysovergis (Chrysovergis), a geological scientist and civil
engineer. Chrysovergis states that PacBell installed a utility vault and
manhole cover at the location around 1979. (Chrysovergis Decl. Exh. A.) Chrysovergis
states, based on his personal inspection of the location, that the failure of
the sidewalk around the manhole cover was not due to PacBell’s facility or
installation of the manhole/vault. (Chrysovergis Decl. ¶ 12.) Chrysovergis
instead posits that the sinking sidewalk was caused by a sudden condition such
as water source which eroded the soil beneath the sidewalk. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 15.) Chrysovergis points to excavations in 2014 between a nearby water meter
and fire hydrant as the likely culprits of the erosion. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 17, Exh. E.) 
 
In contravention of PacBell’s
argument, the City offers the declaration of Arnold A. Rodio (Rodio), a
licensed plumbing contractor. Rodio states that based on his own site
inspection, the collapse of the sidewalk is attributable to improper compaction
of the soil around the PacBell vault when it was installed. (Rodio Decl.
¶ 6.) Rodio states that over time water would seep into the improperly
compacted soil and create a void under the sidewalk. (Id.) 
 
The Court notes that Chrysovergis
argues Rodio’s conclusion to be incorrect. Chrysovergis states that failure to
properly compact the soil would result in the sidewalk sinking almost
immediately, not 40 years after the vault was installed. (Chrysovergis Decl.
¶ 13.) 
 
PacBell argues that the
City has admitted it was responsible for maintaining the sidewalk at the
location in a condition safe for public use. (Kodamatsu Decl., Exh. E, RFA No.
12.) PacBell’s argument appears to be that the City has admitted ultimate or sole
responsibility in this matter. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive.
PacBell’s argument ignores the City’s responses to RFAs which ask the City to
admit (1) that they created the dangerous condition, (2) that they maintained
exclusive right to control the location, (3) that they were responsible for
repairing the sidewalk, and (4) that they were aware of the dangerous condition
and did nothing to repair the sidewalk. (Exh. E, RFA Nos. 7, 2, 14, 15-17.) The
City denied all of these admissions, indicating that the City has not admitted
sole or even primary responsibility for the condition of the sidewalk. 
 
The Court finds the
existence of the Sidewalk Repair Requests and the declaration of Chrysovergis
serve as substantial evidence supporting PacBell’s theory of liability. The
Court is not determining whether PacBell or the City bore sole
responsibility to maintain the sidewalk. Nor is the Court determining the exact
percentage of liability borne by both parties. Instead, the Court is
determining whether PacBell has provided substantial evidence in concert with its
theory of potential liability. 
 
PacBell has presented
evidence indicating that their liability was partial and, in many ways, smaller
than that of the City and other defendants. This is not to say the Court’s
determination here is dispositive of causation at trial or any other point of
the case. (See Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 894, fn. 11 [ holding that any finding or determinations made on
contested issues of liability are tentative and solely for the purpose of
evaluating the food faith of the proposed settlement.].) Furthermore, the
proximity of the sidewalk defect to the manhole cover and underground vault is
consistent with a jury finding PacBell more than nominally at fault in the
case. 
 
Tech-Bilt Argument 
 
The Court will next address
the City’s argument that the Tech-Bilt factors are unsatisfied here. As
previously stated, the Tech-Bilt factors need not all be present for the
Court to determine the settlement was in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors
are guidelines for determining good faith, not requirements that need to be
exhaustively proved by the party applying for a determination. This is
particularly relevant as to the City’s claim that PacBell has not included any
information as to their financial condition or insurance policy limits. This is
an insignificant factor for the Court. 
It is commonly known that PacBell is a large well-funded
corporation.   For this type of case, insurance
coverage is of little concern to the Court in determining a good faith
settlement. The Court does not believe that as a defendant, PacBell would be
unable to pay any monetary judgment based on the facts underlying this case and
apportionment of fault.  
 
Rough Approximation of
Damages
 
Any application of the
first Tech-Bilt factor requires the Court to make a rough approximation
of Plaintiff’s total recovery should the matter go to trial.
 
The City’s substantial
argument contends that the settlement is grossly disproportionate to the amount
of damages plaintiff claims. Plaintiff asserts damages “in excess of $25,000,” as
reflected in her Claim for Damages filed with the City of Los Angeles on
September 6, 2022. (Mot. Exh. A). 
Initially, the City’s motion only referenced Plaintiff’s damages as
stated in a medical bill from St. Joseph Medical Center for $62,000. (Mot. Exh.
A.).  The City also asserted that the Property
Owner has already settled a portion of the case for $300,000, which far exceeds
the medical information that was provided. 
 
The Court finds the City has shown that the evidence before
the Court was insufficient to roughly approximate Plaintiff’s damages. As such,
the Court was unable to determine if a $20,000 settlement by a partial
tortfeasor was appropriate, especially in light of another defendant having
settled for $300,000. Given the situation, the Court felt further briefing was
necessary and continued the motion to allow for the parties to submit further
evidence of Plaintiff’s potential damages. 
PacBell now submits the declaration of its counsel attesting
to Plaintiff’s current and anticipated damages. PacBell states that Plaintiff’s
current damages, according to her discovery responses, are as follows:
1)    
City of Los Angeles Fire Department $2,002.00 
2)    
Buena Vista Anesthesia Medical Group $1,380.00 
3)    
Providence St. Joseph Medical Center $62,217.46 
4)    
Renaissance Imaging Medical $248.00 
5)    
Burbank Emergency Medical Group $996.00 
6)    
Orthopedic Surgery Specialist $11,262.50 
7)    
Back 2 Health Physical Therapy $3,655.00
8)    
Samimi Orthopedic Specialist Unknown 
9)    
Precise Imaging $2,200.00 
Total: $83,960.96
(Kadomatsu Decl. ¶ 4.) 
PacBell states that the above
damages are in connection with the initial incident and Plaintiff’s undergoing
Open Reduction Internal Fixation surgery at Providence St. Joseph Medical.
(Kadomatsu Supp. Decl. ¶ 4.) These amounts also include Plaintiff’
attendance at 20 sessions of physical therapy. (Id.) PacBell’s
declaration further attests that, due to lingering pain, Plaintiff has been
evaluated for PRP injections as well as the possibility of surgical
intervention to excise bone fragments in her knee and repair her patellar
tendon. (Id.) No estimations are included with these potential
treatments as PacBell states they received no estimate from Plaintiff. PacBell
also states that Plaintiff has consulted with a plastic surgeon regarding the
removal of a scar on her knee that would total $12,000. (Kadomatsu Supp. Decl.
¶ 6.) Lastly, PacBell offers that it had evaluated the case somewhere in
the range of $250,000-$300,000. (Kadomatsu Supp. Decl. ¶ 8.) 
The Court also notes that,
although PacBell appears to possess documents and discovery responses from
Plaintiff, they remain unattached to their supplemental briefing. If Plaintiff
is claiming damages beyond economic damages, the Court is unaware of what they
are. Further, PacBell is without explanation as to why this information was not
included in their opposition given that it was clearly in their possession at
the time.  
From the information now
submitted it appears to the Court that Plaintiff’s damages would far exceed the
$62,000 initially claimed by PacBell. While some of these damages are related
to emergency treatment, the vast majority appear to stem from the initial
surgery (i.e. imaging, orthopedic surgery specialist, physical therapy). The
Court notes this because it appears likely that Plaintiff will have to undergo
further surgery, thus incurring all of these expenses at least once more.
Generously assuming that the secondary surgery mirrors the cost of the first,
Plaintiff’s total damages related to surgery alone would exceed $150,000.  
Having reviewed the supplemental
submissions of both PacBell and the City, the Court finds that PacBell has not
produced substantial evidence that its settlement with Plaintiff qualifies for
a determination of a good faith settlement. The Court notes that this is a term
of law and is not opining that the parties acted with bad faith as against any
other party or with any malicious intent. 
The Court finds PacBell has shown that its liability may be limited at
trial, but it has not shown that its liability would be substantially less than
that of the City or the property owners or that the proposed settlement is in
line with an appropriate settlement discounting for the uncertainty of a trial.

After further briefing, the Court
is presented with facts stating that (1) Plaintiff’s medical specials alone far
exceed the settlement amount, (2) the property owners have settled for
substantially more than PacBell, and (3) Plaintiff’s other damages are unknown
to either Defendant. Given this information and the Court’s experience with
similar litigation, the Court finds the settlement amount of $20,000 is
incongruent with PacBell’s proportional liability such that the settlement
cannot be said to have been made in good faith. 

Accordingly, the Motion to Challenge
the Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. The Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of Los
Angeles’s Motion to Challenge Good Faith Settlement
came on regularly for hearing on April 24, 2023, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
 
THE APPLICATION FOR
DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE COURT SETS THE
FOLLOWING DATES:  STATUS CONFERENCE RE
MEDIATION: NOVEMBER 6, 2024 AT 9:00 AM; IN-PERSON FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE: FEBRUARY
6, 2025 AT 10:00 AM; JURY TRIAL: 
FEBRUARY 10, 2025 AT 10:30 AM
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CITY OF LOS
ANGELES TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: April
24, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 