


[1]              At
trial, Plaintiff did not correlate the unpaid invoices to an existing contract.
In fact, both parties disregarded the scope of work set forth by the insurance
company to remodel the residence outside the scope of the contractual work. 
 


[2]              Despite Plainitff’s repeated failure
to support his motion with the necessary evidence, the court unearthed Invoices
#1000, #1001, #1002 and #1003, which were attached as Exhibits 4-7 to Hayes’
declaration filed February 25, 2021 in support of Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication. 


[3]           Civil Code § 8118
provides as follows:
 
(a)           Proof that
notice was given to a person in the manner required by this part shall be made
by a proof of notice declaration that states all of the following:
(1)           The type or
description of the notice given.
(2)           The date, place,
and manner of notice, and facts showing that notice was given in the manner
required by statute.
(3)           The name and
address of the person to which notice was given, and, if appropriate, the title
or capacity in which the person was given notice.
(b)           If the notice is
given by mail, the declaration shall be accompanied by one of the following:
(1)           Documentation
provided by the United States Postal Service showing that payment was made to
mail the notice using registered or certified mail, or express mail.
(2)           Documentation
provided by an express service carrier showing that payment was made to send
the notice using an overnight delivery service.
(3)           A return
receipt, delivery confirmation, signature confirmation, tracking record, or
other proof of delivery or attempted delivery provided by the United States
Postal Service, or a photocopy of the record of delivery and receipt maintained
by the United States Postal Service, showing the date of delivery and to whom
delivered, or in the event of nondelivery, by the returned envelope itself.
(4)           A tracking
record or other documentation provided by an express service carrier showing
delivery or attempted delivery of the notice.”
 

