 Case Number:  23PSCV00378    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiffs Benjamin
Kirk’s and Butterfield Properties LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Benjamin
Kirk (“Kirk”) and Butterfield Properties LLC (“Butterfield”) (together,
“Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
Butterfield
is owned and controlled by Kirk. On January 19, 2021, Kirk, on behalf of Butterfield,
and SVPP Properties LLC (“SVPP”) entered into a lease to purchase agreement for
the property located at 761 Corporate Center Drive in Pomona, California
(“subject property”). 
 
In
June 2021, Lucy Seh (“Lucy”) joined Kingston Financial, a mortgage lending
company owned and operated by Kirk, as a loan officer. Lucy had been Kirk’s domestic
partner from 2000-2014. Lucy learned of the transaction and expressed interest
in the subject property. Contingent on Lucy investing in the subject
property, Kirk and Lucy agreed to split the equity in the subject property
50-50 when the subject property was sold. Lucy contributed $4,000 cash paid to
escrow at the time of closing. Kirk and
Lucy agreed to put the subject property in the name of Edington Assets LLC
(“Edington”) and agreed that Lucy’s son, Jonathan Seh (“Jonathan”), would act
as the managing member of Edington. Jonathan made no contribution to
funding the purchase price. Kirk then agreed to assign Butterfield’s interest
to Edington at the time escrow closed. Escrow closed on February 24, 2022. 
 
Although paperwork was drafted to
reflect the 50-50 interest between Kirk and Lucy in the subject property, Lucy
failed and refused to complete the same to reflect the 50/50 equity split
between her and Kirk.
 
On
May 18, 2022, Lucy recorded a deed of trust in the amount of $3.3 million
against the subject property in favor of 168 Investment LLC (“168 Investment”),
an entity Lucy controlled, even though no money was ever loaned by 168
Investment to Edington. 
 
On
October 7, 2022, Lucy assigned the aforesaid deed of trust to the Peter Seh
Living Trust 2001 dated September 13, 2001 (“Trust”), in which Lucy is the
trustee and sole beneficiary. On December 13, 2022, Lucy recorded a grant deed,
granting the subject property to the Trust.
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting causes of action against Lucy,
Jonathan, Trust, Edington and All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal or
Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property for:
1.                 
Suit to
Quiet Title
2.                 
Fraud in
the Inducement 
3.                 
Rescission
4.                 
Violations
of Uniform Voidable Transactions Act
5.                 
Common
Law Fraudulent Transfer Claims
6.                 
Conspiracy
to Commit Fraudulent Transfer
7.                 
Request
for Injunctive Relief
On January 19, 2024,
the court sustained Lucy, Jonathan and Trust’s demurrer to the third and
seventh causes of action in Plaintiffs’ FAC, without leave to amend.
A Case Management
Conference is set for April 30, 2024.
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the
court for summary adjudication on the following issues:
1.                 
The
assignment of Butterfield’s rights in the subject property to Edington fails
for lack of consideration;
2.                 
Edington
is a shell or sham corporation; and 
3.                 
The $3.3
million lien on the subject property created by the deed of trust from Edington
in favor of 168 Investment is a fraudulent transfer by Lucy and is null and
void. 
Procedural
Defects
Plaintiffs’ moving separate statement reflects
non-compliance with California Rules of Court Rule 3.1350, subdivision (b) (i.e.,
“[i]f
summary adjudication is sought, . . . the specific cause of action, affirmative
defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in
the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of
undisputed material facts”), (d) (i.e., “(1) The Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify: (A)
Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense
that is the subject of the motion. . . (3) . . . The statement must state in
numerical sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column followed
by the evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same column. .
.”).
Request for Judicial Notice and Evidentiary Objections
The court declines
to rule on Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice and evidentiary objections
as unnecessary to the disposition of the motion.
Analysis
Plaintiffs’ motion
for summary adjudication is denied. Issue No. 2 is simply not appropriate for
resolution via summary adjudication. Code of Civil Procedure § 437c,
subdivision (f)(1) provides that “[a] party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one of more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.
A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
Further, Plaintiffs’
Issue No. 1 is likewise inappropriate for resolution via summary adjudication.
While Plaintiffs may argue that Issue No. 1 may be construed as seeking summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for Rescission, such an
argument fails, inasmuch as the court previously sustained Lucy’s, Jonathan’s
and Trust’s demurrer to the third cause of action without leave to amend on January
19, 2024.
Lastly, Plaintiffs’
Issue No. 3 is inappropriate for resolution via summary adjudication. While
Plaintiffs may argue that Issue No. 3 may be construed as seeking summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for Violations of Uniform
Voidable Transactions Act and fifth cause of action for Common Law Fraudulent
Transfer Claims, such an argument fails, inasmuch as the fourth cause of action
pertains to the alleged fraudulent transfer of the subject property from
Edington to Trust and not to the $3.3 million encumbrance on the Property (See
Complaint, ¶ 47 [“Defendants Lucy Seh and Jonathan Seh fraudulently transferred
the Property from Edington Assets LLC to the Peter Seh Living Trust 2001. A.
With actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud Plaintiffs; b. Without
receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation; c. The transfer to Defendant The Peter Seh Living Trust 2001 was to
an insider. d. Defendants Lucy Seh and Jonathan Seh retained possession or
control of the Property after the transfer; e. The transfer was undisclosed and
concealed. f. Before the transfer was made, Plaintiff had threatened Defendants
with a lawsuit; g. The transfers were of substantially all of the assets of
Edington Assets, LLC; h. The value of the consideration received by Defendants
was not reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred i.
Defendant Lucy Seh was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the
transfers were made”]) and the fifth
cause of action pertains to both the alleged fraudulent transfer of the subject
property from Edington to Trust and to the $3.3 million encumbrance (Id.,
¶ 51 [“At all times material to this action, Defendants actually
intended to defraud the s Plaintiffs by transferring the Property on December
13, 2022 to Defendant The Peter Seh Living Trust 2001, an entity controlled by
Defendant Lucy Seh. Prior to this fraudulent transfer on May 18, 2022,
Defendant Lucy Seh created a fictitious Deed of Trust in the amount of
$3,300,000 to encumber the equity in the Property, and the so-called loan,
secured by the Deed of Trust, was never funded”], ¶ 53 [“No money or other
consideration was paid by either Defendant for the transfers, or any
consideration that may have been given did not constitute a ‘reasonably
equivalent value’ in exchange for the transfers”] and ¶ 54 [“As a result of the
fraudulent transfers described above, Plaintiffs have been damaged in
the minimum amount of $3 .3 million;” (emphasis added)]); accordingly, even if Issue No. 3 were resolved in Plaintiffs’ favor,
it would not “completely dispose[] of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”