 Case Number:  23PSCV03185    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  K Defendants Snehal Raj
Bhakta’s and Raj Bhakta’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint is
GRANTED. The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiffs as to whether leave to
amend is requested and will require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiffs Daniel Galvan and
Jayden Galvan (together, “Plaintiffs”) sustained injuries in an October 18,
2021 motor vehicle collision on the I-10 East in Pomona, California.
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Snehal Raj
Bhakta (S. Bhakta”), Raj Bhakta (“R. Bhakta”), Jose Alfredo Vargas-Nunez
(“Vargas-Nunez”) and Does 1-50 for:
             1.     Negligence2.     Statutory Liability
A Case Management Conference is
set for April 30, 2024.
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
S. Bhakta and R. Bhakta move the court for an order striking
out the following portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC:
1.                 
Page 4, ¶ 21: the word “reckless;” 
2.                 
Page 4, ¶ 22: the word “reckless;”
3.                 
Page 4, ¶ 23: “drove while intoxicated;”
4.                 
Page 5, ¶ 25: the word “reckless;”
5.                 
Page 5, ¶ 26: the word “reckless;”
6.                 
Page 5, ¶ 27: the word “reckless;”
7.                 
Page 7, ¶ 41: the word “reckless;” 
8.                 
Page 8, ¶ 50: the word “reckless;”
9.                 
Page 9, ¶ 56: the word “reckless;”
10.             
Page 9, ¶ 57: the word “reckless;” and 
11.             
Page 11, Prayer for Relief: “C. Punitive Damages.” 
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
The California Supreme Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892 determined that “the act of operating a motor vehicle
while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed
under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable
dangerous consequences.” The complaint in Taylor alleged that the
defendant was, and for a substantial period of time had been, an alcoholic, had
previously caused a serious car accident while driving under the influence of alcohol,
had been arrested and convicted for drunken driving on numerous prior occasions,
had accepted employment involving the transportation or alcoholic beverages and
had been driving while consuming an alcoholic beverage when the accident
occurred. The Court determined that 
“aggravating factors” such as a “history of prior arrests, convictions
and mishaps” were not essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive
damages in drunk driving cases (Id. at 896); regardless, the court found
the aforementioned allegations sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages, and did not consider “whether other factual variations upon the theme
herein presented would also be sufficient to withstand a demurrer” (Id.
at 900).
In Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the Fourth District Court of Appeal also noted that driving
while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages.
The complaint in Dawes alleged that defendant, while intoxicated, ran a
stop sign and “zigzag[ged]” in and out of traffic in excess of 65 miles per
hour in a 35 mile per hour zone in a crowded beach area on a Sunday afternoon
in June. The court, in determining that these allegations were sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages, stated that “we do not agree that the
risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless
to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an
intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per
hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in
June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is
certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The risk of injury
to others from [Defendant’s] conduct under the circumstances alleged was
probable." (Id. at 89).
Notably, both Taylor and
Dawes were decided prior to 1987,
when the Legislature added the requirement to Civil Code § 3294 that conduct be
“despicable” in order to support imposition of punitive damages under a
malice/willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others standard.
Plaintiffs have alleged that on October 18, 2021, S. Bhakta
drove a 2017 Jaguar F-Pace (“Jaguar”) on the I-10 eastbound, “at a high rate of
speed, while under the influence of alcohol (Enhancement – Driving While Under
the Influence of Alcohol with a BAC of .15% or greater) and while using a
wireless telephone” (FAC, ¶¶ 17 and 20) and that he “knowingly drove an
automobile on a public road while in an intoxicated, impaired, drowsy, tired,
sleepy state, at a high rate of speed all the while using a wireless telephone”
(Id., ¶ 47). Plaintiffs have failed to allege any additional aggravating
factors pertaining to S. Bhakta (and have not alleged any as to R. Bhakta); as
such, the motion is granted.