 Case Number:  23STCV18084    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Matthew V. Gomez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV18084




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 14, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Discovery
Moving Party: Plaintiff Matthew V. Gomez
Responding Party: Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION IS GRANTED SUBJECT TO THE LIMIT DISCUSSED
BELOW.
 
DEFENDANT TO SERVE FURTHER RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
This is a lemon law action arising out
of Plaintiff's purchase of a 2022 Mercedes-Benz GLE53C4 manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Mercedes-Benz. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The moving party on a motion to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit
“specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has
shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify
the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)  
 
After an unsuccessful informal
discovery conference, Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to RPDs, set
one. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has provided meritless, boilerplate
responses to each request and as such further responses are warranted. 
 
The RPDs seek information relating to
internal analysis and investigation regarding the alleged defects in
Plaintiff’s vehicle. These RPDs request Defendant produce, inter alia,
technical bulletins, recalls, internal investigation documents, consumer
complaints, and warranty claims regarding vehicles with the same alleged
defects as Plaintiffs’ vehicle. In response, Defendant made a multitude of
objections on the grounds that the RPDs are overbroad, unduly burdensome, seek
proprietary and trade secret information, are protected by attorney client
privilege, and/or attorney work-product.
 
“A plaintiff pursuing an action under
the [Song-Beverly] Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a
nonconformity covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the
use, value or safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the
vehicle was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of
the vehicle for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or
his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number
of repair attempts (the failure to repair element).”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 152 [citations omitted].) 

 
A buyer may be entitled to a civil
penalty of up to two times the actual damages upon a showing that the
manufacturer willfully failed to abide by any of its obligations under the
Act.  (Cal. Civ. Code § 1794(c).) Evidence
that Defendant has “adopted internal policies that erected hidden obstacles to
the ability of an unwary consumer to obtain redress under the Act” may support
a finding of such willful failure to comply. 
(Oregel v. Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal. App. 4th 1094,
1105.)  
 
As Plaintiff may recover civil
penalties for Defendant’s willful failure to comply with the Song-Beverly Act,
the requested documents are relevant. The Song-Beverly Act, however, applies
only to California consumer transactions. The requests related to other
vehicles/complaints also must be limited to vehicles purchased in California. 
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts the motion is untimely because it
was not served within 45 days of receipt of responses. The Court conducted an
informal discovery conference concerning these requests on January 10, 2024.
Defendant’s written statement in anticipation of the IDC addressed the issues
on the merits, and the Court discussed the merits with the parties at the IDC. At
the conclusion of the IDC, the Court gave Plaintiff 30 days to bring this
motion. Plaintiff represents that the parties agreed to this extension. There
is no indication in the Court's records that Defendant objected to the
extension, or that Defendant would assert that any motion filed before that 30-day
deadline would be untimely. Defendant does not address the IDC or the 30-day
extension in its opposition. The Court finds there was an agreement to extend
the deadline.
Plaintiff served the motion and attempted to file the motion
on February 8, 2024. The initial filing was inadvertently rejected, Plaintiff
refiled the motion on February 29, 2024. As Plaintiff served the motion
within 30 days of the IDC, the motion is timely. 
Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further is GRANTED.