 Case Number:  22STCV13404    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Chantal G. Estive’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED as to Requests for
Production No. 20 and 21, and DENIED as to Requests No. 18 and 19. No sanctions
are awarded..
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
PROTECTIVE
ORDER
 
“When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible
things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the
party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected
person, may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060,
subd. (a).) The party moving for the order must make a showing of good cause to
spare them from “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (b).) A party
responding to interrogatories may seek a protective order upon similar terms.
(Code Civ. Proc. §2030.090.)
(f) The court
shall limit the frequency or extent of discovery of electronically stored
information, even from a source that is reasonably accessible, if the court
determines that any of the following conditions exist:
(1) It is
possible to obtain the information from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.
(2) The
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.
(3) The party
seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to
obtain the information sought.
(4) The
likely burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely
benefit, taking into account the amount in controversy, the resources of the
parties, the importance of the issues in the litigation, and the importance of
the requested discovery in resolving the issues.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060,
subd. (f).)
Plaintiff Chantal G. Estive
(Plaintiff) seeks a protective order directing that she not be required to
respond to Defendant Agustin Quiroz’s (Defendant) Requests for Production No.
18–21, served upon her on October 30, 2023. Request No. 18 seeks:
The Apple®
iPhone used by YOU in December 2018, associated with the cellphone number (818)
859-0740 (the “First Phone”), along with any passwords necessary to view text
messages and other electronically stored information contained therein, and
with the appropriate power cords to keep the device’s battery charged during
the inspection.
The following
will be searched for, viewed, and copied:
(1) Text
messages to or from the DEFENDANT, or which he is the intended recipient of;
(2) Text
messages containing the word “Agustin.” DEFENDANT’s counsel shall use the cell
phone’s text message search function to conduct a search for the word
“Agustin.” To the extent, if any, results appear, the result(s) will be viewed
along with the five (5) text message(s) before and after the text message
appearing in the search result;
and
(3)
Historical geolocation information for the following dates:
a. January
22, 2019; and
b. January
27, 2019
DEFENDANT’s
counsel will take photographs of the text messages and other information as
they appear on the screen of the cellphone. No data contained on the cellphone
shall be altered or destroyed.
(Murphy Decl. Exh. 3.) The
other requests are basically identical in form, but refer to different cell
phones used by Plaintiff on different dates. 
Plaintiff contends that these
requests for phone inspection are duplicative and cumulative. Plaintiff
contends that she has produced all responsive communications from her first
iPhone during the relevant period from December 2018 and February 2019, when
the alleged break-in and ouster occurred. (Motion at p. 11.) Plaintiff contends
that Defendant can uncover the same text messages from his own phones, and that
location data can be determined by asking Plaintiff in interrogatories. (Motion
at p. 11.)  Plaintiff also argues that
she has a protected privacy interest in the contents of her phone. (Motion at
p. 10.)
Defendant argues that the
motion is untimely, as it was served on December 19, 2023, after responses to
the requests were due on December 15, 2023. (Opposition at p. 9.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer before bringing this motion.
(Opposition at pp. 9–10.) And Defendant argues that the requests are supported
by good cause, which overrides Plaintiff’s privacy interests. (Opposition at
pp. 11–13.)
The motion is not untimely. A
motion for protective order has no precise deadline, but must be made
“promptly.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060.) The motion here was filed mere days
after Plaintiff served objections to the discovery on December 15, 2023, based
upon the same arguments she now advances here. (Carlsen Decl. Exh. 10.) Defendant
provides no authority for the proposition that a motion for a protective order
must be served prior to the due date for responses. Likewise, Plaintiff
adequately met and conferred prior to the filing of the motion. A
meet-and-confer letter was sent on December 8, 2023, identifying the issues
Plaintiff not raises. (Murphy Decl. Exh. 10.) Although Defendant contends that
Plaintiff did not offer means of narrowing the discovery at issue, Defendant’s
responsive email likewise failed to offer any means of alternative resolution,
as does their current opposition. (Murphy Decl. Exh. 13.) 
Defendant offers the following
justification for the requests to inspect the four phones at issue here. In
response to Request No. 18, addressing the phone in Plaintiff’s possession in
December 2018, Plaintiff answered that the phone had been given to her counsel
in June 2023, put in the drawer of an associate who left the firm in August
2023, and that further searches of the office both immediately after the
associate’s departure and later have failed to uncover the phone. (Carlsen
Decl. Exh. 10.) Defendant argues that this response is inconsistent with the
post-August -2023 production of texts from this phone (included in production
sent on November 27, 2023), including one incomplete text chain with a third
party during the period of Plaintiff’s alleged ouster. (Carlsen Decl. Exh. 13.)
As to Request No. 19, which
addressed the phone in Plaintiff’s possession in March 2019, Plaintiff
responded that the data sought was no longer on the phone because it had been
inadvertently removed in October 2023 by an employee at the Apple store who performed
a factory reset in order to assist Plaintiff’s attempts to unlock the phone.
(Carlsen Decl. Exh. 10.) Defendant claims that no texts from this phone have
been produced, although Plaintiff in deposition claimed that she had given them
to her attorneys. (Opposition at pp. 6–7; Carlsen Decl. Exh. 4 at pp. 31–33.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s explanation concerning the phone’s
inadvertent erasure in a factory reset at the Apple store is inconsistent with
her prior testimony (at her August 8, 2023 deposition) concerning her earlier
phone, in which she indicated knowledge that a factory reset performed to
unlock the phone would erase everything on it. (Carlsen Decl. Exh. 4 at pp.
192–193.)
As to Request No. 20, which
addressed the phone Plaintiff used after the second phone, Plaintiff responded
that the phone had been stolen in July 2023 when she left it on a counter at a
Sylmar Food4Less.  (Carlsen Decl. Exh.
10.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff at her deposition mentioned texting
Defendant about selling the house shortly before filing the lawsuit, while she
used the phone at issue. (Carlsen Exh. 4 at p. 179.) 
Defendant has shown good cause for Requests No. 18 and 19,
as to Plaintiff’s first and second phones. Plaintiff has acknowledged at
deposition the existence of responsive text messages involving the pertinent
period of time on both phones, and Defendant has shown the existence of
discrepancies in Plaintiff’s explanation for the whereabouts of the first
phone, and as to the circumstances of the second phone’s erasure. Although
Plaintiff has a limited privacy interest in the contents of her phone (See
Riley v. California (2014) 573 U.S. 373, 403), this interest must be
weighed against Defendant’s interest in the discovery of responsive
information:
 
In
determining whether disclosure is required [against a privacy objection], the
court must indulge in a ‘careful balancing’ of the right of a civil litigant to
discover relevant facts, on the one hand, and the right of the third parties to
maintain reasonable privacy regarding their sensitive personal affairs, on the
other. The court must consider the purpose of the information sought, the
effect that disclosure will have on the affected persons and parties, the
nature of the objections urged by the party resisting disclosure and
availability of alternative, less intrusive means for obtaining the requested
information. Based on an application of these factors, the more sensitive the
nature of the personal information that is sought to be discovered, the more
substantial the showing of the need for the discovery that will be required
before disclosure will be permitted.
 
 (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004, internal
citations omitted.) Plaintiff has identified such texts regarding the
circumstances of her alleged ouster as relevant to support her case. (Carlsen
Decl. Exh. 11 (Interrogatory No. 17.1).) These texts include texts to third
parties to which Defendant would not otherwise have access. Moreover, Defendant
may seek the geolocation data for the two January 2019 dates in question, as
they are relevant to the allegations in this action. Although Plaintiff
contends that this information can be sought from her by interrogatory,
Defendant may reasonably seek discovery of this information from a more
objective source.
 
Conversely, Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for a
protective order against Requests No. 20 and 21, for respectively her third
most recent phones. Defendant has identified no production that has been
withheld as to these phones, save texts sent to Defendant himself. Plaintiff
has shown grounds to believe that the discovery sought as to these phones is
therefore duplicative and more conveniently found in Defendant’s possession.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (f)(1), (2).)
 
Accordingly, the motion for protective order is GRANTED as
to Requests No. 20 and 21, and DENIED as to Requests No. 18 and 19. Both
parties seek sanctions against the other, with Plaintiff seeking $10,000.00
(Murphy Decl. ¶ 14) and Defendant seeking $16,285.50 in fees and costs,
representing 32.9 hours of attorney work at $495 per hour. (Carlsen Decl. ¶
15.) No sanctions are awarded, as both parties have prevailed only in part.
 