  Case Number:  21STCV26547    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




david maijala;
 
Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mulgrew aircraft components, inc., et
  al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV26547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   26, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
cross-complainant’s motion for summary
  judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Cross-complainant Mulgrew
Aircraft Components, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-defendant
David Maijala
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion.[1] 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court notes that, in
response to the material facts set forth in the separate statement,
cross-defendant David Maijala asserted various objections.  (See, e.g., Maijala Sep. Statement, pp.
3:21-28, 7:16-24, 16:11-20, 18:7-10, 19:12-13, 20:6-7.)  But (1) to the extent that the objections are
directed to evidence, all such objections “must be served and filed separately
from other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion” and must be in
the format required by the California Rules of Court, and (2) to the extent
that cross-defendant David Maijala is attempting to object to the recitation of
material facts, the court finds that such objections are improper because they
are not directed to evidence.  (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 3.1354, subd. (b).) 
The court therefore has not ruled on the objections included in
cross-defendant David Maijala’s response separate statement. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  For the purposes of motion for summary
judgment and summary adjudication, “[a] plaintiff or cross-complainant has met
his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if
that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party
to judgment on the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
“Once the plaintiff . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Cross-complainant Mulgrew Aircraft
Components, Inc. (“Mulgrew”) moves the court for an order granting summary
judgment in its favor and against cross-defendant David Maijala (“Maijala”) on
Mulgrew’s Cross-Complaint or, in the alternative, granting summary adjudication
on each cause of action alleged against Maijala in its Cross-Complaint.

1.     First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
“‘A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the
following elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to
plaintiff as a result of the breach.’”  (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
The court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the first cause of action for breach of contract
because Mulgrew has not proven the elements of (1) the existence of a contract
between Mulgrew and Maijala that required Maijala to comply with the terms of
Mulgrew’s Security provision and Voice Mail, E-Mail, and Computer Files
provision, (2) Mulgrew’s performance or excuse for nonperformance pursuant to
the terms of the parties’ agreement, and (3) resulting damages. 
First, the court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden to
prove the existence of a contract between it, on the one hand, and Maijala, on
the other hand, pursuant to which Maijala agreed to comply with the terms of
Mulgrew’s Security provision and Voice Mail, E-Mail, and Computer Files
provision since the evidence submitted by Mulgrew shows that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to this element. 
Mulgrew has submitted the parties’ Employee Handbook, in which
Mulgrew (1) set forth “[e]xamples of impermissible conduct, which may lead to
disciplinary action,” including the “[t]heft, stealing, or unauthorized removal
of property belonging to [Mulgrew], another employee, a customer or a visitor,
regardless of the value of the item” (the Security provision), and (2) stated
that the email system should not be used to send or receive trade secrets or
proprietary information without prior authorization from Mulgrew (the Voice
Mail, E-Mail, and Computer Files provision). 
(Houshiar Decl., Ex. A, Employee Handbook, pp. MACI000068, ¶ 12,
MACI000082.)  However, Mulgrew has not
shown that the parties intended these provisions to create contractual
obligations on the part of Maijala to not engage in such conduct. 
The Employee Handbook begins by stating that it “is presented as a
matter of information” to inform Mulgrew’s employees about its
“employment practices, policies, and the benefits provided to [its] valued
employees, as well as the conduct expected from them.”  (Houshiar Decl., Ex. A, Employee Handbook, p.
MACI000053 [emphasis added].)  The
Employee Handbook also states that it “contains the entire agreement between
[the employee] and [Mulgrew] as to the duration of [the employee’s] employment
and the circumstances under which [the] employment may be terminated.”  (Id. at p. MACI000054.)  This language does not state that the
Employee Handbook constitutes an agreement pursuant to which the employee must
perform the obligations therein. 
Further, while the Employee Handbook Acknowledgment Form, signed
by Maijala on May 20, 2019, states that Maijala “agree[d] to abide by the rules
of conduct and other personnel policies set forth therein[,]” the
acknowledgment expressly states that the Employee Handbook is not intended to
create a contract.  (Houshiar Decl., Ex.
B.)  Specifically, the acknowledgement
states that “nothing contained in the Mulgrew Aircraft Components Employee
Handbook or this Acknowledgement Form shall be construed to . . . create any
contract pertaining to [Maijala’s] employment, including employment for a
specified time.”  (Ibid.)  The acknowledgement further states that the
Employee Handbook and acknowledgement form shall not “be construed to create a
contractual obligation, express or implied, on the part of Mulgrew pertaining
to any portion of the Handbook or any aspect of any employment.”  (Ibid.) 
The court notes that the Employee Handbook also provides that,
in consideration of the employee’s employment, the employee (i.e., Maijala) agrees
to preserve certain information as highly confidential, to not disclose the
information to any person or entity absent consent, to not copy or duplicate
any information without consent, and to return all information to Mulgrew upon
request.  (Houshiar Decl., Ex. A,
Employee Handbook, pp. MACI000080-81.) 
Thus, that provision appears to include language indicating the
existence of an agreement.  But (1) that
language only applies to the Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure provision, and
(2) as set forth above, there is conflicting language regarding whether the
parties intended to create a contract pursuant to the terms of the Employee
Handbook.  
Thus, there is conflicting language in the Employee Handbook and
the Employee Handbook Acknowledgement Form that appears to indicate both that
the parties did and did not intend to create a legally enforceable obligation
on the part of Maijala to comply with Mulgrew’s policies and procedures.  (See, e.g., Houshiar Decl., Ex. B [“nothing
contained in the Mulgrew Aircraft Components Employee Handbook or this
Acknowledgement Form shall be construed to . . . create any contract
pertaining to [Maijala’s] employment”] [emphasis added]; Esparza v. Sand
& Sea, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 781, 789 [finding that employee
handbook’s indication that it was not intended to establish an agreement
undermined the argument that the handbook and its arbitration provision was
intended to create a legally enforceable agreement to arbitrate].)  Specifically, Mulgrew has not shown that the
parties entered into a contract that obligated Maijala (1) to comply with the
Security Provision of the Employee Handbook, and (2) to comply with the Voice
Mail, E-Mail, and Computer Files provision. 
(Mot., pp. 11:22-12:8, 13:19-27, 18:3-7 and 18:13-15 [arguing that
Maijala breached these provisions].)  
Mulgrew has not addressed the language of the Employee Handbook
and the Employee Handbook Acknowledgement Form in its moving papers.  Thus, the court finds that Mulgrew has not
presented adequate argument, analysis, and authority to show that the parties
intended to enter into a binding agreement pursuant to which Maijala was
required to comply with all of the terms of the Employee Handbook.
The court notes that Mulgrew has argued that Maijala “acknowledges
entering into a contractual relationship with Mulgrew, based on the Employee
Handbook and Offer Letter.”  (Mot., p.
11:13-14; Def. Fact No. 5.)  The court
disagrees.  While Maijala stated, in
response to the interrogatory asking whether the employment relationship was
governed by any written rules, policies, or procedures, “Yes, Employee
Handbook[,]” Maijala did not expressly state that the written rules, polices,
or procedures formed a valid and enforceable contract between the parties.  (Nenni Decl., Ex. G-2, p. 3 [Interrogatory
No. 200.4]; Nenni Decl., Ex. G-1, p. 3:18-19 [Maijala’s response to No.
200.4].)  Further, Maijala testified not
that he agreed that the parties entered into a contractual relationship in
which he agreed to all of the terms set forth in the Employee Handbook as
advanced by Mulgrew, but that (1) he agreed to the terms of the offer letter and
accepted those terms, (2) he acknowledged that (i) the Employee Handbook included
certain provisions and policies, and (ii) he acknowledged receipt and his
understanding of those provisions and policies at the beginning of his
employment, and (3) he signed the job offer extended to him by Mulgrew.  (Nenni Decl., Ex. I, Maijala Dep., p.
111:1-15; Nenni Decl., Ex. J, Maijala Dep., pp. 280:1-281:1, 287:3-14.) 
The court therefore finds Mulgrew has not shown that the parties
intended to create the subject contractual obligations on the part of Maijala
pursuant to the Employee Handbook, such that Mulgrew has not met its burden to
prove that element of its cause of action for breach of contract since
Mulgrew’s own evidence shows that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether the parties entered into an agreement. 
(Miles, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at p. 402.) 
Second, even if Mulgrew had met its burden to prove the existence
of a contract between the parties that obligated Maijala to comply with the
terms of Mulgrew’s Security provision and Voice Mail, E-Mail, and Computer
Files provision, the court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden to prove
that it performed under the terms of the agreement or was excused from its
nonperformance because Mulgrew did not address that element in its moving
papers.  (Miles, supra, 236
Cal.App.4th at p. 402.)
Third, even if Mulgrew had met its burden to prove the existence
of a contract, Maijala’s breach, and Mulgrew’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance thereunder, the court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden
to prove that it suffered damages as a result of Maijala’s breach because
Mulgrew (1) did not present adequate argument and authority addressing this
element in its moving papers, and instead has merely stated, in conclusory
fashion, that it has been harmed by Maijala’s conduct and that data theft such
as the theft allegedly committed by Maijala “can lead to[,]” inter
alia, loss of revenue and reputational harm, and (2) did not cite evidence
to show that it has suffered damages, such as lost revenues and profits.  (Miles, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th
at p. 402; Mot., p. 19:3-8 [emphasis added]; Cross-Compl., ¶ 28 [alleging that
Mulgrew has suffered damages, including lost revenue and profits, as a result
of Maijala’s breach of contract].) 
The court therefore denies Mulgrew’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of contract.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
“[M]isappropriation of a trade secret under the California
[Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Civ. Code, § 3426 et seq.) (“UTSA”)] consists of
only two elements: (1) existence of a trade secret, and (2) improper
acquisition, use, or disclosure of that trade secret.”  (Applied Medical Distribution Corp. v.
Jarrells (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 556, 569-570; Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd.
(b) [defining “Misappropriation”].) 
The court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the second cause of action for misappropriation of
trade secrets because Mulgrew has not proven the element of the existence of a
trade secret.  (Applied Medical
Distribution Corp., supra, 100 Cal.App.5th at pp. 569-570.)  
In support of its motion, Mulgrew asserts that Maijala
misappropriated the following trade secrets: (1) its customer contacts; (2) its
operatory planning, process and procedures, templates and technical data; (3)
its customer invoices; (4) the pricing arrangements under which Mulgrew
provided services to its customers; (5) its training materials; (6) its notes from
customer meetings; and (7) its supply, vendor, customer, and pricing
information.  (Mot., pp. 14:14-21 [citing
material fact numbers 15 and 19], 22:16-20.) 
The court finds that Mulgrew has not shown that any of the above-described
categories of information constitutes its trade secrets. 
A trade secret is statutorily defined to mean information that
“(1) [d]erives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being
generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value
from its disclosure or use; and [¶] (2) [i]s the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.”  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d).)  “’In short, the test for a trade secret is
whether the matter sought to be protected is information (1) that is valuable
because it is unknown to others and (2) that the owner has attempted to keep
secret.’”  (Amgen Inc. v. Health Care
Services (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 734.)
            Mulgrew has submitted the
declaration of its President and Chief Executive Officer, Mohammad Houshiar, in
which Houshiar has stated the following: 
“The documents which Maijala removed from Mulgrew on or about October 2,
2019, include trade secrets, including information not generally known to the
public, in which Mulgrew has invested substanntial [sic] time, money,
and energy to create and maintain, including customer and vendor lists, pricing
and pricing methodologies, policy and contractual language, purchase orders
which identify vendors, customers, inspections, and processes, information
relating to audits, including audits related to quality control, procurement,
supplier selection, and delivery, and manufacturing processes, among other
information Mulgrew deems confidential.” 
(Houshiar Decl., ¶¶ 1, 17.) 
Houshiar has further stated that Maijala took other confidential
documents, “several thousand” of which “Mulgrew deems confidential and
proprietary, as well as a smaller subset containing trade secrets . . . .”  (Houshiar Decl., ¶ 18.)  The court finds that this evidence does not
show that the documents allegedly taken by Maijala constitute Mulgrew’s trade
secrets. 
First, the court finds that Houshiar’s assertions in his
declaration do not show that the documents allegedly taken by Maijala
constitute Mulgrew’s trade secrets because, although Houshiar has stated that
this information is “not generally known to the public,” Houshiar did not state
facts establishing that this information “[d]erives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use[.]”  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d)(1); Amgen
Inc., supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at p. 734.)  Mulgrew did not cite any other evidence
establishing that this information derives such economic value from not being
known to the public.  
Second, Houshiar did not state facts establishing that this
information “[i]s the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the
circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d)(2).) 
Houshiar did not describe any efforts undertaken by Mulgrew to maintain
the secrecy of any of the seven delineated categories of its alleged trade
secrets in his declaration. 
The court notes that, in its moving papers, Mulgrew has argued
that it required employees to sign a confidentiality and non-disclosure
agreement before making this information available and as a condition of
employment with Mulgrew.  (Mot., p.
23:4-7.)  But (1) as set forth above,
this provision is in the Employee Handbook, the receipt and acknowledgement of
which includes language that the parties did not intend to create a contract
pertaining to Maijala’s employment, and (2) even if the court were to find that
the Employee Handbook and Employee Handbook Acknowledgement Form created the
existence of a non-disclosure agreement as a condition of Maijala’s employment,
the court notes that the Employee Handbook did not name its training materials
to be the subject of such a non-disclosure agreement, such that Mulgrew has not
shown that every category of its trade secrets that it contends that Maijala
misappropriated was the subject of reasonable efforts to maintain its secrecy.[2]  (Houshiar Decl., Ex. A, Employee Handbook,
pp. MACI000080-81; Houshiar Decl., Ex. B, Employee Handbook Acknowledgement
Form [nothing contained in the Mulgrew Aircraft Components Employee Handbook or
this Acknowledgement Form shall be construed to . . . create any contract
pertaining to [Maijala’s] employment”]; Whyte v. Schlage Lock Co. (2002)
101 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1454 [“Requiring employees to sign confidentiality
agreements is a reasonable step to ensure secrecy”]; Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd.
(d)(2).) 
            The court also notes that counsel
for Mulgrew has stated, in his declaration, that “[t]he documents which Maijala
removed from Mulgrew on or about October 2, 2019, appear to include
trade secrets, including documents relating to customer lists, vendors, parts,
pricing, supplies and procurement, contractual language and internal policy
language, manufacturing processes, supplier-selection processes, [and] audits
assessing on-time deliveries.”  (Nenni
Decl., ¶ 18 [emphasis added].)  The court
finds that this assertion is insufficient to show that the subject documents
contain information that derives independent economic value from not being
generally known to the public and that is the subject of efforts to maintain
its secrecy.  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1, subd.
(d).)  Thus, the court finds that counsel’s
declaration does not show that the documents allegedly taken by Maijala
constitute Mulgrew’s trade secrets. 
The court therefore denies Mulgrew’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for misappropriation of trade
secrets.  
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices 
“[U]nfair competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair
or fraudulent business act or practice . . . .” 
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) 
“‘To bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must show either an (1) “unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice,” or (2) “unfair, deceptive,
untrue, or misleading advertising.” ’”  (Adhav
v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970.)  “Because the UCL is written in the
disjunctive, ‘ “it establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or
practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” ’”  (Ibid.)
The court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the third cause of action for unfair business
practices because Mulgrew has not proven the element of an underlying unlawful
business act or practice since (1) Mulgrew has based this cause of action on
the allegations that Maijala misappropriated Mulgrew’s trade secrets
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 40-41) and breached his non-disclosure agreement with Mulgrew
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 40), and (2) the court has determined that Mulgrew has not met
its burden to prove the elements of its causes of action for breach of contract
and misappropriation of trade secrets, such that Mulgrew has not met its burden
to show that Maijala engaged in unlawful and unfair business practices in
support of this cause of action.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200; Adhav, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p.
970; People ex rel. Elliot v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2024)
105 Cal.App.5th 1114, 326 Cal.Rptr.3d 458, 468-469 [“In prohibiting unlawful
business acts or practices, the UCL borrows rules set out in other laws and
makes violations of those rules independently actionable”] [internal quotation
marks and citation omitted].) 
The court therefore denies Mulgrew’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for unfair business practices.
 
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
“‘The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are “receipt of a
benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”  [Citation.]  “The theory of unjust enrichment requires one
who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return either the
thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly
enriched.”  [Citation.]’”  (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225
Cal.App.4th 759, 769.) 
The court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment
because Mulgrew has not proven the element of Maijala’s receipt of a benefit
and his unjust retention thereof at Mulgrew’s expense.  (Lyles, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th
at p. 769.)
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Mulgrew appears to
base this cause of action on the same facts and theories set forth in
connection with its causes of action for breach of contract and
misappropriation of trade secrets. 
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 44-45 [incorporating above allegations and alleging
that Maijala has been unjustly enriched as a result of his conduct].)   Thus,
to the extent that Mulgrew has based this cause of action on the allegation
that Maijala has misappropriated its trade secrets and therefore has retained
the benefit of those trade secrets, the court has found, for the reasons set
forth above, that Mulgrew has not met its burden to show that Maijala
misappropriated its trade secrets.  
Moreover, to the extent that Mulgrew has based this cause of
action on the allegation that Maijala unjustly obtained Mulgrew’s confidential
and proprietary information, the court notes that such a theory may be separate
from and independent of the breach of contract cause of action.  But (1) this cause of action also appears to
be based on the theory that Maijala misappropriated Mulgrew’s trade secrets,
which the court has concluded that Mulgrew has not met its burden to prove, which
(2) precludes an order granting summary adjudication in Mulgrew’s favor on this
ground because it would not completely dispose of this cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action . . . .”] [emphasis added].)  Thus, the court does not evaluate whether
Mulgrew has shown that Maijala unjustly retained the benefit of Mulgrew’s
proprietary information. 
The court also notes that Mulgrew’s Cross-Complaint requests, as a
remedy, “disgorgement of the revenue and profits of such conduct, plus accrued
interest” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 45), but that Mulgrew did not present (1) argument
and authority explaining its entitlement to disgorgement of profits, and (2)
evidence establishing the amounts of such revenue and profits that it contends
that it is entitled to recover from Maijala in connection with this cause of
action.  
The court therefore denies Mulgrew’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment.  
5.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief Pursuant to the Uniform Trade Secrets Act
 “Actual or threatened
misappropriation [of a trade secret] may be enjoined.”  (Civ. Code, § 3426.2, subd. (a).) 
The court finds that Mulgrew has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the fifth cause of action for injunctive relief
pursuant to the UTSA because (1) this cause of action alleges only a claim for
relief based on the alleged misappropriation of its trade secrets
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 47), and (2) Mulgrew has not met its burden to prove each
element of its cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets for the
reasons set forth above, such that it has not shown that it is entitled to injunctive
relief pursuant to the UTSA.  (Applied
Medical Distribution Corp., supra, 100 Cal.App.5th at p. 573 [“A
permanent injunction is merely a remedy for a proven cause of action.  It may not be issued if the underlying cause
of action is not established”] [internal quotation marks and citation
omitted].) 
The court therefore denies Mulgrew’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for injunctive relief pursuant to
the UTSA.
6.     Prayers
for Punitive Damages and Attorney’s Fees
In his opposition to this motion, Maijala challenges Mulgrew’s
prayers for attorney’s fees and punitive damages.  The court does not reach these arguments in
ruling on Mulgrew’s motion because (1) Mulgrew did not move for summary
adjudication on its claim for punitive damages, and (2) these arguments are
irrelevant to ruling on Mulgrew’s motion for summary judgment. 
ORDER
            The court denies cross-complainant
Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication. 
The court orders cross-defendant David Maijala to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 26, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


