 Case Number:  23STCV30438    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  82 Pampanga Master Grill, Inc.                                   Case No. 23STCV30438
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 30, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                                  Core Value Advisors, LLC, et al.                                   Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
                                     
[Tentative] Order Granting Applications
for Writs of Attachment
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Plaintiff
Pampanga Master Grill, Inc. (“PMG”) filed this action against SCG Bahay
Apartments LLC (“SCG”).  PMG leased the
premises—located at 330 North Westlake Avenue, Suite 200, Los Angeles,
California (the “premises”)—from SCG’s predecessor, South Echo Apartments, LLC
(“South Echo”) with plans to open a restaurant. 
The lease contained a warranty that Suite 200 complied with the building
codes and applicable laws, but that provision expressly stated that the
warranty does not necessarily apply to Plaintiff’s intended use for the
premises.  PMG alleges that South Echo
promised to provide a kitchen exhaust shaft/hood, in contravention of the
lease’s express term that PMG would lease the premises “as is.”  Due to unpermitted construction by the tenant
in the neighboring unit, PMG was not able to construct its own duct system; could
not open its restaurant; and stopped paying the rent.  SCG issued a three-day notice and terminated
the lease.  Plaintiff filed its complaint
for breach of contract, breach of the implied warranty of good faith and fair
dealing, and negligence.  SCG filed a
cross-complaint against PMG and Imelda Mallari, the guarantor asserting claims
for breach of contract (lease) and breach of contract (guaranty), respectively.  Now, SCG seeks writs of attachment against
both in the total amount of $365,637.65. 
The writs are granted.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“Upon the filing
of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to
this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an
application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. 
§ 484.010.)  “Except as otherwise provided by statute, an
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney's
fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010.)  “The Attachment Law statutes are
subject to strict construction.” 
(Epstein v.
Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
1159, 1168.) 

 
The court shall issue a right to attach order if the court
finds all of the following: 
 
(1)   The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon
which an attachment may be issued. 
 
(2)   The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
claim upon which the attachment is based. 
 
(3)   The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based. 
 
(4)   The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than
zero.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090.)  
 
“A claim has ‘probable
validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a
judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)  “The application
shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts
presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.030.) ¿“In contested applications,
the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective
parties and make a determination of¿the probable outcome of the
litigation.”¿  (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 76, 80.)    
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            SCG’s request judicial notice of Exhibit 2, which is a recorded
grant deed.  There is no opposition to
the request.  The court grants the
request under Evidence Code section 452(c). 
SCG objects to the declaration of May Mallari.  The court largely sustains these objections
because the declaration largely relies on hearsay, lacks foundation, and/or
relies on emails that are not attached as exhibits.  The declaration also advances legal arguments
and conclusions.  Specifically, the court
sustains Objection Numbers 1 through 9, 12 through 20, and 24 through 26.  The court overrules Objection Numbers 10, 11,
21, 22, 23.  
 
DISCUSSION 
            
A.        Notice – SCG gave proper
notice of the applications.     
 
B.        Probable
Validity of SCG’s Claims 
 
The applications are based on SCG’s causes of action for
breach of written contract (lease) and breach of contract (guaranty).  To establish a claim, a plaintiff must
prove: (1) the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach of the contract; and (4) damages
incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  
 
SCG submits
evidence that supports all elements of its causes of action for breach of
contract and breach of guaranty. 
Specifically, SCG submits evidence as follows:
 
·                
PMG,
as tenant, executed a commercial lease (the “Lease”) for the premises with
SCG’s predecessor, South Echo 
 
·                
SCG
succeeded to all rights and responsibilities of South Echo under the lease when
it acquired the Building
 
·                
South
Echo and SCG performed their obligations under the Lease
 
·                
PMG
breached its obligations by failing to pay rent starting in early 2023
 
·                
PMG
has since vacated the Premises
 
·                
SCG
has suffered total damages of $365,637.65. 

 
(Lay Decl. ¶¶ 4-19,
Exh. 1-5.)  SCG also submits evidence
that:
 
·       Mallari executed a
Guaranty of Lease (“Guaranty”) 
 
·       SCG succeeded to
all rights and responsibilities of South Echo under the Guaranty
 
·       South Echo and SCG
performed their obligations under the Guaranty 
 
·       Mallari has
breached the Guaranty by failing to pay PMG’s obligations under the Lease
 
(Ibid.)  Cross-Defendants do not dispute these facts.  Instead, they argue that SCG will not prevail
in this action because they have “viable” defenses against the cross-complaint or
related contract claims in the first amended complaint.  The court is not persuaded that
Cross-Defendants will prevail on their claims or defenses.  The lease expressly stated that the premises
were not warrantied for any specific, intended purpose.  (Lay Decl., Exh. 1 at ¶ 2.3.)  The Addendum states: 
 
The Premises are being leased in its current “AS IS”
condition, without any expressed or implied warranties.  Any and all representations and warranties of
Lessor set forth in the Lease are hereby deleted.  Lessee hereby represents that Lessee or
Lessee’s agents have inspected the subject property to the full extent deemed
appropriate and that Lessee is satisfied with its condition. Lessee
acknowledges that as of the date of the Lease, the Premises are in good order,
repair, and condition.
 
(Lay Decl. Exh. 2 at ¶ 50.)  
  
            Nor
have Cross-Defendants articulated a lawful basis to withhold the rent.  To the contrary, the Lease provides that PMG
must pay rent, fully and timely, “without offset or deduction (except as
specifically permitted in this Lease).” 
(Lay Decl. Exh. 1 at ¶ 4.3.)  The
Lease also provides that “[n]either Lessor or its agents shall be liable
for…any damages arising from any act or neglect of any other tenant of Lessor
or from the failure of Lessor or its agents to enforce the provisions of any
other lease in the Project.”  (Id.,
Exh. 1 at ¶ 8.8.)  Cross-Defendants’
claims for damages—based on the neighboring tenant’s construction of tenant
improvements—appear to fall within the scope of section 8.8.  Cross-Defendants have not developed an argument
to the contrary.  Finally, “Lessor shall
not be deemed in breach of this Lease unless Lessor fails within a reasonable
time to perform an obligation required to performed by Lessor.”  (Id. Exh. 1 at 13.6.)  The notice must be in writing and shall give
the lessor at least 30 days to cure the alleged breach.  (Ibid.; see also Id. ¶
23.)  Although Cross-Defendants served a
written notice on December 6, 2023, that alleged breach of the Lease, they
filed the complaint on December 13, 2023, and therefore did not give the 30
days required by the Lease for SCG to cure. 
(Mallari Decl. ¶ 21, Exh. A.)
 
Cross-Defendants argue anticipatory
breach as a defense.  “In order to
constitute an anticipatory breach the promisor must manifest such intention by
a clear, positive and unequivocal refusal to perform.”  (Whitney Inv. Co. v. Westview Dev. Co.
(1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 594, 602-603.)  In
this case, the problems stemmed from the neighboring tenant’s unpermitted
improvements in that unit. 
Cross-Defendants do not show that SCG or its predecessor clearly, positively,
or unequivocally manifested a refusal to perform.  The alleged “false representations” of SCG’s
predecessor could not have been a basis for anticipatory breach as those
statements were allegedly included in the Lease itself.   (Oppo. 12-13, citing ¶ 2.3 of the
Lease.)  
 
            Cross-Defendants also argue fraud in
the inducement (or modification of the contract), i.e., that South Echo
promised to provide an exhaust shaft.  As
discussed, Malari’s declaration is largely inadmissible.  In the absence of emails modifying the
contract, South Echo’s alleged oral promises are not sufficient to find in
favor of Cross-Defendants.    
  
Cross-Defendants challenge SCG’s
calculation of damages.  (Oppo. 21-22.)  The court is not persuaded by these arguments.  Cross-Defendants cite no authority that the
amount stated in the 3-day notice limited SCG’s damages in a contract action,
and Cross-Defendants do not rebut the evidence that $70,104.28 in rent accrued
for July 2022 through November 2023. 
(Lay Decl. ¶ 18.a and Exh. 5.)  The
holdover damages of $39,799.36 are calculated, per the Lease terms, for the
period of December 2, 2023, through March 27, 2024.  (Id. ¶ 18.b and Exh. 5.)  SCG’s evidence supports that PMG retained
possession, or “held over,” until March 27, 2024.  (Akopchikyan Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)  Cross-Defendants do not rebut that
evidence.  Although Cross-Defendants
state that “PMG did not continue with its use and possession of Unit #200 after
notice was made,” they do not cite supporting evidence or dispute that SCG filed
an unlawful detainer in January 2024 to obtain possession. (See Oppo.
21:21-22; Mallari Decl. generally; and Akopchikyan Decl. ¶ 5.)  Finally, the burden is on Cross-Defendants,
not on SCG, to prove that the $288,803.88 in damages for the remainder of the
Lease term could have been mitigated.  (See
Civ. Code § 1951.2 and Lease ¶ 13.2(a).) 

 
Based on the
foregoing, SCG has proven a probably valid claim in the amount of $365,637.65.
 


 
C.        Basis for
Attachment 
 
“[A]n attachment
may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which
is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the
claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five
hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(a).)  “An attachment
may not be issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in real property
arising from agreement ….”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.010(b).)  “If the action is
against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be issued only
on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade,
business, or profession.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(c); see Advance Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974)
44 Cal.App.3d 127, 143-144.)
 
Here, SCG’s
applications for writs of attachment are based on contract claims for which the
total amount allegedly due is in excess of $500.  The claims are not secured by real
property.  SCG’s claim against Mallari
arises from Mallari’s conduct of a trade or business.  (See Lay Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3; Mallari
Decl. ¶ 1.)  SCG’s damages are fixed and
readily ascertainable from the terms of the Lease and from SCG’s declarations.  
 
D.        Purpose and
Amount of Attachment 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 484.090 states that the court shall issue a right to attach
order if “the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on
the claim upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.”  The court finds that the attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachments is based and the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater
than zero.  
 
E.         Reduction of
Amount to be Secured 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 483.015(b) authorizes a reduction in the amount of attachment
based on claims for offset pleaded against the moving party in an answer or
other pleading.  Cross-Defendants have the
initial burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of attachment for any
offset claim.  (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 483.015 and Lydig Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
937, 945.)  Among other requirements,
“the contract sued on must furnish a standard by which the amount due may be
clearly ascertained and there must exist a basis upon which the damages can be
determined by proof.’”  (See CIT
Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at 541.)  “[T]he court must
consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and
make a determination of¿the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿  (Hobbs, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at 80.)  The court denies an offset for the reasons
discussed.    
 
F.         Exemptions –
Cross-Defendants have not claimed any exemptions.  
 


 
G.        Subject
Property 
 
SCG requests attachments against Mallari,
a natural person, of items listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010(c)
and (d), including real property. 
(Application ¶ 9c.)  That request
is proper.  (See Bank of
America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d 260, 267-268
[“all-inclusive” application satisfies CCP section 484.020(e)].) 
 
SCG requests attachment of any
property of PMG, a corporation.  (Application
¶ 9c.)  That request is proper.  “[A]ll corporate property for which a method of levy is
provided by Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300) of Chapter 8” may be
attached.  (CCP § 487.010(a).)  
 
H.        Undertaking 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before
issuance of a writ of attachment.  Section
489.220 provides, with exceptions, for an undertaking in the amount of
$10,000.  Neither party has argued for a
different amount of undertaking.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The applications for writ of attachment
are granted in the total amount of $365,637.65.  Although the court is
issuing two separate writs, one against Pampanga Master Grill, Inc. and one
against Imelda Mallari, they shall be construed jointly and severally, i.e.,
SCG Bahay Apartments LLC may not attach more $365,637.65 in total.  
 
            2.         SCG
Bahay Apartments LLC shall post an undertaking of $10,000 for each of the
Cross-Defendants.  
 
            3.         Counsel
for SCG Bahay Apartments LLC shall provide notice and file proof of service
with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 30,
2024                    
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    