  Case Number:  20STCV34289    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




BRUCE E.
  FISHMAN, M.D., etc., et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PATRICK NAZEMI, etc., et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.   
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION                             


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV34289
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES FILED BY MLA
  MONEY PURCHASE PENSION PLAN AND MLA DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN
 
Date: 
  April 11, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants
and Cross-Complainants MLA Money Purchase Pension Plan (“MPPP”) and MLA Defined
Benefit Pension Plan (“DBPP”) (collectively “MLA Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed
 
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. No opposition papers were filed. Any opposition papers were required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1005(b). 
 
BACKGROUND
            On
September 9, 2020, Plaintiffs Bruce E. Fishman, M.D., Bruce Eliot Fishman,
M.D., F.I.C.S., Inc., and Family Urgent Care & Industrial Medical Clinic,
Inc. (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Patrick
Nazemi, Med-Legal Associates, Inc. (“MLA”), Med-Legal Associates, LLC, MPPP,
DBPP, US Risk Insurance Company, Inc., So Cal Practice Management, Inc. (a
California corporation), So Cal Practice Management, Inc. (a Montana
corporation), GLC Operations, Inc., GLCI, Inc., Medlink Alliance, Inc.
(collectively “Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, alleging causes
of action for: (1) intentional fraudulent transfer; (2) fraudulent transfer;
(3) transfer resulting in debtor’s insolvency; (4) common law fraudulent
transfer; (5) aiding and abetting fraudulent transfer; (6) declaratory relief;
and (7) unjust enrichment. 
 
            On
May 31, 2023, DBPP filed a Cross-Complaint seeking declaratory relief as to the
fraudulent transfers alleged in the Complaint. Also, on May 31, 2023, MLA
Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment as to the Complaint and the
Cross-Complaint on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material
fact on the claims asserted in the Complaint and Cross-Complaint. 
            
            On
September 27, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted the motion
for summary judgment filed by MLA Defendants. (09/27/23 Minute Order.) 
 
            On
November 2, 2023, the Court entered judgment in favor of MLA Defendants and
against Plaintiffs as to the Complaint and entered judgment in favor of DBPP as
to the Cross-Complaint. The judgment provides that the right of MLA Defendants
to attorney’s fees will be determined by a subsequent motion for attorney’s
fees. 
 
            On
December 28, 2023, MLA Defendants filed and served the instant unopposed Motion
for Attorney’s Fees (the “Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion, MLA Defendants move
for an order for attorney’s fees in the amount of $68,835.00 times a multiplier
of not less than 1.5. 
 
            On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed notice of appeal indicating that they are
appealing all judgments in this case including any costs and/or attorneys’ fees
orders issued in the future. (02/02/24 Notice of Appeal.) “Although a prevailing party . . . may not
be the prevailing party after an appeal, it has been held that a motion for
attorney fees is not premature despite the filing of a notice of appeal.” (Bankes v. Lucas (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 365, 368.) Thus, despite Plaintiffs’ pending
appeal, the Court can rule on the Motion. 
 
DISCUSSION

             In general, a prevailing party may recover
attorney’s fees only when a statute or agreement of the parties provides for
fee shifting. (Kirby v. Immoos Fire Protection, Inc. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
1244, 1248.) It is well established that the determination of what constitutes
reasonable attorney fees is committed to the discretion of the trial court,
whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence of an abuse of discretion. (Melnyk
v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.) “The fee setting inquiry in
California ordinarily “begins with the ‘lodestar’ [method], i.e., the number of
hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (Graciano
v. Robinson Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 154.) The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar work. (Margolin
v. Regional Planning Com. (1982) 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004.)  
 
A computation of time spent on a case
and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a determination of an
appropriate attorneys’ fee award. (Margolin v. Regional Planning Com.,
supra, 134 Cal.App.3d 999, 1004.) The lodestar figure may then be
adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to
fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services provided. (Serrano
v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.) Such an approach anchors the trial
court’s analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney’s
services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary. (Id. at p.
48, fn. 23.) The factors considered in determining the modification of the
lodestar include (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, and (4) the
contingent nature of the fee award. (Mountjoy v. Bank of Am. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 266, 271.) The burden is on the party seeking attorney fees to
prove that the fees it seeks are reasonable. (Gorman v. Tassajara
Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 98.) An award of attorney fees
may be based on counsel’s declarations, without production of detailed time
records. (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363,
1365.) 
 
Issue No.1: Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees 
             Unless authorized by either statute or
agreement, attorney’s fees ordinarily are not recoverable as costs. (Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124, 127.) California Civil Code,
Section 1717(a) provides the following: in any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in
addition to other costs. (Civ. Code § 1717(a).) Civ. Code § 1717 was enacted to
establish mutuality of remedy where a contractual provision makes recovery of
attorney’s fees available for only one party. (Reynolds Metals Co. v.
Alperson, supra, 25 Cal.3d 124, 128.) If a contractual attorney fee
provision is phrased broadly enough, it may support an award of attorney fees
to the prevailing party in an action alleging both contract and tort claims. (Santisas
v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 608.) 
 
            MLA
Defendants contend that they are entitled to attorney’s fees since they
prevailed on Plaintiffs’ attempt to hold them liable as non-signatories to an
agreement for attorney’s fees based on MLA Defendants being alter egos/single
business enterprise. In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that MLA Defendants were
alter egos and/or single enterprise of Defendant MLA. (Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 89, 90.)
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Fishman is a board-certified occupational
medicine physician with additional training and expertise in orthopedic surgery
and urgent care medicine who was previously under contract with MLA pursuant to
a Resource Sharing Agreement. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs allege that such contract
contained a prevailing party attorneys’ fees and expense clause, which is
applicable to the instant action and Plaintiff Fishman is entitled to
attorneys’ fees and expenses in this case. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) 
 
            The
Court finds that MLA Defendants are entitled to attorney’s fees as the
prevailing parties. MLA Defendants prevailed on their motion for summary
judgment and judgment was entered in favor of MLA Defendants and against
Plaintiffs. Attorney’s fees are proper because “[h]ad plaintiff[s] prevailed on
[their] cause of action claiming defendants were in fact the alter egos” of one
another then “defendants would have been liable for attorney’s fees.” (Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson, supra, 25 Cal.3d 124, 129.) The Management
Services Agreement (the “Agreement”) entered into between MLA and Plaintiffs
contains a provision stating the following:
 
“Should either party institute any
action or proceeding, including without limitation arbitration, in connection
with, or relating to or arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing party
shall be entitled to receive from the other party all costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such action or
proceeding.” 
(Nazemi Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit A at p.
9.) 
 
            Here,
although MLA Defendants are not parties to the agreement, the language therein allows
for attorney’s fees to be awarded to MLA Defendants. Had Plaintiffs prevailed
on their claims, they would have been entitled to an award of attorney’s fees
against MLA Defendants due to the alter ego allegations. Thus, under Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson, supra, 25 Cal.3d 124, 129, MLA Defendants
are entitled to attorney’s fees. Moreover, given that the Motion is unopposed,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have conceded to the arguments concerning the
entitlement of MLA Defendants to attorney’s fees. Contentions are waived when a
party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.
(Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1215.) 
 
Issue No.2: Reasonableness of the Requested Attorney’s
Fees
            MLA
Defendants request attorney’s fees in the amount of $68,835.00 and a multiplier
of not less than 1.5. As will be explained below, MLA Defendants have not
established the reasonableness of their requested attorney’s fees. 
            
In support of the Motion, counsel for
MLA Defendants, Ronald D. Tym (“Tym”) provides a declaration. Tym states that
he is a 1979 graduate of Stanford Law School and has been practicing
continuously since that time. (Tym Decl., ¶ 3.) Tym has billed MLA Defendants
at the rate of $650.00 per hour for work in this case. (Tym Decl., ¶ 4.) Tym
spent 105.9 hours working on this case. (Tym Decl., ¶ 5.) Tym states that the
product of the hours worked times his hourly rate is $68,835.00. (Tym Decl., ¶
6.) 
 
The Court finds that MLA Defendants
have not substantiated their requested amount of attorney’s fees. MLA
Defendants did not submit any billing records or invoices in support of the
Motion. The declaration of counsel in support of the Motion does not attest to either
the reasonableness or necessity of the claimed attorney’s fees. Based on the
record before the Court, the Court cannot ascertain the reasonableness of MLA
Defendants’ claimed fees. Given that MLA Defendants seek a substantial amount
of attorney’s fees, the Court would like to review counsel’s billing entries
prior to ruling on the Motion. Although the Motion is unopposed, the Court
wants to ensure that the fees requested are reasonable. 
 
Therefore, the Court CONTINUES the
hearing on the Motion to April 29, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.. The Court ORDERS counsel
for MLA Defendants, Ronald D. Tym, to file a supplemental declaration setting
forth the reasonableness of the claimed attorney’s fees and to provide the
Court will billing records for the work done in this case. The Court orders
that the supplemental declaration be filed and served by the close of business
on Friday, April 19, 2024. 
 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
    Dated this 11th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



