  Case Number:  23VECV01030    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  T HART v.  LASALLE, et al. 23VECV01030  TENTATIVE  RULINGS 11/30/2023   CASE  MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE: The Case Management Conference is  continued from 11/30/2023 to 2/2/2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. T.  No new CMC statements are required. No meet  and confer is required. NOTICE OF  RULING AS TO THE MATTERS ON CALENDAR 11/30/2023: The clerk of the court will give  notice of ruling on these matters on calendar for 11/30/2023; no parties or  counsel may give notice of ruling.  Any  notices of ruling in violation of this order will be stricken by the court  without further notice. PROTECTIVE  ORDER: To the extent that any discovery  responses mention the need for a protective order, it is the responsibility of  the party claiming the need for the protective order to promptly request  it.  No parties may object on the grounds  of the need for a protective order and then take no action.  Such failure to timely act could be  considered discovery abuse.  If anyone  claims the need for a protective order, a motion shall be filed forthwith, or  meet and confer for a stipulated protective order using the court form. TENTATIVE  RULINGS: A.        PLAINTIFF'S  NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: CIVIL CONTEMPT AGAINST  KYLE DUPREE, LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, INC. LASALLE PROPERTY FUND REIT,  INC. DBA LPF TRIANA, INC., ASHAN K. PEIRIS AND STEVEN R PARMINTER FOR VIOLATION  OF THE SEPTEMBER 11, 2023 ORDER AND PERJURY ON THIS COURT, AND FOR MONETARY  & ISSUE SANCTIONS  Motion for issuance of OSC re  contempt: In general, an Order to Show Cause re contempt is a quasi-criminal  proceeding in which the proposed contemner is accorded most of the same rights  as a criminal defendant because one of the penalties for being found guilty  beyond a reasonable doubt of civil contempt is up to 3 days in jail per count.  Accordingly, the first step is the  issuance of the Order to Show Cause, and after personal service of the OSC,  then an arraignment and acceptance of a plea of guilty, not guilty, or no  contest, and then a civil contempt trial.    It is within the discretion of the  court whether to issue an OSC re contempt. Although the court has the statutory  power to enforce civil discovery by contempt, this drastic sanction should  rarely be used; imposing jail sentence to enforce civil discovery should be  reserved for cases in which court's dignity is truly compromised, and no other  suitable penalty is available.  In re De  La Parra (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 139, 144-145. For the reasons stated below, the  court will not issue an OSC re contempt as requested in the instant motion  filed by plaintiff. 1.        Plaintiff's Motion for an order issuing OSC re contempt  instructing Defendants and Counsel to show cause why they should not be held in  contempt for willfully violating the court's September 11, 2023 Order, by not  providing code compliant responses, for not providing truthful responses  pursuant to §2033.220, for reasserting their Preliminary Statement in their  September 15, 2023 Further Responses to RFA Set (One) as to all defendants, and  for failing to verify these Further Responses: Deny.  The court will not issue an Order to Show  Cause re Contempt on these grounds which are related to a discovery order.   This case must proceed by moving  forward with discovery with a view toward resolution of the case by settlement,  trial, or dispositive motions, and not by repeated motions for sanctions or  contempt.  The goal of litigation is not  sanctions and contempt; it is to prosecute or defend a pending lawsuit.  If there are discovery sanctions warranted,  the court will issue them in a discovery motion, not a contempt motion.  Furthermore, it is not the responsibility of  a party or counsel to file motions for awards of sanctions to the court.  If the court believes that motions for  sanctions to the court are appropriate, then the court will set hearings on its  own motions as needed.  However, for  parties or counsel to spend time seeking orders for sanctions payable to the  court is a distraction from their primary responsibilities in prosecuting or  defending the action.   The court will proceed under the  discovery act as to monetary or other sanctions and not by contempt. The court  will not make a factual determination of whether discovery answers are true or  not.  This is not a trial.  The court does not sit as a fact finder in  determining the truth of issues prior to trial.   It is for the trier of fact to determine the truth of evidence. The  court does not intend to put anyone in jail for failure to submit code  compliant responses or for reasserting their preliminary statement.  These can be handled by discovery motions for  monetary, issue, or evidence sanctions. 2.        Plaintiff's Motion for an order issuing OSC re contempt  instructing Defendants and Counsel to show cause why they should not be held in  contempt for willfully perjuring themselves in response to RFA No. 69 as to  Dupree, RFA No. 1 as to LaSalle Property Fund REIT, Inc., and RFA No. 1 as to  LaSalle Investment Management, Inc., on July 31, 2023, and August 28, 2023, and  all revolving around ownership of the subject property and their scheme to  mislead the court as to the owners are knowing the entity was terminated on  July 5, 2023: Deny. The court will not issue an Order to Show Cause re  Contempt. The court will proceed under the  Discovery Act if discovery sanctions are warranted. The court will not make a  factual determination of whether answers to discovery or statements in  pleadings are true or not.  This is not a  trial.  The court does not sit as a fact  finder in determining the truth of discovery issues prior to trial.  It is for the trier of fact to determine the  truth of evidence. 3.        Plaintiff's Motion for an order issuing OSC re contempt  instructing Defendants and Counsel to show cause why they should not be held in  contempt for willfully perjuring themselves in their Joint Answer dated  September 7, 2023 when they stated that LPF Triana, Inc. was the owner "as  of" the date of the filing of the Answer, knowing they had terminated the  entity on July 5, 2023. Deny. The court will not issue an Order to Show Cause  re Contempt. The court will not make factual  determination of whether the verified answer contains fact which are true or  untrue.  This is not a trial. The court  does not sit as a fact finder in determining the truth of these type of issues  prior to trial.  It is for the trier of  fact to determine the truth of evidence. 4.        Motion for monetary sanctions against Defendants and Counsel  under Code of Civil Procedure §§128.5, 177.5 and 1218(a), and the court's  inherent powers, for the reasons stated here. Monetary sanctions are requested  under §128.5 in the amount of $1500, under §1218 in the amount of $1000,  payable to the court: Deny.  The court will not make a factual  determination of whether the verified answer or discovery responses contain  facts which are true or untrue.  This is  not a trial. The court does not sit as a fact finder in determining the truth  of facts in this circumstance prior to trial.   It is for the trier of fact to determine the truth of evidence.  Regardless, CCP section 128.5 by  statute does not apply to disclosures and discovery requests, responses,  objections, and motions.  CCP section  128.5 motions shall be made separately from other motions or requests. CCP  section 177.5 motions requires that there be a violation of a court order and  the specific order must be identified.   CCP section 1218 applies to contempt.  The court reiterates that this  case must proceed by moving forward with discovery with a view toward  resolution of the case by settlement, trial, or dispositive motions, and not by  repeated motions for sanctions or contempt.   It is not the responsibility of a party or counsel to file motions for  awards of sanctions to the court.  If the  court believes that motions for sanctions to the court are appropriate, then  the court will set hearings on its own motions as needed.  However, for parties or counsel to spend time  seeking orders for sanctions payable to the court is a distraction from their  primary responsibilities in prosecuting or defending the action. 5.        Motion for discovery sanctions: Plaintiff's motion for an  order now deeming all further responses admitted for  violation of the 9/11/2023 Order: Deny. This  is not a contempt order. This would require a separate discovery motion with  citation to relevant statutes and authority which would allow the court to  order that future responses to request for admissions are deemed admitted. Even  so, the court is unaware of any such authority to deem future responses  admitted, even before they have been served.    6.        For an Order of terminating sanctions against these defendants  under CCP §2023.030(d) for failing to respond and or making evasive discovery  responses §2023.010(d)(f). Deny. This has been filed in the request for the OSC  re contempt and is not a contempt order; this would require a separate  discovery motion. 7.        For an Order striking these defendant's Joint Answer under  §2023.030(d)(1). Deny. This has been filed in the request for the OSC re  contempt and is not a contempt order but a request for a discovery sanction;  this would require a separate discovery motion. 8.        For an Order that if the court somehow permits these  unverified improper responses to stand, that Mr. Dupree be ordered to sit for  at a minimum of 3 days to state on the record the "diligent" search  he did: Deny. This has been filed in the motion for issuance of an OSC re  contempt and the request is not a contempt order. This would require an order  under CCP section 2025.290(a) for additional time for a deposition. B.        PLAINTIFF'S  MOTION TO COMPEL INSPECTION AS TO RFP 2 AGAINST DEFENDANT LEGACY PARTNERS:  Grant as to all non-common areas if not already done.  Parties are to meet in the lobby and then  inspect the areas requested as demanded on __________ at _____.        If inspection  has been already done, then moot.   Monetary sanctions in the amount  of $337.65 against defendant Legacy Partners and Justin Bubion, jointly and  severally, for discovery abuse without substantial justification pursuant to  CCP sections 2023.010 and 2023.050 payable by 12/30/2023 to plaintiff Shelly  Hart, 21781 Ventura Blvd., No. 311, Woodland Hills, CA 91364.  Otherwise, denied.  The motion was required in order to get the  inspection.   C.        PLAINTIFF'S  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND PRODUCTION TO RFP SET 1 AND REQUEST FOR  SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT LEGACY PARTNERS:  Preliminary definitions are stricken.  Instructions are stricken.  They are not  allowed by Code. RFP Nos. 1 - 126 Grant.  The responses were not Code compliant. The  court orders strict Code compliant responses with privilege logs. The documents  are relevant to the subject matter of the case or may lead to the discovery of  admissible evidence.  No privilege log  was attached.  Except for attorney client  privilege and attorney work product, all objections are overruled.  Documents, except for those in the attorney  client privilege and attorney work product privilege log, shall be produced by  paginating each page and indicating which pages are responsive to which request  for production. (Example: RFP#1: Pgs. 1-25, 76-90, 203-207, RFP#2: Pgs. 27-400,  425-426, etc.)  As to RFP#4, only deeds  transferring title shall be identified and produced. Verified Code complaint  responses and production, including privilege log, due within 20 days. Monetary sanctions in the amount  of $337.65 against defendant Legacy Partners and Justin Bubion, jointly and  severally, for discovery abuse without substantial justification pursuant to  CCP sections 2023.010 and 2023.050 payable by 12/30/2023 to plaintiff Shelly  Hart, 21781 Ventura Blvd., No. 311, Woodland Hills, CA 91364.  Otherwise, denied. D.        PLAINTIFF'S  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET. 1 AND  REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT LEGACY PARTNERS Preliminary definitions are not  allowed and are stricken. Instructions are stricken. If the court's order below  is "Grant" then verified answers without objections due within 20  days, except any answer which is solely based on an attorney client  communication, in which case the court ordered answer must so state that it is  solely based on attorney client communication.   The court does not find waiver of attorney client communications as  there is no indication that the client intended to waive attorney client  privilege.  If the communications were  disclosed to, or include 3rd parties, the privilege does not apply. If the  court's order below is "Deny" then it sustains objections as to  vague, ambiguous, and/or overbroad, and overrules other objections. Monetary sanctions in the amount  of $86.75 against defendant Legacy Partners and Justin Bubion, jointly and  severally, for discovery abuse without substantial justification pursuant to  CCP section 2023.010 payable by 12/30/2023 to plaintiff Shelly Hart, 21781 Ventura  Blvd., No. 311, Woodland Hills, CA 91364.   Otherwise, denied. 1. Deny 2. Deny 3. Grant  4. Grant 5. Grant 6. Grant 7. Grant 8. Grant 9. Grant 10. Deny 11. Deny 12. Grant 13. Deny 14. Grant 15. Grant 16. Deny 17. Deny 18. Deny 19. Grant 20. Grant 21. Grant 22. Deny 23. Deny 24. Deny 25. Deny 26. Deny 27. Deny 28. Deny 29. Deny 30. Grant 31. Grant 32. Deny 33. Deny 34. Deny 35. Deny 36. Deny 37. Deny 38. Grant 39. Grant 40. Grant 41. Grant 42. Deny 43. Deny 44. Deny 45. Deny 46. Grant 47. Deny 48. Deny 49. Deny 50. Deny 51. Deny 52. Deny 53. Deny 54. Deny 55. Deny 56. Deny 57. Deny 58. Deny 59. Deny 60. Deny 61. Deny 62. Deny 63. Grant 64. Grant 65. Deny 66. Grant 67. Grant 68. Grant 69. Deny 70. Deny 71. Deny 72. Deny 73. Grant 74. Grant 75. Grant 76. Grant 77. Deny 78. Grant 79. Grant 80. Deny 81. Deny 82. Deny 83. Deny 84. Deny 85. Deny 86. Deny 87. Grant 88. Deny 89. Deny 90. Deny 91. Deny 92. Grant 93. Grant 94. Grant 95. Grant 96. Deny 97. Grant 98. Grant 99. Grant 100. Grant 101. Grant 102. Grant 103. Grant 104. Grant 105. Grant 106. Deny 107. Grant 108. Deny 109. Grant 110. Grant 111. Deny 112. Deny 113. Deny 114. Deny 115. Deny  E.       OSC  RE SANCTIONS AGAINST WILSON, ELSER FOR FAILURE TO SERVE CROSS-COMPLAINT:  The OSC is discharged as moot. The cross-complaint has been dismissed.  F.        PLAINTIFF  SHELLY HART'S DEMURRER TO DEFENDANT LEGACY PARTNERS, INC.'S ANSWER:  The demurrer is SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer to the third through fifth,  ninth, eleventh through thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth, twenty-eighth  through thirty-first, and thirty-fourth affirmative defenses is SUSTAINED WITH  20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend  is limited to curing the defects identified below and for no other purpose. No  new AD's may be alleged. The demurrer to the seventh affirmative defense is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The  demurrer to the first, second, sixth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth  through twenty-seventh, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and  thirty-sixth affirmative defenses is OVERRULED.    Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  demurred to Defendant Legacy Partners Inc.'s (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue all thirty-six  Affirmative Defenses (AD).    Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the ADs  failed to plead facts to support each defense.   In general, any issue on which defendant bears the burden of proof at  trial is "new matter" and must be specifically pleaded with  supportive facts.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  431.30(b); Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239.)  "However, '[n]o error or defect in a  pleading is to be regarded unless it affects substantial rights.  [Internal citations omitted.]  The primary function of a pleading is to give  the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [Internal citation  omitted], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party  cannot be said to affect substantial rights.   (Harris v. City of Santa Monica, supra, 56 Cal.4th at p. 240.)  Matters negating essential allegations of the  complaint are not "new matter" but only a contradiction of the  allegation.  (City of Santa Barbara v.  Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 780.)   The following ADs are seen to be matters negating essential allegations  of the Complaint and need not plead specific facts showing new matter:  the first AD for "pre-existing or  unrelated medical condition" (i.e., denial of causation); the second AD  for failure to mitigate (i.e., denial of damages), sixth AD for consent (i.e.,  denial of breach), eighth AD for failure to state a cause of action, tenth AD  for conformity of laws and regulations (i.e., denial of breach), fourteenth AD  for unjust enrichment, twentieth AD for excuse of performance, twenty-first AD  for satisfaction of contractual obligations, twenty-second AD for good faith,  twenty-third AD for failure to provide basis to award compensatory damages,  twenty-fourth AD for privilege, twenty-fifth AD for performance of obligations,  twenty-sixth AD for conduct of Defendant not substantial factor, twenty-seventh  AD for limitation on damages, thirty-second AD for lawful conduct, thirty-third  AD for no damages suffered, thirty-fifth AD for litigation privilege, and  thirty-sixth AD for bona fide error and correction.   Plaintiff's demurrer to the first,  second, sixth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth through twenty-seventh,  thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and thirty-sixth ADs is  OVERRULED.   The third AD for joint and several  liability, fourth AD for indemnity, fifth AD for contribution, ninth AD for  assumption of risk, eleventh AD for intervening/superseding actions, twelfth AD  for negligence of others/apportionment of fault, thirteenth AD for contributory  negligence/comparative fault, fifteenth AD for waiver, sixteenth AD for timely  abatement, seventeenth AD for reasonable remedial measures, eighteenth AD for  breach of lease, nineteenth AD for estoppel, twenty-eighth AD for laches,  twenty-ninth AD for unclean hands, thirtieth AD for failure to do equity,  thirty-first AD for joinder in co-defendants' ADs, and thirty-fourth AD for  reasonable and/or exigent circumstances are all grounded on the non-feasance or  misfeasance of Plaintiff, Co-Defendants, or unnamed defendants.  However, there are no facts pled to allege  the non-feasance or misfeasance of these parties.  The ADs are conclusory.  The allegations do not place Plaintiff on  notice of the facts that support the defenses alleged by Defendant.  Because Plaintiff is not properly notified of  the facts to support the defenses, the Answer is insufficiently pled. The demurrer to the third through  fifth, ninth, eleventh through thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth,  twenty-eighth through thirty-first, and thirty-fourth ADs is SUSTAINED WITH  LEAVE TO AMEND. The seventh AD is a reservation of  rights to amend/add new ADs and not new matter.   However, this is not a legally recognized affirmative defense.   The demurrer to the seventh AD is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff's arguments based upon  facts garnered from discovery in the instant action or the prior actions were  not considered because facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e.,  Defendant's Answer) are not proper for consideration on a demurrer.  Arguments as to the veracity or validity of  the alleged defenses or their lack of evidentiary support are not proper for a  demurrer because a demurrer only challenges the pleading defects on the face of  the Answer.  At this pleading stage, the  allegations in the Answer are deemed true.    Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  The Court does not find that the ADs are  duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  additional documents is not considered   because facts outside the four corners of the pleading and facts not  judicially noticeable are not proper for demurrer.  Plaintiff is directed to please not include  outside facts and exhibits for future demurrers. Plaintiff's declaration is  only considered in so far as it showed that Plaintiff attempted to meet and  confer.   G.        PLAINTIFF SHELLY HART'S DEMURRER TO DEFENDANT DEANNA O'BRIEN'S  ANSWER is SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer to the third through fifth,  ninth, eleventh through thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth, twenty-eighth  through thirty-first, and thirty-fourth affirmative defenses is SUSTAINED WITH  20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend  is limited to curing the defects identified below and for no other purpose. No  new AD's may be alleged. The demurrer to the seventh affirmative defense is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The  demurrer to the first, second, sixth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth  through twenty-seventh, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and  thirty-sixth affirmative defenses is OVERRULED.    Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  demurred to Defendant Deanna O'Brien's (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue all thirty-six  Affirmative Defenses (AD).    Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the ADs  failed to plead facts to support each defense.   In general, any issue on which defendant bears the burden of proof at  trial is "new matter" and must be specifically pleaded with  supportive facts.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  431.30(b); Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239.)  "However, '[n]o error or defect in a  pleading is to be regarded unless it affects substantial rights.  [Internal citations omitted.]  The primary function of a pleading is to give  the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [Internal citation  omitted], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party  cannot be said to affect substantial rights.   (Harris v. City of Santa Monica, supra, 56 Cal.4th at p. 240.)  Matters negating essential allegations of the  complaint are not "new matter" but only a contradiction of the  allegation.  (City of Santa Barbara v.  Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 780.)   The following ADs are seen to be matters negating essential allegations  of the Complaint and need not plead specific facts showing new matter:  the first AD for "pre-existing or  unrelated medical condition" (i.e., denial of causation); the second AD  for failure to mitigate (i.e., denial of damages), sixth AD for consent (i.e.,  denial of breach), eighth AD for failure to state a cause of action, tenth AD  for conformity of laws and regulations (i.e., denial of breach), fourteenth AD  for unjust enrichment, twentieth AD for excuse of performance, twenty-first AD  for satisfaction of contractual obligations, twenty-second AD for good faith,  twenty-third AD for failure to provide basis to award compensatory damages,  twenty-fourth AD for privilege, twenty-fifth AD for performance of obligations,  twenty-sixth AD for conduct of Defendant not substantial factor, twenty-seventh  AD for limitation on damages, thirty-second AD for lawful conduct, thirty-third  AD for no damages suffered, thirty-fifth AD for litigation privilege, and  thirty-sixth AD for bona fide error and correction.   Plaintiff's demurrer to the first,  second, sixth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth through twenty-seventh,  thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and thirty-sixth ADs is  OVERRULED.   The third AD for joint and several  liability, fourth AD for indemnity, fifth AD for contribution, ninth AD for  assumption of risk, eleventh AD for intervening/superseding actions, twelfth AD  for negligence of others/apportionment of fault, thirteenth AD for contributory  negligence/comparative fault, fifteenth AD for waiver, sixteenth AD for timely  abatement, seventeenth AD for reasonable remedial measures, eighteenth AD for  breach of lease, nineteenth AD for estoppel, twenty-eighth AD for laches,  twenty-ninth AD for unclean hands, thirtieth AD for failure to do equity,  thirty-first AD for joinder in co-defendants' ADs, and thirty-fourth AD for  reasonable and/or exigent circumstances are all grounded on the non-feasance or  misfeasance of Plaintiff, Co-Defendants, or unnamed defendants.  However, there are no facts pled to allege  the non-feasance or misfeasance of these parties.  The ADs are conclusory.  The allegations do not place Plaintiff on  notice of the facts that support the defenses alleged by Defendant.  Because Plaintiff is not properly notified of  the facts to support the defenses, the Answer is insufficiently pled. The demurrer to the third through  fifth, ninth, eleventh through thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth,  twenty-eighth through thirty-first, and thirty-fourth ADs is SUSTAINED WITH  LEAVE TO AMEND. The seventh AD is a reservation of  rights to amend/add new ADs and not new matter.   However, this is not a legally recognized affirmative defense.   The demurrer to the seventh AD is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff's arguments based upon  facts garnered from discovery in the instant action or the prior actions were  not considered because facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e.,  Defendant's Answer) are not proper for consideration on a demurrer.  Arguments as to the veracity or validity of  the alleged defenses or their lack of evidentiary support are not proper for a  demurrer because a demurrer only challenges the pleading defects on the face of  the Answer.  At this pleading stage, the  allegations in the Answer are deemed true.    Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  The Court does not find that the ADs are  duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  additional documents is not considered because facts outside the four corners  of the pleading and facts not judicially noticeable are not proper for  demurrer.  Plaintiff's declaration is  only considered in so far as it showed that Plaintiff attempted to meet and  confer.   H.        PLAINTIFF  SHELLY HART'S DEMURRER TO DEFENDANT STEVEN SAPP'S ANSWER  is SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in Part.   The demurrer to the third through fifth, ninth, eleventh through  thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth, twenty-eighth through thirty-first,  and thirty-fourth affirmative defenses is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO  AMEND. Leave to amend is limited to curing the defects identified below and for  no other purpose. No new AD's may be alleged. The demurrer to the seventh  affirmative defense is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The demurrer to the first, second, sixth,  eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth through twenty-seventh, thirty-second,  thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and thirty-sixth affirmative defenses is  OVERRULED.   Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  demurred to Defendant Steven Sapp's (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue all thirty-six  Affirmative Defenses (AD).    Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the ADs  failed to plead facts to support each defense.   In general, any issue on which defendant bears the burden of proof at  trial is "new matter" and must be specifically pleaded with  supportive facts.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  431.30(b); Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 239.)  "However, '[n]o error or defect in a  pleading is to be regarded unless it affects substantial rights.  [Internal citations omitted.]  The primary function of a pleading is to give  the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [Internal citation  omitted], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party  cannot be said to affect substantial rights.   (Harris v. City of Santa Monica, supra, 56 Cal.4th at p. 240.)  Matters negating essential allegations of the  complaint are not "new matter" but only a contradiction of the  allegation.  (City of Santa Barbara v.  Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 780.)   The following ADs are seen to be matters negating essential allegations  of the Complaint and need not plead specific facts showing new matter:  the first AD for "pre-existing or  unrelated medical condition" (i.e., denial of causation); the second AD  for failure to mitigate (i.e., denial of damages), sixth AD for consent (i.e.,  denial of breach), eighth AD for failure to state a cause of action, tenth AD  for conformity of laws and regulations (i.e., denial of breach), fourteenth AD  for unjust enrichment, twentieth AD for excuse of performance, twenty-first AD  for satisfaction of contractual obligations, twenty-second AD for good faith,  twenty-third AD for failure to provide basis to award compensatory damages,  twenty-fourth AD for privilege, twenty-fifth AD for performance of obligations,  twenty-sixth AD for conduct of Defendant not substantial factor, twenty-seventh  AD for limitation on damages, thirty-second AD for lawful conduct, thirty-third  AD for no damages suffered, thirty-fifth AD for litigation privilege, and  thirty-sixth AD for bona fide error and correction.   Plaintiff's demurrer to the first,  second, sixth, eighth, tenth, fourteenth, twentieth through twenty-seventh,  thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fifth, and thirty-sixth ADs is  OVERRULED.   The third AD for joint and several  liability, fourth AD for indemnity, fifth AD for contribution, ninth AD for  assumption of risk, eleventh AD for intervening/superseding actions, twelfth AD  for negligence of others/apportionment of fault, thirteenth AD for contributory  negligence/comparative fault, fifteenth AD for waiver, sixteenth AD for timely  abatement, seventeenth AD for reasonable remedial measures, eighteenth AD for  breach of lease, nineteenth AD for estoppel, twenty-eighth AD for laches,  twenty-ninth AD for unclean hands, thirtieth AD for failure to do equity,  thirty-first AD for joinder in co-defendants' ADs, and thirty-fourth AD for  reasonable and/or exigent circumstances are all grounded on the non-feasance or  misfeasance of Plaintiff, Co-Defendants, or unnamed defendants.  However, there are no facts pled to allege  the non-feasance or misfeasance of these parties.  The ADs are conclusory.  The allegations do not place Plaintiff on  notice of the facts that support the defenses alleged by Defendant.  Because Plaintiff is not properly notified of  the facts to support the defenses, the Answer is insufficiently pled. The demurrer to the third through  fifth, ninth, eleventh through thirteenth, fifteenth through nineteenth,  twenty-eighth through thirty-first, and thirty-fourth ADs is SUSTAINED WITH  LEAVE TO AMEND. The seventh AD is a reservation of  rights to amend/add new ADs and not new matter.   However, this is not a legally recognized affirmative defense.   The demurrer to the seventh AD is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff's arguments based upon  facts garnered from discovery in the instant action or the prior actions were  not considered because facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e.,  Defendant's Answer) are not proper for consideration on a demurrer.  Arguments as to the veracity or validity of  the alleged defenses or their lack of evidentiary support are not proper for a  demurrer because a demurrer only challenges the pleading defects on the face of  the Answer. At this pleading stage, the allegations in the Answer are deemed  true for purposes of the demurrer.   Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  The Court does not find that the ADs are  duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  additional documents is not considered because facts outside the four corners  of the pleading and facts not judicially noticeable are not proper for  demurrer.  Plaintiff's declaration is  only considered in so far as it showed that Plaintiff attempted to meet and  confer. I.         PLAINTIFF  SHELLY HART'S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT LEGACY PARTNERS INC.'S ANSWER  is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.   The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the General Denial  only, and otherwise DENIED.   Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  moved to strike Defendant Legacy Partners Inc.'s (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue the general  denial, all thirty-six Affirmative Defenses (AD), the prayer for relief, and  specific allegations within the ADs.   Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the general  denial is improper because the complaint is verified. (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  431.30(d).)  Defendant did not present  facts/legal authority to dispute the argument.   Plaintiff's argument against the "general denial" is  persuasive. Plaintiff's motion to strike the  "general denial" in the Answer is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO  AMEND.   Plaintiff argued that all the ADs,  certain specific allegations in the ADs, and the prayer are irrelevant, false,  or improper.  In order for a claim in the  Answer to be deemed false, it must amount to a sham pleading based upon the  facts within the pleading.  (Ricard v.  Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th  157, 162.)  Plaintiff's arguments  disputing the veracity and validity of the claims in the Answer and/or  asserting the lack of evidentiary support are not proper because Plaintiff's  arguments rely upon facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e., facts  garnered from prior actions or facts within Plaintiff's own knowledge).   Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  Assuming without finding redundancy/duplicity  is a proper basis for a motion to strike, the Court does not find that the ADs  are duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.     Plaintiff's arguments that the ADs  lack supportive fact pleading mirror the arguments made in the Demurrer.  Lacking factual pleading is not grounds to  show irrelevance, falsity, or impropriety.   Plaintiff's arguments regarding lack of factual pleading is addressed in  the ruling on the demurrer and not reviewed under the motion to strike.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  additional documents is not considered because facts outside the four corners  of the pleading and facts not judicially noticeable are not proper for a motion  to strike.  Plaintiff's declaration is  only considered in so far as it showed that Plaintiff attempted to meet and  confer.   Plaintiff's arguments as to each  AD, the specific allegations within the ADs, and the prayer  are not persuasive. The motion to strike each AD, the  specific allegations with the ADs, and the prayer is DENIED.   J.         PLAINTIFF SHELLY HART'S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT DEANNA  O'BRIEN'S ANSWER is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.  The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND  as to the General Denial only, and otherwise DENIED.   Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  moved to strike Defendant Deanna O'Brien's (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue the general  denial,  all thirty-six Affirmative Defenses  (AD), the prayer for relief, and specific allegations within the ADs.   Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the general  denial is improper because the complaint is verified.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 431.30(d).)  Defendant did not present facts/legal  authority to dispute the argument.   Plaintiff's argument against the "general denial" is  persuasive. Plaintiff's motion to strike the  "general denial" in the Answer is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO  AMEND.   Plaintiff argued that all the ADs,  certain specific allegations in the ADs, and the prayer are irrelevant, false,  or improper.  In order for a claim in the  Answer to be deemed false, it must amount to a sham pleading based upon the  facts within the pleading.  (Ricard v.  Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th  157, 162.)  Plaintiff's arguments  disputing the veracity and validity of the claims in the Answer and/or  asserting the lack of evidentiary support are not proper because Plaintiff's  arguments rely upon facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e., facts  garnered from prior actions or facts within Plaintiff's own knowledge).   Plaintiff's arguments that the ADs  lack supportive fact pleading mirror the arguments made in the Demurrer.  Lacking factual pleading is not grounds to  show irrelevance, falsity, or impropriety.   Plaintiff's arguments regarding lack of factual pleading is addressed in  the ruling on the demurrer and not reviewed under the motion to strike.   Plaintiff's arguments as to each  AD, the specific allegations within the ADs, and the prayer  are not persuasive. Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  Assuming without finding redundancy/duplicity  is a proper basis for a motion to strike, the Court does not find that the ADs  are duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  a copy of Co-Defendant Steven Sapp's LinkedIn webpage is not considered because  facts outside the four corners of the pleading and facts not judicially  noticeable are not proper for motions to strike. The motion to strike each AD, the  specific allegations with the ADs, and the prayer is DENIED.   K.        PLAINTIFF  SHELLY HART'S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT STEVEN SAPP'S ANSWER  is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.   The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the General Denial  only, and otherwise DENIED.   Introduction  Plaintiff Shelly Hart (Plaintiff)  moved to strike Defendant Steven Sapp's (Defendant) Answer.  Plaintiff placed into issue the general  denial,  all thirty-six Affirmative  Defenses (AD), the prayer for relief, and specific allegations within the  ADs.   Discussion   Plaintiff argued that the general  denial is improper because the complaint is verified.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 431.30(d).)  Defendant did not present facts/legal  authority to dispute the argument.   Plaintiff's argument against the "general denial" is  persuasive. Plaintiff's motion to strike the  "general denial" in the Answer is GRANTED. WITHOUT LEAVE TO  AMEND.   Plaintiff argued that all the ADs,  certain specific allegations in the ADs, and the prayer are irrelevant, false,  or improper.  In order for a claim in the  Answer to be deemed false, it must amount to a sham pleading based upon the  facts within the pleading.  (Ricard v.  Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel, LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th  157, 162.)  Plaintiff's arguments  disputing the veracity and validity of the claims in the Answer and/or  asserting the lack of evidentiary support are not proper because Plaintiff's  arguments rely upon facts outside the four corners of the pleading (i.e., facts  garnered from prior actions or facts within Plaintiff's own knowledge).   Plaintiff's arguments that the ADs  lack supportive fact pleading mirror the arguments made in the Demurrer.  Lacking factual pleading is not grounds to  show irrelevance, falsity, or impropriety.   Plaintiff's arguments regarding lack of factual pleading is addressed in  the ruling on the demurrer and not reviewed under the motion to strike.   Plaintiff's arguments as to each  AD, the specific allegations within the ADs, and the prayer  are not persuasive. Plaintiff argued that certain ADs  are redundant (a.k.a. duplicative) of other ADs.  Assuming without finding redundancy/duplicity  is a proper basis for a motion to strike, the Court does not find that the ADs  are duplicative because they are based upon different contentions/facts.  The redundancy argument is unpersuasive.   Plaintiff's declaration attaching  a copy of Defendant's LinkedIn webpage is not considered because facts outside  the four corners of the pleading and facts not judicially noticeable are not  proper for motions to strike. The motion to strike each AD, the  specific allegations with the ADs, and the prayer is DENIED.   