 Case Number:  23VECV03301    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV03301 RELIABLE v
WAYPOINT
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiff Reliable Permit Solutions, LLC’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. the court will issue the same order as the
TRO as a Permanent Injunction once the undertaking is paid and confirmation
provided to the court. Objections are separately ruled on. In the
interim, the TRO will remain in effect.  
The matter of an undertaking to
be posted by Plaintiff Reliable Permit Solutions, LLC is CONTINUED for
supplemental briefing and evidence.  Arguments in the supplemental
briefs as to the amount of the undertaking are limited to 10 pages including
declarations.  The briefing schedule is as
follows:  Continued hearing is scheduled for ________, 2023 at 8:30
a.m., papers in support of an undertaking to be filed and served by defendants
by _________, opposition to be filed and served by plaintiff by ___________,
and reply by defendants to be filed and served by _____.  All papers
to be eserved and efiled.  TRO is extended through ____________, 2023
or issuance of the Preliminary Injunction, whichever is earlier.
Introduction
Plaintiff Reliable Permit
Solutions, LLC (Plaintiff) moved for a preliminary injunction enjoining
Defendants Waypoint Permits LLC (Waypoint), Ben Lopez, and Nancy Lopez
(collectively, Defendants) from soliciting and doing business with Plaintiff’s
customers and utilizing Plaintiff’s customer list (List), client entry system
(CES), and credentials to access any permit application or acquisition system
(Credentials) (collectively, Personal Property).
Discussion 
To obtain a preliminary
injunction, Plaintiff has the burden to show with admissible evidence: (1) that
there is a reasonable probability or some possibility of prevailing on the
merits and (2) the relative balance of harms that is likely to result from the
granting or denial of the preliminary injunction.  (White v. Davis
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554; Integrated Dynamic Sols., Inc. v. VitaVet Labs,
Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1183.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleged
eight causes of action (COA): conversion, misappropriation of trade secrets,
breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, intentional
interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage, and unfair competition.  The COAs can be divided into COAs
based upon statute (i.e., misappropriation and unfair competition), tort (i.e.,
conversion, fiduciary duty, fraud, interference), and contract (i.e., breach of
contract).  The gravamen of the COAs is Plaintiff’s claim that
Defendants improperly took for their own benefit Plaintiff’s Personal
Property.  (Compl. pars. 11, 15, 27, 32-33, 44, 50, 56, 64, 73, 79,
and 88.)  Plaintiff submitted the declaration of Peter Lehrack to
show that the Personal Property was confidential and Defendants, specifically
Defendant Ben Lopez, probably improperly took the Personal Property, disclosed
it to Waypoint for Defendants’ benefit.  (Lehrack Decl. pars. 3-4,
7-11; Ryan Nelson Decl. pars. 4-5.) It is noted that the testimony is
circumstantial as to whether Ben Lopez took pictures of Plaintiff’s customer
list in that neither Mr. Lehrack nor Mr. Nelson directly witnessed or testified
that Ben Lopez took pictures of Plaintiff’s customer list.  However,
with the other testimony showing that Ben Lopez started Waypoint months before
he left Reliable, and Waypoint taking over Plaintiff’s client accounts before,
at or near the time that Ben Lopez resigned from his position with Plaintiff,
there is sufficient evidence to show a reasonable probability that Plaintiff
will prevail on some of its claims. 
To dispute Plaintiff’s evidence
asserting that Ben Lopez improperly took Plaintiff’s Personal Property,
Defendants provided the declaration of Ben Lopez, who denied improperly taking
Plaintiff’s Personal Property and/or testified that he only contacted Plaintiff’s
clients to notify them that he separated from Plaintiff and that it was the
clients that sought to change their accounts to Waypoint.  (Ben Lopez
Decl. par. 12.)  Ben Lopez also disputed that Defendants used
Plaintiff’s CES or Credentials.  (Ben Lopez Decl. pars.
13-14.)    Because the standard of proof is minimal,
Defendants’ evidence to dispute Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficient to
overcome Plaintiff’s showing that there is a reasonable probability of
prevailing on the merits.   Furthermore, Waypoint clearly did
use Reliable's credentials to issue at least one permit.
Specifically as to the
misappropriation COA, Defendants argued that the Employee Handbook was not a
confidentiality agreement and did not contain a confidentiality
provision.  The confidentiality provision in the Employee Handbook
stated: 
“Our clients and other parties
with whom we do business entrust the company
with  important  information relating to their
businesses.  It is our policy that all information considered
confidential will not be disclosed to external parties or to employees without
a “need to know.”  If an employee questions whether certain
information is considered confidential, he/she should first check with his/her
immediate supervisor.  This policy is intended to alert employees to
the need for discretion at all times and is not intended to inhibit normal
business communications.”  (Lehrack Decl., Exh. 1, pg.
18.)" 
The provision was broadly drafted
and stated that “all information” was considered confidential.  The
provision expressly prohibited disclosure to external parties and even
employees within Plaintiff’s employ that did not need to know.  The
provision further outlined a process for an employee to determine if certain
information was confidential by requiring employees to ask a
supervisor.  The intent of the policy further required employees to
be discrete as to “all information.”  The provision is sufficiently
drafted to show a confidentiality provision. 
Just above the signature line,
the Employee Handbook expressly stated that “the handbook is neither a contract
of employment nor a legal document.”  (Lehrack Decl., Exh. 1, pg.
5.)  However, confidentiality or trade secret is not determined
solely on whether a confidentiality agreement exists or not and whether the
Employee Handbook is a legal document or not.  Such facts can be one
of many facts in determining trade secret status but it is not
determinative.  In part, trade secret status requires facts to show
“efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its
secrecy.”  (Civ. Code, sec. 3426.1(d).)  The Employee
Handbook is sufficient to show, at minimum, a policy to maintain
confidentiality of “all information” and a prohibition from disclosing same to
“external parties” (i.e., Waypoint) or even other employees within Plaintiff’s
employ.  The facts presented sufficiently show the existence of a
confidentiality provision and a policy to maintain “all information” a
secret. 
Confidentiality is not the only
legal issue.  The evidence was undisputed
that Mr. Lopez created the competing business Waypoint almost a year before he
left Reliable, that during that time, his wife had left Reliable, and that
another Reliable employee left while Mr. Lopez was still working for Reliable
to work for Waypoint creating the implication that Ben Lopez' business was in
competition with Reliable while he was still working for Reliable.  There
is no dispute that Nancy Lopez worked for Waypoint as she is the one who placed
the permit order in July 2023 using Reliable's credentials, as shown on the
Texas permit and there is no dispute that one of Reliable's employees left
Reliable to work for Ben Lopez' company, Waypoint, while Ben Lopez was still
working at Reliable.
Notably, defendants do not
clearly declare the following:
1.           That Waypoint was not doing business with any of
Reliable's former or current clients while Ben Lopez was still working at
Reliable.
2.           That Waypoint was not doing business in competition with
Reliable while Ben Lopez was still working at Reliable.
According to Mr. Lopez, his wife
left Reliable on 12/30/2022 and he left Reliable on 6/12/2023.  Defendants
do not deny that Waypoint, a competitor of Reliable, was established 8/2/2022
while both Nancy and Ben Lopez were still employed by Reliable.  They
do not dispute that Mr. Avina, who worked for Reliable, left and went to work
for Waypoint while Ben Lopez was still working for Reliable.  
In light of evidence that Mr.
Lopez started a competing company with his current employer in August 2022,
almost a year before he left his current employer, and was doing
business with Reliable clients at Waypoint, the issuance of an injunction is
justified. 
Finally, regardless of the
employee handbook, defendants also do not address existing California law
concerning the duty of loyalty by employee to his employer and the obligation
not to compete with his employer while he is still employed. 
Plaintiff sufficiently provided
facts to show a reasonable probability of prevailing on the merits.
In balancing the relative harms,
“[a]n evaluation of the relative harm to the parties upon the granting or
denial of a preliminary injunction requires consideration of: ‘(1) the
inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of irreparable injury the denial
of the injunction will cause; (3) the necessity to preserve the status quo;
[and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the public interest or interests of
third parties the granting of the injunction will cause.’”  (Vo v.
City of Garden Grove (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.)  Plaintiff
testified that their revenue dropped 32% (weighted) since Ben Lopez departed
and dropped 20% (unweighted).  (Lehrack Decl. par.
12.)   
Defendants asserted, without any
evidence, that they will be harmed because Waypoint will not be able to operate
and Waypoint is the Lopez family’s only source of income.  (Ben Lopez
Decl. par. 15.)  There is no explanation how or why this would be
true. 
Defendants’ assertion appears to
be based upon a misunderstanding of the requested activity to be
enjoined.  Plaintiff is only seeking Defendants be prohibited from
using Plaintiff’s Client List, CES or Credentials, and to prohibit them from
doing business with Reliable's clients who went to Waypoint while Ben Lopez was
still employed by Reliable.  There is no request to shut down
Defendants’ business unless all of their clients came to Waypoint while Mr.
Lopez still worked for Reliable.  Defendants merely cannot continue
to do business with plaintiff's clients whom defendants began working with
while defendant Ben Lopez was still employed by plaintiff.
Plaintiff met their burden on the
motion for preliminary injunction and the motion for preliminary injunction is
GRANTED on the same grounds as the TRO.
If the preliminary injunction is
granted, an undertaking is required (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 529) to cover
damages to the defendants caused by issuance of the injunction, if it is
finally determined that plaintiff was not entitled to the
injunction.   Neither party addressed the undertaking
requirement in their briefs.  Without evidence showing the amount of
damages that may be suffered from an improvidently-issued injunction, the Court
cannot make any determinations on the undertaking.
The issue on the amount of
undertaking is CONTINUED for supplemental briefing and supplemental
evidence.  The arguments in the parties’ supplemental briefs are
limited to 10 pages including declarations. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.