  Case Number:  24STCP0009476    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NKSFB, LLC,  
 
  
         vs.
 
JOSEPH KEELS.


 Case No.: 
  24STCP00947 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 13, 2024



 
Petitioner NKSFB,
LLC’s unopposed petition to confirm the contractual arbitration award is
granted.
 
          Petitioner
NKSFB, LLC (“NKSFB”) (“Petitioner”) petitions this Court unopposed to
confirm the contractual arbitration award issued in its favor and against
Respondent Joseph Keels AKA Joseph E. Keels AKA Joe Keels (“Keels”)
(“Respondent”).  (See Petition,
pg. 1.)
 
Background
This dispute arises from Petitioner’s
assertion of claims for conversion, money had and received, and unjust
enrichment pursuant to which it sought the return of $152,721.90, which was
paid to Respondent after his termination, which Respondent allegedly did not earn,
and he admitted he was not entitled to but has failed to repay to Petitioner.  (Petition ¶5.) 
Petitioner and Respondent agreed to binding arbitration on October 7,
2019, pursuant to an employment related Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate
(“Agreement”).  (Petition ¶¶4(a), (c);
Attachment 4(b) at ¶7.)
The Arbitration hearing occurred on August
21, 2023, before Arbitrator Hon. Glenda Sanders (Ret.), wherein Respondent did
not appear, despite service of the Notice of Zoom Hearing.  (Petition ¶¶6-7; Attachment 8c at pg. 1.)  Arbitrator Sanders issued the Arbitration Award
on November 16, 2023, requiring Respondent to pay Petitioner $152,721.90, plus
prejudgment interest in the amount of 10% of the damages per annum beginning
November 14, 2022, through to the date of payment.  (Petition ¶8; Attachment 8c at pgs. 12-13.) 
Petitioner filed the instant petition on March
25, 2024.  As of the date of this hearing
no opposition has been filed.
 
Arbitration Award
          The party
seeking judicial enforcement of a private arbitration award has the burden of
proving the award as well as the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.  (Toal v. Tardif (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1223 [holding burden not met by submitting copy of
contract with arbitration provision signed by party’s attorney rather than by
party personally].)
The specific grounds upon which an arbitrator’s award may
be vacated are set forth in C.C.P. §1286.2.  Except for such grounds, arbitration awards
are
immune from judicial review.  (See Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 10-11 [limiting grounds for judicial review effectuates the
parties’ agreement that the award be final and also reflects that arbitrators
need not follow the law and may base their decisions on “broad principles of
justice and equity . . . paths neither marked nor traceable by judicial review”].)  Generally, errors of law committed by the
arbitrator are not grounds for challenging the arbitration award.  (Id. at pg. 11.)  The sufficiency of evidence to support the
award is immaterial and courts cannot review the same.  (See Morris v. Zuckerman (1968) 69
Cal.2d. 686, 691.)  Courts cannot pass
upon the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning and cannot substitute its
judgment for that of the arbitrator.  (See
Moncharsh, 3 Cal.4th at pg. 11.)
          Petitioner
has met its burden to prove the arbitration award and the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement.  (Petition ¶¶4(a), (c); Attachments 4(b) at ¶7;
Petition ¶8(c), Attachment 8c.)  
          In
light of the fact that Respondent did not appear at the Arbitration hearing,
the Arbitrator noted that the JAMS Employment Rules, which govern the
proceedings per ¶7 of the Agreement, provides that JAMS Rule 22(j) states:
The Arbitrator may proceed with the Hearing in the absence of a Party
that, after receiving notice of the Hearing pursuant to Rule 19, fails
to attend. The Arbitrator may not render an Award solely on the basis of
the default or absence of the Party but shall require any Party seeking
relief to submit such evidence as the Arbitrator may require for the rendering
of an Award. If the Arbitrator reasonably believes that a Party will
not attend the Hearing, the Arbitrator may schedule the Hearing as a
telephonic Hearing and may receive the evidence necessary to
render an Award by affidavit. The notice of Hearing shall specify if it will
be in person or telephonic.  
 
(Petition, Attachment 8c at pg. 3, citing
JAMS Rule 22(j).)
          The
final arbitration award states:
The Arbitrator concludes that the requirements of Rule 22(j) have been
satisfied and that, in particular, there was a reasonable basis for the
Arbitrator to believe Respondent would not attend the hearing thereby
justifying the modern equivalent of a telephonic hearing, namely a Zoom hearing.
Rule l9(b).  A Notice of Zoom Hearing was
served upon Respondent at least 30 calendar days prior to the scheduled date on
July 20, 2023.
 
In accordance with Rule 22(j), in light of the arbitrator’s belief based
on his lack of response to any of the Notices of hearings or any other
communications (except for the one identified below), the Arbitrator received
the evidence necessary to render an Award by affidavit at the Zoom hearing on
August 21, 2023. More specifically, the arbitrator relied upon information contained
in Claimant’s Demand for Arbitration and Request for Entry of Default Judgment,
the declarations filed in support of the request for default judgment and in
response to the Arbitrator’s request for additional evidence. Those affidavits
are contained in the JAMS file and were served upon Respondent.
 
. . .
 
Claimant further satisfied Rule 22(j) by properly serving Respondent
with all filings and communications, including the Demand for Arbitration,
Notice of Preliminary Conference, Notice of Default Hearing, and Request for
Entry of Default with associated declarations: (I) by mail at his last address
on file in accordance with Paragraphs 9 and 18 of the Agreement; (2) by email
at joe.keels@teamwass.com, the email address from which Respondent sent his one
response to this action to Ms. English; and (3) electronically via JAMS
Electronic Filing System.
 
. . .
 
Additionally, Respondent did actually receive the Demand for
Arbitration. On February 7, 2023, JAMS Specialist, Darcy English, sent an email
to Respondent via the “joe.keels@teamwass.com” email address (Respondent’s
email address on file) asking for a deposit and inquiring whether Respondent
had retained counsel. Respondent replied on the same day from that email
address claiming he could not pay the deposit. He did not answer the question
concerning counsel. However, Claimant’s counsel, on February 8, 2023, one day
after Respondent’s email to Ms. English, sent an additional copy of the Demand
for Arbitration by reply email to the “joe.keels@teamwass.com” address.
 
Paragraph 16 of the Agreement provides that:
Should any Party refuse or willfully neglect to appear for, or
participate in, the arbitration hearing, the Arbitrator shall have the
authority to decide the dispute based upon whatever evidence is presented.
 
(Petition, Attachment 8(c) at pgs. 3-5.)
          The
Court determines the Petition is proper. 
Accordingly, the Court confirms the award and enters judgment according
to it.  Petitioner is awarded the award
against Respondent in the amount of $152,721.90, plus prejudgment interest from
the date of November 14, 2022, at a rate of 10% per year through to the date of
payment, and costs of suit according to proof.
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s petition to confirm
the Arbitration Award is granted.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                                                                   
Hon. Daniel M. Crowley
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 