  Case Number:  23STCV14939    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, January 26, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV14939
CASE NAME:                        Avishai Kohanzad v. Daftari Sion
MOVING PARTY:                  Defendant Daftari Sion
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Avishai Kohanzad
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages from FAC
OPPOSITION:                        12 January 2024
REPLY:                                  19
January 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is granted with leave to amend. The Plaintiff is granted 10
days leave to amend from this date. The court sets a Non-Appearance OSC re
Amended Complaint for February 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The Case Management Conference is continued
to March 28, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On June 27, 2023,
Avishai Kohanzad (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Daftari Sion as
Trustee of the 2006 Sion Daftari and Simin Daftari Revocable Trust
(“Defendant”) alleging three causes of action: (1) Premise Liability; (2)
Trespass; and (3) Private Nuisance.  
 
On October 31,
2023, the court granted the Defendant’s Motion to Strike the punitive damages
from the Complaint. 
 
On November 22,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
the same three causes of action. 
 
On December 26, 2023,
Defendant filed a Motion to Strike the FAC. The Plaintiff opposes the Motion.
The matter is now before the court. 
 
MOtion to
Strike[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendant moves to strike the
following portions from Plaintiff’s FAC: 
 
1)    
Paragraph 39 of the FAC in its entirety. (FAC at
p. 7:7-11);
2)    
Paragraph 2 of the Prayer as to the second cause
of action in its entirety – “For exemplary or punitive damages.” (FAC at p.
7:26);
3)    
Paragraph 2 of the Prayer as to the third cause
of action in its entirety – “For punitive damages.” (FAC at p. 8:3).
 
A.        Summary of Allegations in FAC
 
Plaintiff is the owner of 10701
Wilshire Blvd., Unit 601 (the “Property”) and Defendant is the owner of 10701
Wilshire Blvd., Unit 701, located directly vertically of the Property (the
“Upstairs Property”). (FAC ¶¶ 9, 10.) The respective properties are
condominiums and part of the Crown Towers Homeowners’ Association (“HOA”). (FAC
¶ 9.) On or about April 6, 2023, Plaintiff was notified by Defendant’s plumber,
Roto-Rooter, that there were substantial plumbing issues in the upstairs unit
that needed to be addressed urgently. (FAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff agreed to allow
Roto-Rooter to access the Property to repair any plumbing issues needed but
Roto-Rooter failed to contact Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 12, 13.) 
 
The FAC alleges that Defendant had
knowledge of the extent of damages, need for repair, and impending damage to
Plaintiff’s unit (the Property) but Defendant opted for a “cheaper” work around
solution and failed to follow the advice of Roto-Rooter. (FAC ¶ 14.) Instead,
Defendant hired a new plumber, Burpees Plumbing, who failed to sufficiently
repair the water leakage and instead caused substantial damage to the Property.
(FAC ¶ 14.) On information and belief, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was
aware of Burpees Plumbing’s failure to properly repair the plumbing issues and
damages caused to the Property, “yet Defendant concealed this information from
Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 15.)
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff
discovered a water intrusion coming from his kitchen ceiling and immediately
notified the HOA. (FAC ¶ 16.) The next morning, Plaintiff attempted to contact
the Upstairs Property, but they were unable to be reached. (FAC ¶ 17.) For
several days, Plaintiff notified the HOA and the Upstairs Property about the
water intrusion and attempted to speak with Defendant, but no response was
received. (FAC ¶ 17.) The Upstairs Property now refuses to accept liability and
failed to take any remedial action to repair the damage to the Property. (FAC ¶
19.) This has resulted in a horrific smell emanating from the kitchen cabinets,
which may be the result of mold from the water intrusion. (FAC ¶ 19.) 
 
            A.        The FAC
Fails to Allege Facts Showing Malice, Oppression or Fraud
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3294,
a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been
guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be pled with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. (Id.)¿¿ “Malice” is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been
defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”
(Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3).)¿ 
 
Defendant
asserts that the failure to fix a known water leak is insufficient to support a
claim for punitive damages. In Johns-Manville Sales Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 923,
the employer “was
aware that the condition and location of the ice machine at the snack shop
constituted a hazard for passing employees, who might slip and fall on leaking
water or on ice that had spewed out of the machine.” (Id. at p. 933.)
The employer “sent a mechanic to fix the leak and adjust the
ice machine, but his action was ineffective in remedying the condition. He also
neglected to make secure the adjoining walkway, either by putting down
duckboards or moving the ice machine elsewhere.” (Id. at p. 933.)
The leak from the ice machine caused the walkway to become slippery and the
plaintiff to slip and fall. (Id. at p. 928.) 
The Court of Appeal found that despite the
employer’s knowledge and his “effective action and his inaction, even when
measured by the most demanding yardstick, do not constitute
anything more heinous than neglect to satisfactorily solve the relatively minor
problem of eliminating the risk of slip-and-fall at a particular location.
Patently, the elements of deliberate intent to
injure, of cavalier disregard for human safety, or of willingness to risk
injury to increase profits, are all lacking.” (Johns-Manville Sales Corp., supra, 96 Cal.App.3d
at pp. 933-934.) 
Here, the FAC does not allege that the water
intrusion was a “minor problem” and instead alleges that Defendant was aware
Burpees Plumbing failed to properly repair the issues and concealed this
information from Plaintiff, causing damages. (FAC ¶ 15.) Knowledge alone is
insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages, however; Plaintiff must
also allege facts to malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) Serious or willful
misconduct may be shown by: “a) a deliberate act for the purpose of injuring another;
(b) an intentional act with knowledge that serious injury is a probable result;
or (c) an intentional act with a positive and reckless disregard of its
possible consequences.” (Dowden v. Industrial Acc.
Commission (1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 124, 130.)
 
The FAC asserts that Defendant chose a “cheaper”
workaround solution without specifying what that cheaper alternative was. (FAC
¶ 14.) The FAC also states that Defendant failed to follow Roto-Rooter’s advice
but does not state what the advice was or that Defendant acted with malice,
fraud, or oppression in choosing not to follow said advice. (FAC ¶ 14.) Without
said facts, the FAC fails to show that Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression in hiring a new plumber, Burpees Plumbing. Moreover, the FAC fails
to state facts to show how Defendant concealed the improper repairs to the
plumbing. (FAC ¶ 14.) Thus, Plaintiff fails to allege that Defendant acted with
the deliberate intent to injure Plaintiff by failing to adequately fix the
plumbing in the Upstairs Property or that, in hiring a new plumber, Burpees
Plumbing, Defendant did so with the knowledge that serious injury to the Property
would result or that such action constituted reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s
safety or property. Similarly, the FAC fails to allege facts to show that
Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression by purposefully failing to
respond to Plaintiff’s notice of the water intrusion. (FAC ¶ 17.) 
 
Based on the above, Defendant’s Motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is granted with leave to amend. The
Plaintiff is granted 10 days
 leave to amend from this date. The
court sets a Non-Appearance OSC re Amended Complaint 
for February 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
The Case Management Conference is continued to March 
28, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendant
to give notice.
 


