  Case Number:  20STCV48954    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GENERAL STAR NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SENTINEL INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD., et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV48954
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT; (2) MOTION TO SEAL
 
Date: 
  December 11, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Sentinel Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Moving Defendant” or
“Sentinel”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff General Star National Insurance Company (“Plaintiff” or
“General Star”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
In
relevant part, the Complaint alleges: Moving Defendant issued a commercial
general liability policy to Zuma House, LC (“Zuma”) (the “Sentinel Primary
Policy”).  (Complaint ¶ 5.)  The Sentinel Primary Policy included business
liability coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence, in addition to defense
expenses.  (Id.)  Zuma had a second primary general liability
policy with St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company (the “Travelers Primary
Policy”) that included business liability coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence.  (Complaint ¶ 6.)  
 
Zuma
was also named as an insured on an Excess Commercial Umbrella Insurance Policy issued
by Plaintiff.  (the “General Star
Policy”).  (Complaint ¶ 7.)  The General Star Policy applied in excess of
the limits of the Sentinel Primary Policy and Travelers Primary Policy.  (Id.) 

 
On
April 21, 2016, Fabian Caloca (“Caloca”), was struck by a garage door while
making a delivery to Zuma’s property and sustained a head wound.  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  On May 23, 2016, Caloca’s counsel made a
claim against Zuma for his injuries, which was reported to Sentinel on May 26,
2016.  (Id.)  Sentinel accepted coverage for the claim and
did not report the claim to General Star or Travelers.  (Id.) 
Sentinel did not materially investigate Caloca’s claim, did not gather
and preserve evidence relevant to liability or damages, did not retain
competent defense counsel, and did not attempt to timely settle the claim.  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  
 
On
January 9, 2018, Caloca filed a personal injury complaint against Zuma (the
“Underlying Action”).  (Complaint
¶ 10.)  Although Sentinel
represented Zuma in the Underlying Action, its counsel failed to adequately
defend against Caloca’s claim or take actions to limit Zuma’s liability.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 11-13.)  Sentinel also failed to give Plaintiff timely
notice of the Caloca claim and the Underlying Action.  (Complaint ¶ 14.)  When Plaintiff received notice of the
Underlying Action shortly before the trial thereon began, Plaintiff took action
to limit Zuma’s exposure, and the Underlying Action settled shortly thereafter,
with Plaintiff handling the portion of the settlement that exceeded the
Sentinel and Travelers Primary Policies. 
(Complaint ¶ 15.)  Had Moving
Defendant properly handled Caloca’s claim and the Underlying Action, the
Underlying Action would have settled for less than the $2,000,000 limits of the
Sentinel and Travelers Primary Policies. 
(Complaint ¶ 16.)
 
Moving
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment/adjudication (the “MSJ”) on the
ground that the undisputed material facts demonstrate that Moving Defendant is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
Moving Defendant also filed a motion to seal (the “Motion to Seal”)
portions of documents filed in conjunction with the MSJ and responsive
briefings.[1]
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Moving Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections to the
evidence submitted with the MSJ are OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff’s objections to the evidence submitted with the MSJ reply
brief (the “MSJ Reply”) are SUSTAINED. 
The Court declines to consider the newly offered evidence in the MSJ
Reply.  (See San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank (2002)
102 Cal.App.4th 308, 313-14.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  CCP section 437c, subdivision (c)
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto.  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. 
(Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  
 
The Parties’ Evidence 
Moving
Defendant provides evidence that: On April 21, 2016, Caloca was injured while
delivering a package to Zuma.  (Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 1.)  Zuma notified Moving Defendant of the
accident in May of 2016.  (UMF 2.)  Over the next 22 months, Moving Defendant’s
adjuster unsuccessfully made inquiries with Caloca’s attorneys to obtain
medical records about Caloca’s injuries. 
(See UMF 4.)  The
Underlying Action was initiated in 2018, and on about March 26, 2018, Zuma
tendered its defense of the lawsuit to Moving Defendant.  (UMF 6.) 
Caloca never made settlement demands within Sentinel’s policy limit.  (See UMF 10-15.) 
 
In
its opposition (the “MSJ Opposition”), Plaintiff presents the declaration of an
expert witness to refute Moving Defendant’s position regarding damages.  (See Declaration of Timothy Walker
(“Walker Decl.”).)  Walker opines that if
Sentinel had acted in good faith, the claim could have been resolved – whether
by settlement or judgment – for less than $3 million. (Walker Decl., p.
12.)  Walker puts forward various expert
opinions stating that Sentinel engaged in misconduct by appointing staff
counsel rather than outside counsel; failing to conduct investigation of fact
and expert witnesses to defend against the claim; and failing to notify General
Star of the claim.  (See Walker
Decl., p. 4-6, 7-11). 
            
            Walker opines that “had the case been aggressively
prepared, it is extremely likely that a different outcome would have occurred
and a settlement well within the $2 million primary policy limits could have
been achieved” and “the case still had an opportunity to be resolved for less
than $3 million had Sentinel made an offer that was warranted in the area of
$500,000.” (Walker Decl., p. 14-15.) 
Walker points out certain specific evidence that either was or should have
been in Sentinel’s possession and, if aggressively pursued, could have provided
a “good opportunity” to resolve the case within the $2 million policy
limits.  (Walker Decl., p. 12-14, 16-18.)

 
Elements of Insurance
Subrogation Claims
The
elements of an insurer's cause of action for equitable subrogation are as
follows: (a) the insured suffered a loss for which the defendant is liable,
either as the wrongdoer whose act or omission caused the loss or because the
defendant is legally responsible to the insured for the loss caused by the
wrongdoer; (b) the claimed loss was one for which the insurer was not
primarily liable; (c) the insurer has compensated the insured in whole or in
part for the same loss for which the defendant is primarily liable; (d) the
insurer has paid the claim of its insured to protect its own interest and not
as a volunteer; (e) the insured has an existing, assignable cause of action
against the defendant which the insured could have asserted for its own benefit
had it not been compensated for its loss by the insurer; (f) the insurer has
suffered damages caused by the act or omission upon which the liability of the
defendant depends; (g) justice requires that the loss be entirely shifted from
the insurer to the defendant, whose equitable position is inferior to that of
the insurer; and (h) the insurer's damages are in a liquidated sum, generally
the amount paid to the insured.  (Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. v. Maryland Cas. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1292.)
 
 
 
            Moving Defendant argues that summary adjudication of all
of Plaintiff’s claims is proper because the evidence establishes that there was
no opportunity for Sentinel to settle within its policy limit and Plaintiff
would not have accepted a settlement offer of less than $3 million
dollars.  The Court finds that Moving
Defendant has met its burden to show that there are no triable issues of
material fact regarding causation.  
 
Plaintiff
argues that its evidence is sufficient to raise a factual issue over whether
Moving Defendant could have obtained a settlement within its policy limit if it
had handled Caloca’s claim differently.  In
its MSJ Opposition, Plaintiff cites to Charnay and Mireskandri for
the proposition that plaintiff must only show that that a more favorable result
was possible.  (Charnay v. Cobert (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 170, 180-81; Mireskandari v. Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 247, 261.)  These
comparisons are inapt because they articulate the standard for evaluating
pleadings at the demurrer stage rather than evaluating evidence in a
dispositive motion.  The court in Charnay
explicitly noted that there is a difference between pleading standards in a
demurrer and evidence submitted in a summary judgment, which needed to show
that actual harm was not speculative.  (Charnay,
supra, 145 Cal.App.4th at 180-81.)
 
In
Marshak v. Ballesteros, summary judgment was granted in favor of the defendant
when the plaintiff in a legal malpractice action failed to offer any evidence to
show that the case was worth more than the amount for which he settled it.  (Marshak v. Ballesteros (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 1514, 1519.)  Similarly, in Herrington
v. Superior Court, the court granted summary judgment when the plaintiff
failed to produce evidence showing that his wife would have settled for less
than she did or that, following a trial, he would have obtained a judgment more
favorable than the settlement.  (Herrington
v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1052, 1058.)  In Barnard v. Langer, the court held
that it was not enough for plaintiff to claim that it was possible to obtain a
better settlement or a better result at trial, but the damages had to be proven
to legal certainty.  (Barnard v.
Langer (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1453, 1461.)  The Barnard court noted: “The mere
probability that a certain event would have happened, upon which a claim for
damages is predicated, will not support the claim or furnish the foundation of
an action for such damages.”  (Id.
at 1462.)  
 
            Accordingly,
it is not sufficient for Plaintiff to merely show that a more favorable result
was possible in order to raise a triable issue of fact at the summary judgment
stage.  Rather, Plaintiff must offer
evidence that absent Sentinel’s alleged misconduct, there would have been a
more favorable settlement, or a jury verdict would have resulted in a lesser
judgment.  Plaintiff’s evidence regarding
the myriad of ways in which it contends Moving Defendant mishandled Caloca’s
claim and the Underlying Action does not raise nonspeculative evidence that
Moving Defendant could have settled with Caloca for an amount within its policy
limit had it acted differently. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s evidence is not sufficient to raise a factual
dispute on the element of causation.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 153; see e.g., Travelers Cas.
& Sur. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1440, 1462 (finding
that insured’s opposition expert’s declaration that the contamination “could
have been” caused by other factors did not raise a triable issue of fact).)
 
            
 Plaintiff also argues that it incurred legal
expenses as damages as a result of Moving Defendant’s handling of the
Underlying Action.  This argument is also
unpersuasive.  Damages solely based on
legal costs are improper damages when a party is attempting to show a better
result in an underlying litigation.  (See
Herrington, supra, 107 Cal.App.4th at 1058.) 
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the MSJ
Opposition does not raise a factual dispute over the issue of causation.  The Court therefore GRANTS the MSJ in its
entirety.   
 
MOTION TO SEAL
Under
California Rules of Court (“CRC”), rule 2.550 (c), unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be
open.  (CRC, r. 2.550 (c).)  Subject to certain exceptions, a
court record must not be filed under seal without a court order.  (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471,
486.)  A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a
motion or an application for an order sealing the record.  (CRC, r. 2.551 (b).)  The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts
sufficient to justify the sealing.  (Id.)  In order for records to be sealed, a trial
court must hold a hearing and expressly find that: (1) there exists an
overriding interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (2) there is a
substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent closure
and/or sealing; (3) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored to
serve the overriding interest; and (4) there is no less restrictive means
of achieving the overriding interest.  (Universal City Studios, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1279.)  Since
court records are public records, the burden rests on the party seeking to deny
public access to those records to establish compelling reasons why and to what
extent these records should be made private.  (Mary R. v. B. & R.
Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317.)  
 
 
            The Motion to Seal requests that information regarding
third-party medical records and Moving Defendant’s confidential business information
be redacted from documents offered in connection with the MSJ.  The Court finds that Moving Defendant has
demonstrated that redacting this information is appropriate.  For this reason and because it is unopposed,
the Court GRANTS the Motion to Seal.  (Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 

 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
      
   Dated this 11th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






