 Case Number:  22STCV27147    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SHAHROUZ MANGOLI,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WENNY SUSANTO, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27147
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR
  DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Date: 
  December 11, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
Any opposition papers were required to have been filed and served at
least nine court days before the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005 subdivision (b).
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of a landlord/tenant relationship.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) violation of the Fair Employment
and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (4) violation of Civil Code section 789.3; (5) breach
of quiet enjoyment; (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (7)
negligence; and (8) malicious prosecution—wrongful use of civil proceeding.
 
On
October 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an application for determination of good
faith settlement (the “Application”) on the grounds that he has agreed to
settle this matter with non-served Defendant Wendy Susanto (“Susanto”) and
former Defendant Glaser Property Management, Inc. (“Glaser”). 
 
DISCUSSION
Under
CCP section 877, a release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant
not to sue or not to enforce judgment is given in good faith before verdict or
judgment to one or more of a number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the
same tort reduces the claims against other defendants in the amount stipulated
by the release, the dismissal or the covenant, or in the amount of the
consideration paid for it, whichever is the greater, and discharges the party
to whom it is given from all liability for any contribution to any other
parties.  (CCP § 877, subds.
(a)-(b).)  A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith bars any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6, subd. (c).)  
 
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (“Tech-Bilt”), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors for courts to consider in determining if a settlement is
in good faith under CCP section 877.6: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.  (Id.) 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is
required to be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.  (Id.)  A defendant’s settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.  (Id.)
 
The
court in City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, provided the following guidance for evaluating a motion
for good faith settlement determination:
This court notes that of the hundreds of
motions for good faith determination presented for trial court approval each
year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the
trial court.  At the time of filing in
many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each motion required a full recital by
declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response to all of
the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be
consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial
courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and
clients’ resources. . . . That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.  If the good faith
settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good
faith on the contesting party.  Once
there is a showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof
on the issue of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the
settlement was not made in good faith.  If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  (City of Grand View
Terrace v. Superior Court 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-61 (internal citations
omitted).)
 
            The Court finds that the Application adequately
demonstrates that the proposed settlement complies with Tech-Bilt.  For this reason and because it is unopposed,
the
Court GRANTS the Application.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
         Dated this 11th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



