  Case Number:  BC546925    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SEALUTIONS, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CHARLES ROBERT SCHWAB, JR., et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: BC546925
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST JUDGMENT
  DEBTOR NICHOLAS BEHUNIN
 
Date: March 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Complainants
Michael Schwab and Big Sky Venture Capital II, LLC (collectively, the
“Cross-Complainants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.

 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of a business
relationship. On May 4, 2023, a judgment (the “Judgment”) was entered in favor
of Cross-Complainants against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Nicholas Behunin
(“Behunin”). 
            On January 5, 2024, this Court
granted Cross-Complainants’ Motion to Compel Responses to Post-Judgment
Requests for Production and Interrogatories. 
 
            On January 30, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed the instant Motion for Sanctions against Behunin. The
opposition was due on March 1, 2024. As of March 11, 2024, no opposition has
been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2023.010, “[m]issues of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following:... (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.... (g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery....” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
 
Furthermore,
“[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one
unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the
discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.
If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Lastly,
“[t]he court may impose a contempt sanction by an order treating the misuse of
the discovery process as a contempt of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (e).)
Motion for Sanctions 
            Cross-Complainants’ move for an
order (1) finding Behunin failed to comply with this Court’s January 5, 2024
order, in providing, without objection, full and complete written responses to
Cross-Complainants’ post-judgment request for production of documents and
interrogatories; (2) awarding monetary sanctions against Behunin in the amount
of $2,450.00 for attorneys’ fees reasonably incurred in bringing this Motion;
and (3) to show cause as to why this Court should not issue a contempt
sanction.
 
            Cross-Complainants contend Behunin
was served a copy of the January 5, 2024 order on January 10, 2024. (Chung
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Cross-Complainants further contend as of the date of this
present motion, Behunin has not served written responses or produced documents
as ordered by this Court. (Id. at ¶ 4.) As such, Cross-Complainants
argue Behunin continues to frustrate and obstruct their legitimate efforts to
enforce the Judgment.
 
            Cross-Complainants’ counsel has
spent (1) 4.5 hours conducting research and drafting the papers for this
present motion and (2) anticipate an additional 30 minutes preparing and
attending the hearing at the billing rate of $400.00 per hour. (Chung Decl., ¶
5.) Cross-Complainants’ counsel also avers David H. Schwartz spent 45 minutes
reviewing, editing, and discussing with him the draft version of the Motion for
Sanctions at a billing rate of $600.00 per hour but only charged $450.00. (Id.)
Thus, the total amount in sanctions requested in $2,450.00. 
 
            The court finds that Behunin has
engaged in misuse of the discovery process warranting the requested sanctions.
First, Behunin failed to obey this Court’s January 5, 2024, despite having
notice of this ruling. Second, Behunin did not oppose the motion to compel,
which resulted in the present order at issue. Finally, Behunin was served with
notice of this instant motion and again did not file an opposition. 
 
            Therefore, Cross-Complainants’
Motion for Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,450.00. Behunin is ordered  to pay $2,450.00 in monetary sanctions within
20 days of this order. The Court exercises its discretion not to set an Order
to Show Cause re Contempt Hearing. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



