  Case Number:  22PSCV00120    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:   Figueroa Street and Fifth, LLC, et al. v. New Age Kaleidoscope,
LLC, et al. 
Snell
& Wilmer LLP’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs Figueroa
Street and Fifth, LLC and Charles Lewis 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel on the
condition that Counsel submits a revised proposed order correcting the defects
noted herein. The Court will discuss whether trial needs to be continued at the
hearing on this motion. The Court will also set an OSC re Dismissal of
Complaint and Cross-Complaint as to Figueroa Street and Fifth, LLC for failure
to retain counsel. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a rental dispute. On February 4, 2022, plaintiffs Figueroa
Street and Fifth, LLC and Charles Lewis (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this
action against defendants New Age Kaleidoscope, LLC (New Age), Kam Sang
Company, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 25. On April 4,
2022, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint against the same
Defendants, alleging causes of action for recovery of penalties for intentional
violation of the Los Angeles County eviction moratorium, fraud, rescission of
lease based on fraud, rescission of guaranty based on fraud, and for breach of
lease. On April 25, 2022, New Age filed a cross-complaint against Figueroa
Street and Fifth, LLC, Sphere West, LLC, Charles Lewis, and Roes 1 through 50,
alleging causes of action for breach of written contract – minimum base rent,
breach of written contract – commercial lease, breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, breach of personal guarantee, fraudulent
conveyance, accounting, and declaratory relief. 
On April 8, 2022, New Age filed a complaint for unlawful detainer against
Figueroa Street and Fifth, LLC and Does 1 through 10, in Los Angeles County
Superior Court, Case No. 22PSCV00356. On June 7, 2022, Figueroa Street and
Fifth, LLC filed a cross-complaint against New Age, LLC, Kam Sang Company,
Inc., and Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of action for recovery of
penalties for intentional violation of the Los Angeles County eviction
moratorium, fraud, rescission of lease based on fraud, rescission of guaranty
based on fraud, and for breach of lease. On August 15, 2022, the Court ordered
this action (LASC Case No. 22PSCV00120) consolidated with LASC Case No.
22PSCV00356, with this action designated as the lead case. 
On
August 28, 2024, Michael B. Reynolds and Andrew B. Still of Snell & Wilmer
LLP (collectively, Counsel) moved to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. On
September 9, 2024, New Age opposed the motion. On September 12, 2024, Counsel
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to
be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of
Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite
forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in
the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES 
            The Court notes that Counsel’s
motion was untimely filed on August 28, 2024. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).) Counsel also correctly notes that New Age’s opposition was untimely
filed on September 9, 2024. (Id.) The Court exercises its discretion to
still consider the motion and opposition, but admonishes the parties to comply
with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
DISCUSSION 
Michael
B. Reynolds and Andrew B. Still of Snell & Wilmer LLP (collectively,
Counsel) seek to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. Counsel contends Plaintiffs
terminated the attorney-client relationship on or about July 16, 2024, but that
Plaintiffs refuse to execute a substitution of attorney form. (Still Decl., ¶
2.) Counsel contends Plaintiffs’ conduct renders it impossible and unreasonable
to continue to represent Plaintiffs. 
In
opposition, Defendants contend that allowing Counsel to withdraw would result
in significant delay in this case, and there have already been trial delays
caused by withdrawals of prior counsel for Plaintiffs. 
In
reply, Counsel contends that forcing them to continue representation would be
unreasonable given Plaintiffs’ communication to Counsel desiring to terminate
the attorney-client relationship. Counsel indicates that they only brought this
motion because Plaintiffs refused to communicate or respond to the signed
Substitution of Attorney form provided to them, and argues that it would be
illogical or impossible for Counsel to continue to represent Plaintiffs when
Plaintiffs have rejected Counsel as their legal representation. Counsel further
argues that they are not asking for a trial continuance and that it would be
unfair to force Plaintiffs to accept the continued representation of Counsel.
Counsel also notes the lack of objection from Plaintiffs to this motion. 
The
Court finds Counsel have demonstrated a reasonable basis for withdrawal, namely
the breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. (Cal. Rules
of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4); Estate of Falco (1987)
188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) While the Court agrees with New Age that the
proximity of the trial date is problematic here, the Court is hesitant to force
Counsel to continue representing Plaintiffs when it appears Plaintiffs do not
want Counsel to continue representing them. (See Still Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Counsel has otherwise provided the proper Judicial Council forms per
Rule 3.1362 of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) However, the Court notes that the declaration
and proposed order provide the incorrect location for the trial as the Pomona
Courthouse. (Still Decl., ¶ 6; Proposed Order, ¶ 9, subd. (b).) The correct
location for the trial of this action will be Department 6 at the West Covina
Courthouse, located at 1427 West Covina Parkway, West Covina, CA 91790. This
can easily be corrected by submitting a corrected proposed order. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion on the
condition that Counsel submits a revised proposed order correcting the defects
identified herein. The Court will discuss with the parties at the hearing on
this motion whether a trial continuance is needed to permit Plaintiffs to
retain new counsel. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel on the
condition that Counsel submits a revised proposed order correcting the defects
noted herein. The Court will discuss whether trial needs to be continued at the
hearing on this motion. The Court will also set an OSC re Dismissal of
Complaint and Cross-Complaint as to Figueroa Street and Fifth, LLC for failure
to retain counsel. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.