 Case Number:  BC290553    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Haresh Jogani’s Application for an Order Setting a Receiver’s Undertaking
Defendant
Haresh Jogani applies for an order setting the amount of the undertaking by
receiver Aaron J. Kudla.  After defendant
filed this application, Kudla posted a $10,000 undertaking.  
Reconsideration
            Plaintiff Shashikant Jogani argues
this application is an improper motion for reconsideration in violation of Code
of Civil Procedure 1008.  As Haresh
Jogani argues (reply, p. 3), the court did not consider or decide the issue of
the amount of an undertaking.  Moreover, Code
of Civil Procedure section 995.930, subdivision (b) provides that an objection
to a bond “shall be made within 10 days
after service of a copy of the bond on the beneficiary or such other time as is
required by the statute providing for the bond.”  Haresh Jogani made this application before
the receiver posted the undertaking.  Assuming
this were an improper motion for reconsideration, the court would exercise its
inherent authority to reconsider the issue of the amount of the undertaking.  (See Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1096–1097.)  As discussed below, the receiver was required
to give an undertaking in a sum set by the court.  
Undertaking
Requirement
Plaintiff
argues an undertaking is only required when the court appoints a receiver via
an ex parte application instead of a noticed motion.  The statutory scheme provides for two
different types of undertakings: (1) an undertaking by a party who applies ex
parte to appoint a receiver (Code Civ. Proc., § 566, subd. (b)), and (2) an
undertaking by the receiver himself or herself before becoming receiver (Code
Civ. Proc., § 567, subd. (b)).  
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1178 states the requirement is not limited to ex parte
applications: “At the hearing of an application for appointment of a receiver
on notice or ex parte, the applicant must, and other parties may, propose and
state the reasons for the specific amounts of the undertakings required from
(1) the applicant by Code of Civil Procedure section 529, (2) the applicant by
Code of Civil Procedure section 566(b), and (3) the receiver by Code of Civil
Procedure section 567(b), for any injunction that is ordered in or with the
order appointing a receiver.” 
Kudla
was required to “give an undertaking to the State of California, in such sum as
the court or judge may direct, to the effect that the receiver will faithfully
discharge the duties of receiver in the action and obey the orders of the court
therein.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 567, subd.
(b).)  
Amount
of Undertaking  
The
purpose of a “bond furnished by the Receiver” is “to protect those who might
suffer loss from his failure to discharge his duties and administer his
business in accordance with law and properly account for funds coming under his
control.”  (State Through State Bd. of
Equalization v. Stewart (1969) 272 Cal.App.2d 345, 351.)
Haresh
Jogani cites a practice guide stating: “In determining the amount of the
undertaking, judges consider such factors as: (1) the nature and value of the
assets to be controlled by the receiver; (2) the likelihood that these assets
would be dissipated; (3) the risk of any action having a negative impact on the
assets; and (4) the length of time the receivership might be in place (e.g.,
if the receiver is to collect rents on real property pending foreclosure, the
undertaking might be set at a multiple of the monthly rental receipts times the
number of months until likely foreclosure).” 
(Cal. Judges Benchbook: Civ. Proceedings—Before Trial (CJER 2023) §
14.155.)
It
is undisputed that the assets controlled by the receiver are valued around $8
billion.  Though Kudla is an experienced
receiver, there remains some likelihood the assets would be dissipated.  There is an inherent risk that some actions
could have a negative impact on the assets. 
Haresh Jogani, however, provides little explanation beyond
generalities.  Finally, the receivership may
be in place for years.  
Notably,
Haresh Jogani did not propose any specific amount for the undertaking.  He only argues it should be “substantial” and
that $10,000 is not enough.    
Receiver
Kudla submitted a “statement regarding” this application.  The court agrees that Kudla “would be unable
to secure a bond in the amount of the judgment at issue in this case given its
size, and doing so would essentially defeat the purpose of the appointment of
the Receiver.”  (Receiver’s Statement, p.
3.)  A mere one percent of the receivership
estate would be about $80 million.  The
receiver could not feasibly obtain an amount anywhere near the size of the
receivership estate.  For reasons
discussed in the court’s order appointing the receiver, the likelihood of
dissipating assets would be far greater without a receiver.  Setting a prohibitively large undertaking
would not serve the interests of justice. 
After
considering the totality of the circumstances, the court sets the amount of the
receiver’s undertaking at $100,000.  Receiver
Kudla therefore must give an additional undertaking of $90,000.
Disposition
            Defendant Haresh Jogani’s
application for an order setting receiver’s undertaking is granted in part.  The court hereby sets the amount of the
receiver’s undertaking under Code of Civil Procedure 567, subdivision (b) at
$100,000.