  Case Number:  24STCP02551    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioner Rich Horizons, LLC’s Petition
for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights 
Petitioner Rich Horizons, LLC petitions for approval
of transfer of structured settlement rights by payee “R.M.”  The petition is procedurally defective for
two reasons.  
First, petitioner did not provide
required information about the payee.  Insurance
Code §10139.5(c) requires that the petitioner provide certain personal
information about the payee, including: “(1) The Payee’s name, address, and
age” and “(4) The amounts and sources of the payee’s monthly income and
financial resources.”  Petitioner did not
provide those.  Petitioner redacted the
payee’s name, address, and age.  (R.M.
Decl., ¶ 2.)  Not only do those
redactions violate Insurance Code section 10139.5(c), but also they interfere
with the right of public access to court records.  (See Department
of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105, 111-112.)  
Second,
petitioner did not provide sufficient information for the court to determine
whether the transfer “is fair and reasonable and in the best interest of the
payee.”  (Ins. Code, § 10137(a).)  Specifically, the court must consider
“[w]hether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate
applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs
of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the
transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the
payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable.”  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5(b)(9).)  Petitioner redacted all financial details:
the amount of the structured settlement payments, the amount of petitioner’s
payment for the transfer, and the effective interest rate.  Without that information, the court cannot
evaluate the proposed transfer’s fairness.  

The
court also denies the petition on the merits. 
Payee R.M.’s declaration states, “I intend to use the proceeds I receive
… to work closely with a financial advisor to monitor and grow my money.”  (Ex. G, R.M. Affidavit, ¶ 9; Ex. H, R.M.
Decl., ¶ 10.)  Payee had the right under
Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (h) to have petitioner pay up to
$1,500 for independent legal or financial advice about this transaction.  As required, petitioner advised R.M. of that
right.  (Ex. A, addendum to contract, ¶
J.)  Yet R.M. chose to waive that
right.  (Ex. C.)  
The
time to begin working with a financial advisor is before the transfer, when
petitioner must pay up to $1,500 of the cost of that advice.  Someone who waives that right but claims he
or she plans to “work closely with a financial advisor to monitor and grow [his
or her] money” (Ex. G, R.M. Affidavit, ¶ 9; Ex. H, R.M. Decl., ¶ 10) is not properly
ensuring the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in his or her best interest.  
The petition is denied.