 Case Number:  23SMCV02150    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Preliminarily, the court notes that the demurrer is to the First Amended
Complaint.  The FAC was not actually
technically filed—it was attached to the motion for leave to amend, which was
granted.  The court granted the motion
for leave to amend, but apparently the amended complaint has not been filed as
a stand-alone document.  Plaintiff must
file that document no later than Friday at noon.  However, the court will not stand on that
technicality for purposes of deciding the instant demurrer.   
The gist of the contract is that defendant breached a
contract by failing to pay plaintiff for services rendered.  The contract at issue is reflected in a
series of emails between the parties.
Defendant demurs on grounds of uncertainty.  Such demurrers are disfavored and succeed
only where the complaint is so opaque that defendant (and the court) simply
cannot understand it.  That is not the
case here and the demurrer on that ground is OVERRULED.  (Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100
Cal.App.2d 143; Lickiss v. Fin. Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125.)
Defendant also claims that the second cause of action, which
is for breach of a written contract, is insufficient because the contract is
unsigned.  The court disagrees.  We are long past the days where wet ink
signatures are required.  Under the
Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (UETA), which California has adopted, a
signature is not ignored simply because it is electronic.  The key is that the electronic signature must
be sufficiently formalized to assure that the party signing agreed to use the
signature to formalize the agreement.  (J.B.B.
Investment Partners, Ltd. v. Fair (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974.)  But that need not be overly formal.  Here, there was an exchange of emails between
plaintiff and defendant.  Plaintiff
proposes terms to a contract and defendant agrees and signs off with
“Barry.”  That is sufficient, at least
for pleading purposes, to constitute an alleged agreement and one that is a
writing.
The other defense is essentially the statute of
limitations.  According to the defense,
the alleged breach would have occurred in 2018. 
If that is the case, then this action, filed in 2023, would not be
timely.  Defendant’s theory is based on
the email exchange, but that exchange had two parts.  One was a payment schedule for money that
plaintiff claimed was due from defendant. 
That schedule reflected a series of payments, the last of which was to
be made in 2018.  The other was a promise
to pay future invoices for future services within 60 days of billing.  The former part would be time-barred.  The schedule expired long ago—well beyond the
statute of limitations.  But the latter
is different.  It creates a contract
whereby defendant agrees to pay for future services in a timely manner.  The complaint does not state when the
services were rendered, when the bills were tendered, or when the refusal to
pay would have matured.  Without that
information, a demurrer based on the statute of limitations will not lie.
In reply, defendant contends that the FAC is unclear as to
whether the breach was of paragraph 4 or 6 of the agreement.  The court will not consider that argument
because it was not raised in the moving papers. 
(Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002.)  But defendant has the tools of discovery
available to clear that up.
The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.  Defendant has 30 days to answer.