 Case Number:  23SMCV00743    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  I This is yet another in a seemingly never-ending series of
discovery motions.  This one is brought
by defendant to compel further responses to requests for production.  Plaintiff opposes on the ground that there
was an inadequate meet and confer following the supplemental responses. 
The motion to compel is GRANTED.  Defendant propounded a series of requests for
production to plaintiff.  The court has
looked at the requests and they appear proper; defendant has met its burden of
justification.
As to requests 1-51, plaintiff has not filed any response at
all.  Even the supplemental responses
fail to address the first fifty-one requests. 
The motion is therefore GRANTED as to those requests.
Request 52 seeks documents relative to the location of the
funds plaintiff received from Housing is Key. 
Defendant asserts that this money should have been paid to it because
the money was for rental assistance, but instead of turning it over, plaintiff
kept it.  The responses, even the
supplemental ones, are wholly inadequate. 
Among other things, they suggest that there are no responsive documents.  But that is simply inconsistent with the
previous (inadequate) special interrogatory responses.  Plaintiff admits that the money was placed in
an account.  Last time the court checked,
one cannot open an account without filling out paperwork, not to mention the
receipt of periodic statements from the financial institution.  Request 54 is for plaintiff’s resume.  Plaintiff responded by saying that there were
no such documents.  But defendant points
out that there is a resume on plaintiff’s LinkedIn page.  Although the court does not have access to
that page, the court notes that the response (following objections) is that
there are no responsive documents because it was believed none ever existed,
which would not be true if the LinkedIn comment is correct.  Further, the response is limited to
“possession or control,” rather than “possession, custody, or control,” which
is what the statute requires.  The court
agrees that more is needed here.  If
there truly are no responsive documents because none ever existed, that is
fine, although the court envisions more motion practice if defendant can make
good on its claim that it has an exemplar of at least one.  Finally, RFP 57 seeks documents referred to
in the responses to Special Interrogatories. 
Plaintiff must respond (but the court is aware that further
interrogatory responses are forthcoming. 
Therefore, the response to this RFP ought to await the response ordered
as to the special interrogatories.
Defendant also complains about an email that would be
responsive to RFPs 39 and 40, upon which defendant wants a special ruling.  Plaintiff’s counsel attached the email to
other papers, but defendant asserts that the attachment looks like an obvious
cut-and-paste job with portions omitted even though the declaration to which it
is attached attests that it is a true and correct copy.  The court will take no separate action on that
at this time, but the court has looked at the document and it does not look like
a true and correct copy.  The court notes
that a “true and correct copy” means a copy that is in all respects identical
to the entire original—nothing deleted, nothing added, nothing changed.  (If an alteration is required, then the
proper language would be, for example, “attached as exhibit A is a true and
correct copy of an email chain between DOE and ROE except that the second
paragraph, which concerns settlement, has been redacted.”)  Plaintiff’s counsel should ensure that such
is the case here.  The above ruling ought
to apply to these RFPs, and the court does not see the need for a special
ruling. 
Other than RFP 57, plaintiff has 30 days to respond to the
RFP’s with verified responses without objection other than privilege.  The documents and any privilege log must be
provided at the same time.  As to RFP 57,
it must be responded to no later than 7 calendar days after the responses to
the special interrogatories recently compelled by the court.  The response will be verified and without
objection and the documents will be provided at that time.
Plaintiff’s concern about the meet and confer is without
merit.  Given that plaintiff still has
not responded at all to RFP’s 1-51, there is no reason for defendant to believe
that plaintiff had any intention of acting in good faith here.
Defendant also seeks sanctions.  This would be the fourth time that
plaintiff’s counsel has acted without substantial justification.  Sanctions are awarded against plaintiff and
plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $1320, payable within 30 days.  Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel will need
to re-configure they way they are approaching this matter.