  Case Number:  22CHCV00371    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 1, 2024
 

MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV00371

 
Motion
Filed: 1/17/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants
Andrew Smith, an individual; Heather Smith, an individual; and Brit with Grit,
a California corporation (“Defendants”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Raphael Conelly, individually and derivatively on behalf of Better Ideas Team,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order quashing Plaintiff’s 12/21/23
deposition subpoena for production of business records, propounded and served
on non-party deponent Powur Home Construction.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted in part. The Court limits the scope of the subject document
requests to the years 2015-2021 and 3 through 14.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff brings this action against defendants Andrew
Smith (“Andrew”), Heather Smith (“Heather”), and Brit with Grit (“BWG”).
Plaintiff alleges that Andrew, his former business partner at Better Ideas
Team, Inc. (“BIT”), induced Plaintiff to invest in BIT, and subsequently
misappropriated BIT funds for his own personal use, as well as for Heather and
BWG’s benefit. (SAC ¶¶ 6–11.) Such alleged misappropriation includes the
transfer of “positions” in the multi-level marketing company Powur Home
Construction (“Powur”) from BIT’s name to Heather’s without Plaintiff’s
consent. (Ibid.)
 
On 5/25/22, Plaintiff filed
his original complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of
action: (1) Derivative Claim for Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) Derivative Claim
for Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Derivative Claim for
Conversion; and (4) Direct Action for Fraud. On 10/21/22, Plaintiff filed his
FAC, alleging the same causes of action. On 4/10/23, Plaintiff filed his SAC,
alleging the same causes of action. On 10/2/23, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On 12/21/23, Plaintiff
served a deposition subpoena for business records on Powur, seeking the production of documents relating to
BWG, BIT, including all payments, account statements, and communications
relating to BWG, BIT, Andrew, and Heather. (Ex. 2 to Pl.’s Opp.) On 1/17/24, Defendants filed the instant motion to quash
the deposition subpoena. On 6/18/24, Plaintiff filed his opposition. On
6/25/24, Defendants filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party may move to
quash a deposition subpoena to strike, modify, or direct “compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).) Here, Plaintiff’s 12/21/23 deposition
subpoena to Powur contains the following document demands:
“DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1:
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO Brit With Grit, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2:
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO Better Ideas Team, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3:
All DOCUMENTS
CONCERNING payments made to Brit With Grit, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 4:
All DOCUMENTS CONCERNING payments made to Better Ideas
Team, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 5:
All DOCUMENTS CONCERNING payments made to Heather
Smith.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6:
All DOCUMENTS CONCERNING payments made to Andrew
Smith.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7:
All statements of accounts or positions held by Brit
With Grit, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8:
All statements of accounts or positions held by Better
Ideas Team, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9:
All statements of accounts or positions held by Andrew
Smith
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10:
All statements of accounts or positions held by
Heather Smith.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11:
All COMMUNICATIONS with Brit With Grit, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 12:
All COMMUNICATIONS with Better Ideas Team, Inc.
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 13:
All COMMUNICATIONS with Andrew Smith
DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14:
All COMMUNICATIONS with
Heather Smith.” (Ex. 2 to Pl.’s Opp.)
 
Defendants move to
quash the subject subpoena for the following reasons: “First, the subpoenaing party has inadequately described the
documents to be produced; second, the documents sought impermissibly seeks the
disclosure of financial information; and third, the documents sought invades
Defendants privacy, and privacy rights of third-parties.” (Defs.’ Mot.
3:14–17.)
 
A.   
Overbreadth
 
A Court may quash a
deposition subpoena for being overly broad to the extent that it amounts to
“nothing more than a fishing expedition” and therefore seeks the production of
irrelevant evidence. (People v. Serrata (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 9, 15.)
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s fourteen
demands essentially asked for everything in the custodian’s possession relating
to the litigation.” (Defs.’ Mot. 5:16–17.) “These requests are wholly overburdensome, not
particularized, not limited to any particular time frame, and essentially asks
for everything related to Brit With Grit, Inc., Better Ideas Team, Inc.” (Id.
at 6:8–10.) “It would be cost prohibitive and unreasonable to
search all of Powur’s records to find any and all documents that have
Brit with Grit, Inc., and Better Ideas Team, Inc. This would impose an undue
burden on the custodian of records such that the likely benefits of such
overbroad discovery is not outweighed by the cost.” (Id. at 6:14–17
[emphasis in original].) Defendants further argue that the requests are not
reasonably tailored to the relevant time frame, which “is problematic because
the relevant time frame based on the complaint (FAC ¶ 5) is only between 2015
to 2021.” (Id. at 6:19–20.)
 
1.     
Standing
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff contends that “it
is the non-party witness, not a party to the action, who may move to quash or
assert an objection to a subpoena.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:1–2, citing Monarch
Healthcare v. Superior Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1290.) However, as
Defendants observe on reply, Defendants, as parties to the action and as
consumers defined by Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (a)(2),
are explicitly permitted to bring a motion to quash a deposition subpoena for
business records directed at a nonparty deponent. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1,
subd. (b)(1).) Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants have the requisite authority
to bring the instant motion.
 
2.     
Scope of Document Requests
 
Defendants argue that
the subject demands are analogous to those in Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, where the defendant claimed that
gun mounts it contracted with the plaintiff to manufacture did not meet the
designated specifications, refused to accept the gun mounts, and contracted
with a third party to supply them. (53 Cal.App.4th at 219.) In the course of
litigation, the Calcor plaintiff served the third party manufacturer
with a document subpoena that included 32 document demands, “to, in effect, produce all materials in its possession relating to
gun mounts, going back nearly ten years.” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal
found that the “12–page demand might as well be condensed into a single
sentence: Produce everything in your possession which in any way relates to gun
mounts.” (Id. at 222.) The Court of Appeal concluded that the subpoena
was impermissibly overbroad because, “although facially detailed and
particularized, the demand, in effect, is very simple. It orders Calcor to
produce everything in its possession which has anything to do with gun mounts
(including the gun mount assemblies themselves).” (Id. at 220.) “The
burden is sought to be imposed on Calcor to search its extensive files, at many
locations, to see what it can find to fit Thiem’s definitions, instructions and
categories.” (Id. at 222.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition
that Calcor is distinguishable, and that this Court should instead follow
SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741. In SCC
Acquisitions, the Court of Appeal found that the judgment creditor’s four
requests for production of documents at issue, concerning the judgment debtor’s
current and former subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ assets, bank and brokerage
records, financial records, and bankruptcies, were not so broad as to be
abusive, even though the definitions included with the requests for production
were lengthy. (243 Cal.App.4th at 756–758.) In doing so, the Court of Appeal
also distinguished the SCC Acquisitions case from Calcor, because
the four subject requests each “asked for a discrete category of documents. The
definitions included with the requests for production, though lengthy, do not
make the requests overbroad, and do not turn them into blanket or generalized
demands. The definition of ‘DOCUMENT,’ for example, does not broaden the scope
of the requests, but provides particularity as to the types of documents and
things being sought.” (Id. at 757.)
 
Plaintiff analogizes
the instant case to SCC Acquisitions, arguing that “here, the Subpoena
merely seeks 14 categories of documents and contains less than two pages of
definitions. Each definition in the Subpoena is designed either to limit the
scope of the Demands for Production or to clarify their contents.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:21–23.)
Plaintiff further argues that Calcor is distinguishable because unlike
the blanket requests at issue in that case, here, the subject requests only
“seek information relating to a handful of individuals and entities.” (Id.
at 5:26.)
 
Defendants disagree,
arguing that “the actual subpoena requests could not possibly be
less targeted or tailored. They seek—quite literally—every document in Powur’s
possession relating to Defendant entities, on any topic, kept in any format, at
any time.” (Defs.’ Reply 6:25–27.) “Plaintiff did not ask for documents relating to the alleged
conversion or transfer of positions owned by BIT to one of the other Defendants
between the timeframe of 2016 to 2020—which would at least have attempted some
specificity in subject matter. Instead, Plaintiffs just asked for everything:
every single document and communication, regardless of scope or timeframe,
relating to Defendants.” (Defs.’ Reply 7:10–14.)
 
Upon review of the
subject subpoena, the Court finds that while the instant document requests are
not as egregiously overbroad as those in Calcor, they remain, as
written, facially overbroad, as they seek, for example, requests all documents
relating to BWG and BIT without limitation. However, the Court also finds that Plaintiff
is entitled to discovery of the requested documents because they may contain
information directly relevant to his claims that Defendants wrongfully
converted BIT assets and funds. Based on the foregoing, the Court limits the
document requests to 2015 to 2021, the relevant time period as framed in
Plaintiff’s SAC and quashes requests 1 and 2 as overbroad.  
 
 
 
 
B.    
Financial Information
 
“The right to privacy
under article I, section 1 of the California Constitution ‘extends to one's
confidential financial affairs.’ … This right embraces confidential financial
information in ‘whatever form it takes, whether that form be tax returns,
checks, statements, or other account information.’” (Overstock.com, Inc. v.
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 503.) When the
production of such private information is sought by way of discovery, the
burden falls on the party asserting a privacy interest to show that their
privacy interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of the
subpoenaing party’s prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
The constitutional
right to privacy applies to individuals, but not to corporations. (SCC Acquisitions,
243 Cal.App.4th at 755–756.) “While corporations do have a right to privacy, it
is not a constitutional right.” (Id. at 756.) Therefore, a balancing
test must be used, where “the discovery’s relevance to the subject matter of
the pending dispute and whether the discovery ‘appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence’ is balanced against the corporate
right of privacy.” (Ibid.)
 
1.     
Pretrial Financial Discovery
 
Defendants argue that under Civil Code section 3295,
subdivision (c), Plaintiff is precluded from pretrial discovery of Defendants’
financial condition absent a court order. (Defs.’ Mot. 7:24–26.) The statute provides, in relevant part, that “no
pretrial discovery by the plaintiff shall be permitted with respect to … [the
financial condition of the defendant] unless the court enters an order
permitting such discovery pursuant to this subdivision.” (Civ. Code § 3295,
subd. (c).) Civil Code section 3295 applies to actions arising out of a breach
of an obligation other than contract, where punitive damages are sought. (Civ.
Code §§ 3295, subd. (a), 3294, subd (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff requests punitive damages in
connection with each of his causes of action, and has not sought a court order
to discover documents pertaining to Defendants’ financial condition. (SAC ¶¶ 24,
29, 34, 41.) Nevertheless, Defendants’ argument lacks merit because the
statutory language plainly carves out an exception for this information to be
sought by way of deposition subpoena. (Civ. Code § 3295, subd. (c) [“However,
the plaintiff may subpoena documents or witnesses to be available at the trial for
the purpose of establishing the profits or financial condition … and the
defendant may be required to identify documents in the defendant’s possession
which are relevant and admissible for that purpose.”].) 
 
Accordingly, the Court
finds that Defendants’ motion to quash the subject deposition subpoena on this
ground lacks merit.
//
//
2.     
Financial Privacy
 
Defendants further
argue that they “have a reasonable expectation of privacy in their income,
finances, sales information, and commissions from Powur. This is Defendants’
source of income, and how much they earn through commissions … should be
protected from disclosure, or at minimum limited in how that information may be
used.” (Defs.’ Mot. 9:17–20.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that he “seeks these
records to prove that Defendants converted corporate assets for the own benefit
in breach of their fiduciary obligations to BIT and Plaintiff.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:7–8.)
“The records sought by the Subpoena directly bear on each of Conelly’s causes
of action. They do not go to Defendants’ net worth, instead going to the heart
of the action itself.” (Id. at 6:23–25.)
 
Defendants argue in reply that “‘an
accounting of payments made from Powur to Defendants’ would not show whether
any payment was improper, whether any company funds were used to acquire the
position, whether Defendants converted Powur positions to their own personal
use, or otherwise in any way inform any of the causes of action.” (Defs.’ Reply
4:27–5:2.) “In all, the information sought by Plaintiff is sought only to
harass Defendants and pry into their net worth.” (Id. at 5:7–8.) “In
this case, Plaintiff has offered no basis which would justify the highly
invasive, fishing expedition of financial records of Andrew Smith, his wife,
and his company, that Plaintiff seeks to conduct.” (Id. at 5:14–16.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the
information sought by Plaintiff by way of the instant deposition subpoena is
directly relevant to his claims against Defendants, namely that they wrongfully
converted BIT assets and funds for their own personal benefit. While the Court
acknowledges that the individual Defendants have a right to privacy in their
financial information, the Court finds that Defendants’ privacy interests are
outweighed by Plaintiff’s interests in discovery of such information to support
his claims. Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants’
motion to quash the subject deposition subpoena on this ground lacks merit.
 
C.   
Third-Party Privacy
 
The constitutional
protection of privacy in discovery matters also extends to nonparties. “In
weighing the privacy interests of the third party, the trial court should
consider the nature of the information sought, its inherent intrusiveness, and
any specific showing of a need for privacy, including any harm that disclosure
of the information might cause.” (In re Marriage of Williamson (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1303, 1319.)
 
Here, Defendants assert
that “demands 1-10 relate to Defendants’ financial condition, assets, moneys
paid, transactional history, and because of how broadly worded these requests
are, customer contact information, and financial information of third-party
customers are implicated. The documents sought related to ‘statements of
accounts or positions held’ is so broadly worded that it would include
Defendants’ income, Defendants’ financial condition, client contact
information, as well as client payments to Powur.” (Defs.’ Mot. 9:5–10.)
Defendants further argue that “for third-party customers/clients whose contact
information, payments, and related information should not be produced at all.
Third-party customers would not reasonably expect that being clients through
Powur could have their private financial information (payments made), and their
contact information disclosed.” (Id. at 9:21–24.)
 
Plaintiff argues in
opposition that he “does not seek third-party client names, payment history,
and related financial information as Defendants assert. The Subpoena seeks
payments from Powur to Defendants. Nevertheless, to the
extent documents responsive to the Subpoena contain sensitive third-party
client information, Plaintiff is amenable to the redaction of such information.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:10–13.)
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff that the subject requests do not facially seek the private
information of any third parties, but to the extent that the responsive
documents contain such information, the information may be redacted. 
 
D.   
Sanctions
 
“In making an order pursuant
to motion made under … Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1987.2, subd. (a).) Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests $6,500.00 in monetary sanctions
against Defendants and/or their counsel. (Decl. of Morgan T. Lynch ¶¶ 12–13.)
Defendants argue on reply that monetary sanctions are not warranted because the
motion was made with substantial justification. (Defs.’ Reply 9:14–15.) The
Court agrees, and further finds that monetary sanctions are not warranted in
this instance because neither party was completely successful in bringing or
opposing the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
motion is granted in part. The Court limits the scope of the subject document
requests to the years 2015-2021 and to requests 3 through 14.    