  Case Number:  17STPB03682    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR ORDER SETTING SCOPE OF TRIAL
 
In re: Ruth
Williamson 2011 Trust dated August 11, 2011, Case No. 17STPB03682 (related to
Case Nos. 17STPB02381, YC071970 and YC071983)
Anne Farrell, et al.,
Petitioners, v. Thomas D. Williamson, et al., Respondents 
Hearing Date: May 28,
2024, 10:30 a.m.  
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
          On April 20,
2023, at an initial status conference before the undersigned concerning these
cases that it had been sent for trial, the Court noted its inclination to
address those issues that could be decided while the Utah Court of Appeal
considered a judgment from a trial in Utah related to elder abuse involving
these same parties that are substantially like the issues in the civil elder
abuse action (YC 071983). 
          On February
28, 2024, the Court scheduled Phase 2 of the trial in the above-referenced 2011
Trust case to begin September 30, 2024, following issuance of a Final Statement
of Decision from the Phase 1 of trial on that petition (which also applies by
stipulation to the civil elder abuse case). Counsel indicated that it could
likely be completed within the eight court days provided. The parties also
discussed whether trial should include the elder abuse action given the pending
appeal in Utah. The Court invited Petitioners to file a motion on whether trial
should include the elder abuse issues with the issues to be tried in the two
Probate cases. 
          On May 3,
2024, Petitioners filed a motion for an order setting the scope of trial. They
argue that the Court should decide all remaining issues in the four cases as a
matter of fairness and efficiency under CCP sec. 598. They contend there are
overlapping issues between these cases, that have in common wrongdoing by
Thomas Williamson, which would require witnesses to keep having to return to
court (some of them non-parties from out of state) if they were tried
separately. In addition, they note that these cases have been pending for seven
years, that litigation of these cases has been expensive and that further delay
benefits only Respondents. They argue also that the appeal concerns
jurisdictional and fee issues that do not challenge the factual findings of
elder abuse by the Utah court. In addition, they indicate that the Utah court
excluded the elder abuse issues already pending in this Court. 
          On May 14,
2024, Respondents filed Opposition to the motion. Respondents agree that the
Court should try at one time in September the two Probate cases, as well as the
quiet title action (YC 071970). They acknowledge that the continuing validity
of Ruth Williamson’s 2005 will depend on the validity of her 2011 will and contemporaneously
executed trust. What remains of the quiet title action (after sale of the
property) turns on what authority Thomas Williamson had under these estate
planning documents. 
          Respondents disagree
that the elder abuse action should be tried at the same time. They contend that
the issues in the elder abuse case do not overlap with the other cases where
they rest on what occurred during a different time-period in 2016 between when Ruth
Williamson moved to Utah and died there later that year. They argue that those
events are unrelated to the events five years earlier when Ruth Williamson
executed the will and trust. Moreover, they contend that the outcome of the
appeal from the judgment in the elder abuse action tried in Utah challenges the
factual findings of that court and therefore may impact what is to be tried
here. Finally, they indicate that the length of time for direct and
cross-examination of the twenty witnesses (including three experts) Petitioners
have identified will far exceed the length of time scheduled for trial. Respondents
themselves had thirty-two witnesses on its their witness list for the elder
abuse case tried in Utah. In summary, they contend that though these have been
pending for some time, in the interim Plaintiffs have received considerable
money and that these cases are brought out of undue vengeance. 
          On May 20,
2024, Petitioners filed a Reply. They make three arguments: First, that the
Court should not “split up” these cases but consolidate them in the interests
of witnesses having to testify more than once and of the parties given how long
these cases have been pending. Second, that the result of the appeal in Utah
will not impact this case and that the appeal ill likely be decided before the
trial date in any event. Third, that the number of witnesses will not be as
many as Respondents assert and that regardless, it will be still more efficient
to try all issues at one time rather than separately. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          The parties agree
that the two Probate cases and the quiet title action can be tried together. 
          The subject
matter of these three matters differs from that in the elder abuse case as far
as when the events occurred. What may have happened in 2016 would not impact
what occurred in 2011. In turn, what happened in 2016 appears to be a
significantly different circumstance than events in 2011. The Reply does not
argue otherwise. The Court believes it best that the parties focus on each set
of events separately rather than trying to cover two time periods at the same
time. The Court is not convinced that consolidating these separate cases will
produce greater efficiency. Further, in this court’s experience, the resolution
of one issue between parties very often resolves other issues between those same
parties. 
          Moreover, the
elder abuse action would appear to overlap with the Utah elder abuse case at
least to some degree. As the Court noted at its initial status conference, it
has insufficient time, given the number of cases it has, to try a case that might
be avoided depending on the outcome of the appeal by way of issue or claim
preclusion. This Court has no control over the appellate process in Utah. Part
of the reason these cases have been pending as long as they have (leaving aside
court delays due to COVID) is that there has been parallel litigation in Utah.[1] When
the Utah case is finally concluded, this court will promptly assess how to
proceed with the elder abuse case. The Court cannot evaluate whether the
judgment in the Utah court precludes claims or litigation of issues here where
there are competing claims concerning whether the appeal addresses the
underlying facts in that case and this court was not provided any of those
filings on that appeal to evaluate. 
          In addition,
the time allotted for trial in September will not be enough time to also try
the elder abuse case. This courtroom has trials in other cases already scheduled
immediately after the trial in these cases. Though the court indicated that it
might be able to extend the trial by a few days, if necessary, it appears that
the number of witnesses likely to testify, whether by deposition or otherwise,
and even if this is not all those Respondents indicate, that the time necessary
will far exceed the time available. The court also wishes to avoid bringing
witnesses to court more than once, especially if they are from out of state and
non-parties, however, this concern can be mitigated if the parties these
witnesses testify remotely by web technology.    
          Finally, the
parties do not address whether they have both waived the right to a jury trial in
the elder abuse case. Though the Court believes that they may have, it was not
clear where that was reflected in the file. There would also have needed to be
a waiver of jury if the elder abuse case was to be tried with the other cases. 
          The Court
will hear any motion Petitioners wish to bring that based on claim or issue
preclusion arising from the Utah elder abuse case, this may dispose of or
shorten the elder abuse trial. Petitioners may bring that motion as soon as
they believe the Utah case is final (if not already).
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these
reasons, the Court finds that applying all these considerations, as well as
judicial economy, that the best use of the Court’s time would be for the scope
of the trial in September to concern the two Probate cases and the remaining
part of the quiet title action, but not the elder abuse case. 
          The Court will
not set a trial date in the elder abuse case until the appeal in the Utah case
is concluded. As soon as it is concluded, Petitioners can file an ex parte
application for a trial setting conference. Any trial date will also only be
after the Court has heard any applicable motion for summary judgment or
adjudication. 
 


