 Case Number:  22STCV35760    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Sajith Weerasignhe, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV35760




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party: Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
Responding Party:
Plaintiff Sajith Weerasignhe
 
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS
DENIED. DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS
TO ALL ISSUES ARE DENIED.
 
            DEFENDANT
to notice.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff Sajith Weerasignhe
sued Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and Cedars-Sinai Health
System, asserting causes of action for (1) discrimination on the basis of
disability and failure to provide a reasonable accommodation in violation of
FEHA; (2) failure to engage in the interactive process in violation of FEHA;
(3) age discrimination in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) retaliation in
violation of Cal. Labor Code section 1102.5; (6) retaliation in violation of
Cal. Health & Safety § 1278.5; (7) interference and retaliation in
violation of CFRA; and (8) wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
 
Plaintiff, a 58 year-old male with diabetes, worked as a Security
Officer during his employment with Cedars-Sinai. Plaintiff was diagnosed with
diabetes in 2015, which he alleges did not affect his work. On one occasion, he
fell asleep at his post as a side effect of a new medication for diabetes.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants wrongfully terminated his employment in
violation of the FEHA and discriminated against him on the basis of his
disability.
 
Defendant requests summary judgment, or in the alternative summary
adjudication of the following issues: 
 
ISSUE NO.
1: Plaintiff’s “First Cause of Action” for “discrimination on the basis of
disability and failure to accommodate disability” under the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) fails as a matter of law because the
undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie
case of disability discrimination.
 
ISSUE NO.
2: Plaintiff’s “First Cause of Action” for “discrimination on the basis of
disability and failure to accommodate disability” under FEHA fails as a matter
of law because the undisputed material facts show that CSMC terminated
Plaintiff for legitimate, nondiscriminatory, and non-pretextual reasons.
 
ISSUE NO.
3: Plaintiff’s “First Cause of Action” for “discrimination on the basis of
disability and failure to accommodate disability” under FEHA fails as a matter
of law because the undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff did not
request an accommodation for his alleged disability.
 
ISSUE NO.
4: Plaintiff’s “Second Cause of Action” for “failure to engage in the
interactive process” under FEHA fails as a matter of law because the undisputed
material facts show that Plaintiff is unable to identify an available
reasonable accommodation that the interactive process should have produced.
 
ISSUE NO.
5: Plaintiff’s “Third Cause of Action” for “age discrimination” under FEHA
fails as a matter of law because the undisputed facts show that Plaintiff
cannot establish a prima facie case of age discrimination.
 
ISSUE NO.
6: Plaintiff’s “Third Cause of Action” for “age discrimination” under FEHA
fails as a matter of law because the undisputed facts show that CSMC terminated
Plaintiff for legitimate, nondiscriminatory, and non-pretextual reasons.
 
ISSUE NO.
7: Plaintiff’s “Fourth Cause of Action” for “failure to prevent discrimination
and retaliation” under FEHA fails as a matter of law because the undisputed
material facts show that Plaintiff’s underlying FEHA discrimination and
retaliation claims or not cognizable.
 
ISSUE NO.
8: Plaintiff’s “Fifth Cause of Action” for “retaliation” under California Labor
Code section 1102.5 fails as a matter of law because the undisputed material
facts show that Plaintiff did not engage in any activity protected under
section 1102.5.
 
ISSUE NO.
9: Plaintiff’s “Fifth Cause of Action” for “retaliation” under California Labor
Code section 1102.5 fails as a matter of law because the undisputed material
facts show that Plaintiff will be unable to carry his initial burden establish,
by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation was a contributing factor
in a challenged employment action.
 
ISSUE NO.
10: Plaintiff’s “Fifth Cause of Action” for “retaliation” under California
Labor Code section 1102.5 fails as a matter of law because CSMC has
demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the
action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had Plaintiff not
engaged in alleged protected activity. 
 
ISSUE NO.
11: Plaintiff’s “Sixth Cause of Action” for “retaliation” under California
Health and Safety Code section 1278.5 fails as a matter of law because the
undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie
case of retaliation.
 
ISSUE NO.
12: Plaintiff’s “Sixth Cause of Action” for “retaliation” under California
Health and Safety Code section 1278.5 fails as a matter of law because the
undisputed material facts show that CSMC terminated Plaintiff for legitimate,
non-retaliatory, and non-pretextual reasons.
 
ISSUE NO.
13: Plaintiff’s “Seventh Cause of Action” for “retaliation” in violation of the
California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”) fails as a matter of law because the
undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action because of his exercise of rights under the CFRA.
 
ISSUE NO.
14: Plaintiff’s “Seventh Cause of Action” for “interference” in violation of
the CFRA fails as a matter of law because the undisputed material facts show
that CSMC did not interfere with Plaintiff’s rights under the CFRA or deny him
rights protected by the CFRA.
 
ISSUE NO.
15: Plaintiff’s “Eighth Cause of Action” for “wrongful termination in violation
of public policy” fails as a matter of law because the undisputed material
facts show that Plaintiff’s underlying discrimination claims are not
cognizable.
 
ISSUE NO.
16: Plaintiff’s “Eighth Cause of Action” for “wrongful termination in violation
of public policy” fails as a matter of law because the undisputed material
facts show that Plaintiff’s underlying retaliation claims are not cognizable.
 
ISSUE NO.
17: Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages against CSMC fails as a matter of
law because the undisputed material facts show that Plaintiff cannot establish,
by clear and convincing evidence, that CSMC or one of CSMC’s officers,
directors, or managing agents subjected him to malicious, oppressive, or
fraudulent behavior or authorized or ratified such conduct.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice as to Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on
November 10, 2022. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a
mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether,
despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts
to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
Once the defendant has met that burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive
evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
A.        First Cause of Action for
Discrimination
 
To successfully assert a claim for discrimination, Plaintiff must
satisfy the requirements of the three-step McDonnell Douglas test. (See Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354- 55.) Generally, a prima
facie case requires showing that (1) plaintiff was a member of a protected
class; (2) they were qualified for the position they sought or were performing
competently in the position they held; (3) plaintiff suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job; and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive. (See id.
at 355.)
Once a plaintiff has established a prima facie case, there is a
“rebuttable” but “legally mandatory” presumption of discrimination. (Id.
at 355.) The burden then shifts to the defendant to rebut the presumption by
producing admissible evidence that the defendant’s “action was taken for a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.” (Id. at 355-356.)
 
If the defendant meets its burden, “the presumption of discrimination
disappears.” (Id. at 356.) The plaintiff must then show that the
defendant’s legitimate reason is merely pretext. (Id.) “Pretext may be
inferred from the timing of the discharge decision, the identity of the
decision- maker, or by the discharged employee's job performance before
termination.” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215,
224.) “Pretext may [also] be demonstrated by showing that the proffered reason
had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually motivate the
discharge, or the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge.” (Id.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff's claim for discrimination fails
because Plaintiff failed to perform the essential functions of his job as a
Security Officer, with or without reasonable accommodation. Plaintiff was found
sleeping on duty on February 5, 2022, demonstrating an inability to remain
alert and observant. Defendant argues that no reasonable accommodation could
allow Plaintiff to sleep or be drowsy while performing these necessary
functions. Defendant also contends that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima
facie case of age discrimination because Plaintiff's performance did not meet
satisfactory standards required for the job.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s reasons for termination
are pretext. Plaintiff says he was a member of a protected class since 2015 due
to his diagnosis with diabetes, meeting the definition of disability under FEHA.
Plaintiff states he has demonstrated he could perform the essential functions
of his position as a Security Officer. Plaintiff argues that reasonable
accommodations would have allowed him to continue his duties effectively, and
that Defendant failed to offer any accommodations, such as adjustments in post
location, snack breaks, or medical leave for medication adjustments. Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant’s refusal to engage in an interactive process to discuss
reasonable accommodations also constitutes discrimination. And Plaintiff
suggests that his termination was a pretext for discrimination, given the
timing relative to his disability disclosure and requests for accommodations,
and the absence of a thorough investigation into his work performance issues. This
is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to discrimination.
 
            Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of issues
1, 2, and 3, regarding the first cause of action is DENIED.
 
B.        Second Cause of Action
for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process 
 
Government Code section 12940(m) provides that it is an unlawful
employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to fail to make reasonable
accommodation for the known physical or mental disability of an applicant or
employee.” (Govt. Code, § 12940(m)(1).)
 
Government Code section 12940(n) provides that it is an unlawful
employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to fail to engage in a timely,
good faith, interactive process with the employee or applicant to determine
effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request for
reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical or
mental disability or known medical condition.” (Govt. Code, § 12940(n).)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has presented evidence that Defendant
failed to provide reasonable accommodations and did not engage in a timely,
good faith, interactive process. 
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of issue 4 regarding to the
second cause of action is DENIED.
 
C.        Third Cause of Action for
Age Discrimination
 
            Plaintiff asserts that
his third cause of action for age discrimination will be dismissed. 
 
            Therefore, Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication as to issues 5 and 6 regarding the third cause
of action are DENIED as MOOT.
 
D.        Fourth Cause of Action
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation; Fifth and Sixth Causes of
Action for Retaliation; Seventh Cause of Acton for Interference; Eighth Cause
of Action for Wrongful Termination
 
To establish retaliation, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A retaliation claim can be brought by
an employee who has complained of conduct reasonably believed to be
discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.)
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has presented evidence of a causal link
between Plaintiff’s complaints and his termination. The evidence shows that
prior to and following his termination, Plaintiff made complaints that he was
being discriminated and retaliated against. Plaintiff told Croft that he took a
medication for his diabetes that resulted in his drowsiness and thought he was
being retaliated against due to a conversation with managers about staffing,
pay, and health and safety. (PAMF nos. 139-140. The only action Croft took was
forwarding the email to Lee, who did not do anything. (PAMF nos. 157-158]).
Plaintiff also protested to Babyan and Newton that his termination was
discriminatory and retaliatory, which did not result in any action. (PAMF nos.
143-145.) This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to
retaliation.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of issues 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17, regarding the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and
eighth causes of action are DENIED.
 
E.        Punitive Damages
 
            Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff cannot prove that Newton (Security Department Operations Supervisor)
or Parks (Executive Director of Security and Transportation Services) were
officers, directors, or managing agents of CSMC, as required by California Civil
Code § 3294(a)–(b) for punitive damages. Defendant also argues there is no
evidence that Newton or Parks acted with malice, oppression, or fraud towards Plaintiff.
Defendant says that the termination decision, prompted by Plaintiff’s second
incident of sleeping on duty despite prior written notice of termination risk
for such behavior, was a standard procedure applied consistently to other
security officers for similar offenses. Defendant contends that the termination
was based on an honest belief in the insufficiency of Plaintiff’s job
performance, specifically citing Plaintiff's repeated violations of policy
against sleeping on duty. 
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that clear and convincing evidence does not require conclusive
proof at the summary judgment stage. According to Plaintiff, punitive damages
are justified where an employer’s managing agents have participated in or
ratified discriminatory or retaliatory conduct. Plaintiff asserts that evidence
demonstrates such behavior by Defendant’s managing agents, including specific
individuals with significant authority within the company, who exhibited
reckless, wanton, and despicable conduct through discriminatory treatment of Plaintiff.
Plaintiff identifies Robert Parks, Tom Newton, Bryan Croft, and Clare Lee as
responsible for the alleged unlawful conduct. Parks and Newton are implicated
directly, while Croft, a Vice President reporting to the CEO, ratified and
condoned their actions without protecting Plaintiff. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff
has presented triable issues of fact as to these claims.
 
            Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication of the claim for punitive damages is DENIED.
 