 Case Number:  23STCP02375    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition, etc., 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
City of Los Angeles, etc., 


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Motion for Leave to Amend Answer  
Moving Party: Respondent City of Los
Angeles  
Responding Party: Petitioner
Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition
 
T/R:    RESPONDENT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE
ANSWER IS GRANTED. THE AMENDED ANSWER SHALL BE FILED WITHIN 10 DAYS.
 
            RESPONDENT
to notice.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On August
7, 2023, Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition filed the operative First
Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (FAP) against Respondent City of Los
Angeles, alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of the California
Environmental Quality Act; (2) violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code 11.5.13;
(3) violation of Mount Washington/Glassell Park Specific Plan; (4) violation of
California Due Process/Fair Hearing; and (5) Patterns and Practices that
Violate the Specific Plan, Constitutional Rights of Land Use Appellants and
Persons Entitled to Notice and to be Heard. This action arises from the review
process for a proposed house development at 464-466 Crane Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA.
 
            Before the
Court is Respondent’s Motion for Leave to Amend its Answer to the FAP.
 
 
ANALYSIS
The trial
court has discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (a)(1).) 
Courts liberally permit amendments to the
pleadings at any stage of the proceedings. (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) An application to amend a pleading is addressed to
the trial judge’s sound discretion. (Ibid.) “[L]iberality should be
displayed in allowing amendments to answers, for a defendant denied leave to
amend is permanently deprived of a defense.” (Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.) 
 
Respondent seeks to add two affirmative defenses and legal theories
to their Answer based on facts disclosed in the administrative record. The
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered by counsel for
Respondent in the last week of February 2024, while analyzing the
administrative record and relevant law to prepare discovery responses and brief
the merits of the case. 
 
Petitioner argues that Respondent seeks to add a defense to the
Brown Act, which is not in the operative pleading. But Petitioner indicated in
meet and confer correspondence that it seeks to add a cause of action under the
Brown Act, and Petitioner has argued that Defendant’s pre-PLUM process violates
the Brown Act. And the FAP alleges that Respondent engaged in an unlawful
pre-PLUM Committee Process. Adding a defense based on such cause of action
would allow Respondent to defend this issue and would not prevent Petitioner from
addressing it. 
 
            Allowing
Respondent to amend its Answer is appropriate. Petitioner has shown no
prejudice. The motion is GRANTED.
 
  


 