 Case Number:  22STCV25974    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



EDDIE MORGADO, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GIANNINA VANESSA SALAZAR,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV25974




Hearing Date:


December 1, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
MOTION FOR
  PREFERENCE AND TRIAL SETTING




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background 
Plaintiff
Eddie Morgado (“Morgado”) filed this action on August 10, 2022 against
Defendant Giannina Vanessa Salazar (“Salazar”). The Complaint alleges causes
of action for (1) contractual and tortious breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (2) nuisance, (3) negligence, (4) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200 et seq., and (5) violation of Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 151.33. 
On February 6, 2023, Salazar filed a Cross-Complaint against Eviction
Services, LLC and Roes 1-10, alleging a number of causes of action. 
Morgado
now moves for an order establishing Morgado’s entitlement to
trial preference. Salazar opposes. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
36, subdivision (a), “[a] party to a civil action
who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the
court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” 
In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (d), “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a motion for
preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation
that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition
raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months,
and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by
granting the preference.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (e), “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the
interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.” Upon
the granting of a motion for trial preference, “the court shall set the matter
for trial not more than 120 days from that date.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
Plaintiff asserts that “[h]ere, Plaintiff is entitled to a
preferential trial date because he is merely three years shy of 70 years old
and battling a life threatening health condition which continues to be
exacerbated by the Defendant.” (Mot. at p. 5:25-27.) 
In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “I was born on
February 8, 1956 and I am 67 years old.” (Morgado Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff states
that “[i]n or around October 2021, I was diagnosed with Squamous Cell
Carcinoma. I was given less than a year to live. Notwithstanding, I am alive.”
(Morgado Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff attaches as Exhibit 1 to his declaration a copy of his
“diagnosis prepared by [his] doctor and entitled Work Status Report.” (Morgado
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) This “Work Status Report” lists an “Encounter Date &
Time” of November 22, 2022, and is electronically signed by Jennifer J. Chang,
MD on November 22, 2022. (Ibid.) The Work Status Report lists a diagnosis
of “Squamous Cell Carcinoma,” and provides, inter alia, that “Mr. Eddie
Morgado is a patient under my medical care. He has recently been diagnosed with
a grave illness and life expectancy is less than 12 months. At this point,
housing and keeping him housed is an essential requirement to his wellbeing,
health, and maintenance of medical treatment.” (Ibid.)

In the opposition, Salazar asserts that Morgado “has failed to carry
his burden of proof by showing by clear and convincing medical documentation
that Plaintiff suffers from a condition raising a substantial doubt of survival
beyond six months.” (Opp’n at p. 1:24-26.) Salazar notes that the motion acknowledges
that “Mr. Morgado has since successfully completed his treatment…” (Mot. at p.
3:24-25.) Salazar also notes that Morgado “attempts to rely upon an old ‘Work
Status Report’ dated November 22, 2022, a year ago, but in the Plaintiff’s
Declaration…Plaintiff states he was diagnosed with skin cancer in October
2021.” (Opp’n at p. 2:2-4.)[1] Morgado
does not address these points in the reply. 

In light of the foregoing, the Court agrees with Salazar that Morgado
has not provided “clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Morgado’s motion for trial preference is denied,
without prejudice.  
Salazar is to provide notice of
this ruling.¿ 
 
DATED:  December 1, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


