  Case Number:  21STCP01985    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







NICOLE SULLIVAN,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,  
                        Respondents.


Case
  No.:


21STCP01985




Hearing Date:


December
   1, 2023




Hearing
  Time:


10:00
   a.m.




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:  
PETITIONER NICOLE SULLIVAN’S [AMENDED]
  PETITION FOR ORDER FROM [SIC] RELIEF FROM CLAIM STATUTE



 
Background
On June 21, 2021, Petitioner
Nicole Sullivan (“Petitioner”) filed a “Petition for Order From Relief From
Claim Statute” (the “Petition”) in this action against the County of Los
Angeles (“County”) and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, (jointly
“Respondents”). 
Petitioner sought an
order “granting the Petitioner’s requested relief herein from the provisions
of ¿Cal Gov. Code §
945.6¿.” (See
May 2, 2022 Order.) The County opposed. On May 2, 2022, the Court issued an
Order denying the petition. 
Thereafter,
Petitioner moved for an order for reconsideration and/or to vacate and/or to
set aside the May 2, 2022 Order. On August 4, 2022, the Court issued an Order
providing, inter alia, that “[b]ecause Petitioner attached the November
27, 2020 ‘Application to Present a Late Claim’ document to her reply in support
of the petition, and because her counsel purportedly made an oral request at
the at the May 2, 2022 hearing for
leave to amend the petition accordingly, there appears to be additional
evidence that the Court should have considered in connection with the
petition.” (August 4, 2022 Order at p. 4:1-5.) The Court granted Petitioner’s
motion for reconsideration and vacated its May 2, 2022 Order. The August 4, 2022 Order also provides that
“Petitioner may file an amended petition…” (Id. at p. 4:10.) 
On August 17, 2023,
Petitioner filed an “[Amended] Petition for Order for Relief From [sic] Claim
Statute” (the “Amended Petition”). The County opposes.  
Discussion
As an initial matter, although the Amended Petition states that Petitioner
seeks relief “from the provisions of Cal Gov. Code §
945.6,” (Amended Petition at p. 3:8-9), it appears based on a review of the
remainder of the Amended Petition that Petitioner seeks relief from Government Code section 945.4, which provides
that “[e]xcept
as provided in Sections 946.4 and 946.6, no suit
for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of
action for which a claim is required to be presented…until a written claim
therefor has been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the
board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board…” 
            In her declaration in support of the
instant amended petition, Petitioner states, inter alia, that “[o]n
or around December 3, 2019, I was attacked by my estranged husband, Tracy
Burage, Jr. (‘Burage’) while I was in a woman’s restroom inside the Airport
Courthouse.”
(Sullivan Decl., ¶ 5.) Petitioner states that “[a]fter being attacked, I
was at first in denial that I was a victim of domestic violence, and I was in
fear of what would Burage would do to me if I reported the incident.” (Sullivan
Decl., ¶ 6.) Petitioner “[e]ventually…reported the incident to the South Los
Angeles Sheriff’s station (the ‘South LASD’) on February 18, 2020,” and
“specifically reported the incident to a ‘Deputy Cornea’…” (Sullivan Decl., ¶¶
7-8.)
            Petitioner states that “[o]n April
14, 2020, [Petitioner] received an email from Detective Miguel Jimenez-Ramirez
(‘Detective Jimenez-Ramirez’) from the South LASD in which Detective
Jimenez-Ramirez advised [Petitioner] that [her] case against Burage…was under
review by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office…” (Sullivan Decl.,
¶ 10.) Petitioner states that “[i]n that same email, Detective Jimenez-Ramirez
also advised that video footage from the surveillance cameras at the
courthouse…had been erased on or around January 18, 2020.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶
11.) Petitioner states that “[a]fter being advised that the surveillance
footage had been erased and without receiving any substantive update regarding
the status of my case, I decided to take action into my own hands and I filed a
complaint against the South LASD and the specific officers whom I had been
dealing with, including, but not limited to, Deputy Cornea and Detective
Jimenez-Ramirez.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶ 12.) 
            Petitioner states that she filed her
claim “electronically through the Office of Inspector General’s (the ‘OIG’)
filing portal on April 18, 2020.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶ 13.) Petitioner states
that she “never received any written response after filing [her] complaint in
the OIG’s filing portal, which [she] believed was the most appropriate place to
file [her] claims against the South LASD and its officers.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶
16.) 
Petitioner also filed a supplemental declaration on August 14, 2023,
in which she states that “[w]hen I submitted my claim to the OIG, I was not
represented by counsel, and my decision to present my claim to the OIG was
based upon information that I researched online… I was unaware that there may
have been issues with the claim that I submitted to the OIG until I later
retained counsel.” (Suppl. Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 18-19.) Petitioner states that
“[a]fter retaining my current counsel, we filed the Application and a claim…on
or around November 27, 2020…” (Suppl. Sullivan Decl., ¶ 21.) 
            Petitioner
states in the instant Amended Petition that “[o]n or around November 27,
2020, the Petitioner, by and through the undersigned, filed and served the Late
Claim Application on the County. See Exhibit ‘A’. The Late Claim Application
was rejected by the County on or around February 2, 2021. See Exhibit ‘D’.”
(Amended Petition at p. 5:25-28.)  
Government Code Section 956.6 
Government Code section 946.6, subdivision
(a) provides that “[i]f an application for leave to present a
claim is denied or deemed to be denied pursuant to Section
911.6, a petition may be made to the court for an order relieving the
petitioner from Section 945.4.” Such petition shall show each of the
following: (1) the application was made
to the board under Government Code section 911.4 and
was denied or deemed denied, (2) the reason for failure to present the claim
within the time limit specified in Government Code
section 911.2, and (3) the information required by Government Code section 910. (Gov.
Code, § 946.6, subd. (b).) In addition, “[t]he
petition shall be filed within six months after the application to the board is
denied or deemed to be denied pursuant to Section
911.6.” (Ibid.) 
“The court shall relieve the petitioner
from the requirements of Section 945.4 if the court
finds that the application to the board under Section
911.4 was made within a reasonable time not to exceed that specified in
subdivision (b) of Section 911.4 and was denied or
deemed denied pursuant to Section 911.6,” and that
one or more of certain specified circumstances are applicable, including that
“[t]he failure to present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect unless the public entity establishes that it
would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the court relieves the
petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4.”
(Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (c)(1).) 
“The court shall make an independent determination upon
the petition. The determination shall be made upon the basis of the petition,
any affidavits in support of or in opposition to the petition, and any
additional evidence received at the hearing on the petition.” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (e).) “If the court makes an
order relieving the petitioner from Section 945.4,
suit on the cause of action to which the claim relates shall be filed with the
court within 30 days thereafter.” (Gov. Code, § 946.6,
subd. (f).)
As to the requirement
that the petition show “[t]hat application was made to the
board under Section 911.4[1] and
was denied or deemed denied,” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b)(1)), Petitioner
provides, as discussed above, a document titled “Application to Present a Late
Claim” dated November 27, 2020. (Amended Petition, Ex. A.) Petitioner states
that “[a]fter retaining my current counsel, we filed the Application and
a claim…on or around November 27, 2020…” (Suppl. Sullivan Decl., ¶ 21.)
Petitioner’s counsel states that “[t]he Application included the late claim,
and it was rejected by the Respondents on or around February 3, 2021.”
(Williams Reply Decl., ¶ 13.) Exhibit “D” attached to the Amended Petition is a
letter dated February 3, 2021 which provides, inter alia, that “the
claim that you presented to the County of Los Angeles, Board of Supervisors on
November 30, 2020, was rejected by operation of law on January 27, 2021…”
(Amended Petition, Ex. D.) 
As to the requirement that “[t]he petition shall be filed
within six months after the application to the board is denied or deemed to be
denied pursuant to Section 911.6” (Gov. Code, § 946.6), Petitioner
asserts that “the Claim was denied on or around February 2, 2021. The
Petitioner therefore timely petitioned the Court for relief when she filed the
Petition on June 21, 2021, which was within the six (6) month period prescribed
by Cal. Gov. Code § 946.6(b).” (Amended Petition,
p. 10:1-3.) As set forth above, Petitioner indicates that “[t]he Application
included the late claim, and it was rejected by the Respondents on or around
February 3, 2021.” (Williams Reply Decl., ¶ 13, emphasis added.) In any
event, the initial Petition in the instant action was filed on June 21, 2021,
less than six months after February 3, 2021. 
As to the requirement that the petition show “[t]he
reason for failure to present the claim within the time limit specified
in Section 911.2,” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b)(2))[2],
Petitioner asserts that her “failure to timely present a claim to
the County was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise and/or excusable neglect.
The Petitioner, acting in pro per, timely submitted the Original Claim to the
OIG; however, the Original Claim should have been sent to the County, and not
the OIG. Because the Original Claim was sent to the OIG via mistake,
inadvertence and/or excusable neglect and was thus improperly presented, the
County failed to respond to the Original Claim. After the County failed to
respond to the Original Claim, the Petitioner retained the services of the
undersigned as counsel, and she timely submitted the Late Claim Application to
the County.” (Amended Petition at pp. 10:25-11:4.) 
As set forth above, Petitioner states in her supporting declaration
that “I filed my claim electronically through the Office of Inspector General’s
(the ‘OIG’) filing portal on April 18, 2020.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶ 13.)
Petitioner further states in the declaration that “I never received any written
response after filing my complaint in the OIG’s filing portal, which I believed
was the most appropriate place to file my claims against the South LASD and its
officers…I am not an attorney and I have no legal training whatsoever and my
belief that the OIG’s filing portal was the proper place to file my grievances
against the South LASD and its officers was based upon information I discovered
online.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Petitioner states that “I was unaware that
there was another more appropriate channel to file my claims until I retained
counsel,” and that “[a]fter retaining my current counsel, we filed an
application and claim…against the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department…”
(Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 18-19; see also Suppl. Sullivan Decl., ¶ 21,
“[a]fter retaining my current counsel, we filed the Application and a claim…on
or around November 27, 2020…” )
As to the requirement that the petition show “[t]he
information required by Section 910,” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd.
(b)(3)), Petitioner
asserts that “[t]he Late Claim Application included all of the information
required under Cal. Gov. Code § 910.” (Amended
Petition at p. 11:27-28.)
Government Code Section 910 provides that “[a] claim
shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on his or her behalf
and shall show all of the following:
 
(a) The name and post
office address of the claimant.
 
(b) The post office address to which the person presenting
the claim desires notices to be sent.
 
(c) The date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence
or transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted.
 
(d) A general description of the indebtedness, obligation,
injury, damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time of
presentation of the claim.
 
(e) The name or names of the public employee or employees
causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known.
 
(f) The amount claimed if it totals less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) as of the date of presentation of the claim, including the
estimated amount of any prospective injury, damage, or loss, insofar as it may
be known at the time of the presentation of the claim, together with the basis
of computation of the amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), no dollar amount shall be included in the claim.
However, it shall indicate whether the claim would be a limited civil case.”

Here, Petitioner’s “Application to Present a Late Claim” document
attaches as Exhibit “A” a document titled “Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department Claim for Damages to Person or Property.” (Amended Petition, Ex. A,
p. 2, Ex. A.) These documents discuss the information required by Government Code Section 910. In addition, the County
does not appear to dispute that the petition shows “the
information required by Section 910.” (Gov. Code, § 946.6,
subd. (b)(3).) 
As set forth above, Government Code section 946.6, subdivision
(c)(1) provides that “[t]he court shall relieve the petitioner from the
requirements of Section 945.4 if the
court finds that the application to the board under Section 911.4 was made within a reasonable time
not to exceed that specified in subdivision (b) of Section
911.4 and was denied or deemed denied pursuant to Section 911.6 and that one or more of the
following is applicable: (1) The failure to present the claim was through
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect unless the public entity
establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the
court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of Section
945.4…” 
Pursuant
to Government Code section 911.4, subdivision (a), “[w]hen a claim that is required
by Section 911.2 to be presented not later than
six months after the accrual of the cause of action is not presented within
that time, a written application may be made to the public entity for leave to
present that claim.” Pursuant to Government Code
section 911.4, subdivision (b), “[t]he
application shall be presented to the public entity as provided in Article 2
(commencing with Section 915) within a
reasonable time not to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action
and shall state the reason for the delay in presenting the claim. The
proposed claim shall be attached to the application.” In addition, “[t]he board shall grant or deny the [application to present a late
claim] within 45 days after it is presented to the board,” or “[i]f the board
fails or refuses to act on an application within the time prescribed by this
section, the application shall be deemed to have been denied on the 45th day.”
(Gov. Code, § 911.6, subds. (a), (c).) 
            Petitioner
asserts that “[h]ere, the Late Claim Application was presented to the public
entity, the County, on or around November 30, 2020…It is undisputed, or at
least it should be, that November 30, 2020, is/was within one (1) year of the
accrual of the cause of action, which at its earliest was December 3, 2019…”
(Amended Petition at p. 8:9-13.) As discussed above, Petitioner states that
“[o]n or around December 3, 2019, [she] was attacked by [her] estranged
husband…” (Sullivan Decl., ¶ 5, emphasis added.) As to the November 30, 2020
date, the “Application to Present a Late Claim” attached as Exhibit “A” to the
Amended Petition is dated November 27, 2020, but the February 3, 2021 letter
attached as Exhibit “D” to the Amended Petition states, “[n]otice is hereby
given that the claim you presented to the County of Los Angeles, Board of
Supervisors on November 30, 2020, was rejected by operation of law on January
27, 2021. No further action will be taken on this matter.” (Emphasis added.)
            In the opposition, the County
asserts that Petitioner’s claim accrued on April 14, 2020. As discussed,
Petitioner states in her declaration that on April 14, 2020, she received an
email from Detective Miguel Jimenez-Ramirez, who “advised that video footage
from the surveillance cameras at the courthouse…had been erased on or around
January 18, 2020…” (Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) The County asserts that “[h]ere,
the statute requires that Petitioner first asks the Board of Supervisors to
accept a late claim by April 14, 2021. Petitioner Sullivan has not done that.”
(Opp’n at p. 7:5-6.) But as discussed, Petitioner attaches as Exhibit “A” to
the Amended Petition a document titled “Application to Present a Late Claim”
dated November 27, 2020. 
The County also asserts that “[t]he Petition of Nicole Sullivan is
notably devoid of any justification for the late Petition. She provides no
evidence compelling relief to meet her burden of proof.” (Opp’n at p. 8:8-10.) 
The County cites to Munoz v. State of California (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1767, 1783, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “a petitioner has
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the necessary elements
for relief…A superior court may properly deny relief under Government Code section 946.6 where there is simply
no competent evidence before the trial court upon which it could exercise its
discretion…” The County argues that “[h]ere,
it is clear that the Court cannot make the evidentiary and legal findings
contemplated by the statute due to the absence of an application to present a
late claim, and the fact that the document that she attempts to characterize as
that application is in fact merely the original claim presented on December 1,
2020.” (Opp’n at p. 8:18-21.) 
But as discussed, Petitioner indicates that she presented an
“Application and a claim…on or around November 27, 2020…” (Suppl. Sullivan
Decl., ¶ 21). Exhibit “A” attached to the Amended Petition is titled
“Application to Present a Late Claim.” The County asserts in the opposition
that “[o]n November 30, 2020, Petitioner presented a civil claim to the Board
of Supervisors for the first time. Petition, Ex. A. She mischaracterizes this
Government Claim as an ‘Application to File a Late Claim,’ however this is facially
untrue…Her initial Government Claim does not cite Government
Code section 911.4 regarding Applications for Late Claims, nor does it
reference the prior public complaints, nor does it comply with section 911.4 by explaining the reason for the delay
in filing.” (Opp’n at p. 5:3-8.) 
But Exhibit “A” to the Amended Petition referenced by the County
states, inter alia, that “[h]ere, Ms. Sullivan first attempted to file a
‘claim’ against the LASD on April 18, 2020, which was four (4) days after Ms.
Sullivan discovered that the LASD inexcusably failed to have a copy of the
Recordings. Ms. Sullivan, who is not a licensed attorney, and who was not
represented by counsel at the time, filed a claim with the Office of Inspector
General for the County of Los Angeles (‘OIG’) on April 18, 2020, by filing an
electronic claim. A true and correct copy of the claim that Ms. Sullivan filed
with the OIG has been attached hereto as Exhibit ‘B’. Ms. Sullivan was under
the belief and impression that this ‘claim’ was all she needed to file and that
her OIG claim would be forwarded to the LASD for review.” (Amended Petition,
Ex. A, p. 3.) The “Application to Present a Late Claim” further states that
“[w]hile Ms. Sullivan arguably may have filed a timely claim, in an effort to
ensure that Ms. Sullivan does not and has not waived any rights, claims or
remedies available to her, she has now retained counsel and she has filed this
Application to present a late claim based upon her mistake in filing her
initial claim with the OIG instead of the LASD.” (Ibid.)
Petitioner further states that “[t]his Application is timely as it has been
submitted within one year after the accrual of the cause of action, the
December 3, 2019 assault at the Courthouse. See Cal.
Gov. Code § 911.4(b).” (Ibid.,
underline added.)  
The Court finds that Petitioner has demonstrated that “[t]he failure to present the claim was through mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect…” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (c)(1).) As discussed,
Petitioner states that on April 14, 2020, she received an email
from
Detective
Jimenez-Ramirez, who advised that video footage from the surveillance cameras
at the courthouse had been erased on or around January 18, 2020. (Sullivan
Decl., ¶ 11.) Petitioner states that she then “filed [her] claim electronically
through the Office of Inspector General’s (the ‘OIG’) filing portal on April
18, 2020.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶ 13.) 
Petitioner states in her declaration that “I never received any
written response after filing my complaint in the OIG’s filing portal, which I
believed was the most appropriate place to file my claims against the South
LASD and its officers…I am not an attorney and I have no legal training
whatsoever and my belief that the OIG’s filing portal was the proper place to
file my grievances against the South LASD and its officers was based upon
information I discovered online.” (Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Petitioner states
that “I was unaware that there was another more appropriate channel to file my
claims until I retained counsel,” and that “[a]fter retaining my current
counsel, we filed an application and claim…against the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department…” (Sullivan Decl., ¶¶ 18-19.) The Court notes that in Munoz v. State
of California, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at page 1778, the Court of Appeal noted that “Government Code section 946.6 is a remedial statute intended to provide relief from
technical rules which otherwise provide a trap for the unwary. The remedial policy underlying the statute is that wherever
possible cases should be heard on their merits. Thus, a denial of
such relief by the trial court is examined more rigorously than where relief is
granted and any doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the
application.” (Emphasis in original.) 
Lastly, the County asserts in the opposition that it is “prejudiced by
the late claim…” (Opp’n at p. 8:22.)
 The Court notes that Petitioner
argues in the Amended Petition that “[t]he deletion and the unavailability of
the video footage from the Courthouse is and was in direct violation of Cal. Gov. Code §§ 26202.6 and 34090.6. Furthermore,
the deletion of the video footage has denied the Petitioner of her
constitutional right to court access since the District Attorney’s Office no
longer has the evidence it needs to effect various state court remedies.”
(Amended Petition at pp. 4:26-5:2.) The County asserts that it “is prejudiced
because the bases for the suit are alleged to be the violation of Government
Codes 34090.6 and 26202.6--Government Code section
34090.6 does not apply to the County and 26202.6 pertains to the retention
of documents by the County itself. These alleged violations resulted in the
District Attorney’s declination of charges against her husband. That is not a
legally-cognizable injury to Petitioner because the prosecutor exercises his or
her independent judgment about whether to file charges.” (Opp’n at p.
8:26-9:3.) The County cites to Dix v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 442,
451, where the California
Supreme Court noted that “[t]he prosecutor
ordinarily has sole discretion to determine whom to charge, what charges to
file and pursue, and what punishment to seek. No private citizen, however
personally aggrieved, may institute criminal proceedings independently, and the
prosecutor’s own discretion is not subject to judicial control at the behest of
persons other than the accused.” (Internal
citations omitted.) 
In the reply, Petitioner asserts that “this Court’s granting or
denying of the Amended Petition is not to be based upon whether this Court
finds the Petitioner’s allegations viable. See Gov.
Code § 946.6.” (Reply at p. 11:11-13.) Indeed, the County does not appear to cite any legal authority
demonstrating that the purported insufficiency of Petitioner’s claims
constitutes “prejudice” to the County for purposes of Government
Code section 946.6. The County could presumably test the legal
sufficiency of any complaint by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings, or other appropriate proceedings. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Petitioner has
demonstrated grounds for “an order
relieving the petitioner from Section 945.4.” (Gov. Code, §
946.6, subd. (a).) 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants Petitioner’s “[Amended] Petition for Order From [sic] Relief
From Claim Statute.” The Court thus “relieve[s]
the petitioner from the requirements of Section
945.4…” (Gov. Code,
§ 946.6, subd. (c).) 
Petitioner is ordered
to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED: 
December 1, 2023  
                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


