 Case Number:  22STCV29020    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY AND CONTINUE TRIAL;
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
Hearing Date: 5/9/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29020 JAMES KIM vs
CALIFORNIA COMMERCE CLUB, INC 
Moving Party: Defendant California
Commerce Club and
Plaintiff, respectively  
Responding Party: Plaintiff and Defendant California
Commerce Club,
respectively
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY AND
CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED; MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION IS GRANTED IN PART.
 
MOTION TO
REOPEN DISCOVERY AND CONTINUE
 
Legal Standard 
 
Except as otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(a).)¿ “[A] continuance or postponement of
the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a
motion to reopen discovery is filed and granted pursuant to CCP section
2024.050.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v.
Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)¿ CCP section 2024.050 provides
that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer
to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has
been set.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)¿ 
 
“The purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite
and facilitate trial preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the
parties could tie up each other and the trial court in discovery and discovery
disputes right up to the eve of trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be
effective the cutoff date must be firm or some litigants will manipulate the
proceedings to avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior Court¿(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.)¿ The reopening of discovery is a
matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a),
(b).)¿ In exercising that discretion, the trial court considers “any
matter relevant to the leave requested,” including: 
 
(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
 
(2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿¿ 
¿ 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party. 
 
(4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).) 
 
A motion to reopen discovery pursuant to CCP section 2024.050 must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith
effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Background
 
On September 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
present complaint. On September 22, 2022, Defendant filed its answer. The
current discovery cutoff date was set for February 4, 2024, following the
originally scheduled trial date of March 5, 2024. The parties filed a
stipulation to continue the trial date to July 9, 2024, but the discovery
period remained closed. Defendant now moves the court to continue trial and reopen
discovery because Plaintiff, for the first time, is alleging brain damage and
cognitive difficulties, along with damages including lost wages connected to
these cognitive issues. Plaintiff filed an opposition arguing that Defendant
knew of the brain damage for a significant period but failed to act on it.
Analysis
The Court reviewed Plaintiff’s discovery
responses and noted that the supplemental responses dated March 4, 2024,
included new claims of head tremors, cognitive difficulty, anxiety, insomnia,
and lost income due to cognitive injuries. They were not alleged in prior
discovery responses. Accordingly, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument
persuasive that Defendant had notice of these injuries as early as January
2024, or earlier. Plaintiff contends that Defendant was made aware of these
conditions through the designation of a neurological expert. However, such a
designation does not specify the conditions being testified to, and therefore
does not notify Defendant of the new alleged conditions. Additionally,
Plaintiff’s initial discovery responses reported pain and numbness in various
body parts, which makes the designation of a neurological expert unsurprising.
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s counsel’s mention of brain damage in the memorandum of
a motion does not constitute notice, as these are not statements made under
oath by Plaintiff himself regarding the conditions alleged. Thus, the Court finds
that Defendant was not tardy in seeking to reopen discovery and continue trial.
In consideration of the age of the case, which
is less than two years old, and Defendant's request for a 90-day continuance to
conduct limited discovery, along with Plaintiff's non-opposition to continuing
the trial (although Plaintiff opposes reopening discovery), the Court finds
Defendant's request to reopen discovery and continue the trial to be
reasonable. Therefore, Defendant’s motion to continue and reopen discovery is
hereby GRANTED.
 
The new trial date is set for September ____, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and all pretrial dates are continued in
accordance with the new trial date.¿ The Final Status Conference is continued to _____, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.¿ 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
On March 15,
2024, the court partially granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition
of the Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) and ordered the parties to further meet
and confer. As a result, Plaintiff was able to conduct most of the PMK
depositions, but two issues remain unresolved:
1.  Due to
Defendant’s delayed responses to Demands 8 and 9, Plaintiff has been unable to
question Defendant’s PMK about these documents. The Court ORDERS further
deposition on PMK categories 4, 17, 19-22, and 35, as to Defendant’s document
production in response to Demands 8 and 9 within 30 days of today.
2.  Defendant’s objection
to the production of the incident report. The Court will hear argument on this
issue.  
 
SANCTIONS
 
The Court will
hear argument re sanctions.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 