  Case Number:  19STCV35095    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Hearing
Date: 5/9/24 
CASE
NO./NAME: 19STCV35095 ANNMARIE QUEZON vs FOREVER 21 INC.
Moving
Party: Defendant 1431 Promenade
Responding
Party: Plaintiff 
Notice:
Sufficient 
Ruling:
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO NEGLIGENCE CAUSE OF ACTION IS DENIED; SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION AS TO PREMISES LAIBILITY CAUSE OF ACTION IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On
October 1, 2019, Plaintiff filed a trip and fall complaint against Defendants
Forever 21 and 1431 Promenade LLC, alleging causes of action for negligence and
premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that the accident occurred on April 7,
2018, at the Forever 21 store located at 1431 3rd Street Promenade. Forever 21
had leased the property from 1431 Promenade LLC since 2006 and continued to do
so until after Plaintiff’s fall. Plaintiff claims there was a liquid substance
on the stairs at the premises, and that the absence of a handrail on the stairs
caused her to fall. Defendant 1431 Promenade moves for summary judgment and
summary adjudication on the basis that Forever 21 was responsible for the
design, installation, inspection, maintenance, and repair of the subject
property at the time of the incident, and therefore, Defendant 1431 Promenade
owed no duty to Plaintiff.
Evidentiary Ruling
 
The Parties did not make any objections to
evidence that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).) The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). "When the motion for summary
judgment is supported by affidavits sufficient to sustain the motion,…the
burden of showing that triable issues exist shifts to the party opposing the
motion. [Citation.] A party cannot avoid summary judgment based on mere
speculation and conjecture…but instead must produce admissible evidence raising
a triable issue of fact. (Crouse v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1524.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.) 
 
Analysis
1.  Negligence
Cause of Action
Defendant's
argument against Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action is based on two key
pieces of evidence: the Declaration of Renee Mizrahi, PMQ for Defendant, and
the lease agreement between Forever 21 and Defendant. Defendant refers to
Section 9 of the lease agreement, which states, " Tenant shall, at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, keep the Premises and every part thereof, and
the entryway into the Premises, including all signs in and about the Premises
(however, Tenant is not required to maintain any entryway outside of its lease
line), in good condition and repair." (Def’s Ex. 2.) This purportedly
shows that Forever 21 was solely responsible for the repair, cleaning, and
maintenance of the property.
Defendant
then refers to the declaration of Mizrahi, a manager and owner of the company
since 2016, stating:
¶
15. FOREVER 21, INC. was responsible for the construction of the SUBJECT
PREMISES, including the design and installation of the stairs where Plaintiff’s
trip and fall occurred.
¶
16. 1431 PROMENADE, LLC did not design, install, inspect, maintain, clean, or
repair the subject stairs in the SUBJECT PREMISES where Plaintiff’s incident
occurred.
¶
17. The stairs where Plaintiff’s slip and fall occurred were designed,
installed, inspected, maintained, repaired, and cleaned by FOREVER 21, INC.
¶
18. Plaintiff's injury occurred in an area exclusively occupied by FOREVER 21,
INC., which was under FOREVER 21, INC.’s supervision and control.
¶
19. Under the terms of the lease agreement, FOREVER 21, INC. was responsible
for the upkeep, repairs, cleaning, and maintenance of the SUBJECT PREMISES,
including the stairs.
¶
20. 1431 PROMENADE, LLC was not responsible for the upkeep, repairs, cleaning,
and maintenance of the stairs where Plaintiff’s trip and fall occurred.
The
contract and Mizrahi’s declaration are sufficient to meet Defendant’s burden
regarding the liquid substance on the stairs, as they demonstrate that Forever
21 and not Defendant 1431 Promenade was responsible for the maintenance and
cleaning of the property. However, these two pieces of evidence alone are
insufficient to address Plaintiff's allegation that the absence of a handrail contributed
to the fall, as stated in the complaint. 
As
to the absence of any handrail, Section 8 of the lease is on point; it states
that “Tenant shall not make or permit to be made any alterations, additions or
improvements to or of the Premises or any part thereof, including Tenant's Work
(collectively sometimes referred to in this Lease as "Tenants
Improvements"), without first obtaining the written consent and approval
of Landlord (including Landlord’s architect’s and engineer’s approval of all
plans)” (Def’s Exhibit 2). Section 8.1.3 of the lease specifies that "
Tenant shall have the right to make interior cosmetic non-structural,
non-mechanical alterations such as, but not limited to, changing floor
covering, wall coverings, painting and addition and relocation of trade
fixtures consistent with Tenant’s “look” without first obtaining the Landlord’s
prior consent.” (Id.) For any alterations or improvements to existing
stairs, or the installation of new stairs, Forever 21 was required to obtain
written consent and approval from the landlord, including approval from its
architects and engineers. (Def’s Exhibit 2.)
As
to the other critical piece of evidence, Mizrahi declares that Forever 21 was
responsible for the design and installation of the stairs. (Mizrahi Decl. ¶
15-16.) However, the court is uncertain whether Mizrahi has laid a proper
foundation for such a statement, as she became the company manager in 2016,
while the lease was entered into in 2006. 
Significantly,
nothing in Mizrahi’s declaration contradicts the lease. Under the lease, the
landlord is not responsible for the design or installation of the stairs.
Mizrahi's declaration that Forever 21 designed and installed the stairs aligns
with these requirements. What the lease does require is for Forever 21 to seek Defendant’s
approval and consent for the stairs' design and installation. (Section 8 of
Def’s Ex. 2). Mizrahi’s declaration fails to mention whether Defendant approved
or consented to the design of the stairs. The declaration states that Defendant
did not design, install, inspect, maintain, clean or repair the stairs and the
language is absent on the issue of approval and consent.[1] Under
section 8 of lease, Defendant either approved a potentially dangerous design or
failed to scrutinize the design pursuant to the lease, either of which could
render Defendant liable for negligence. One possible defense is to demonstrate
that the stairs are not dangerous; however, Defendant failed to show this in
its separate statement. Based on the limited evidence provided by Defendant, it
is conceivable that a jury could find Defendant liable for negligence in
approving the potentially dangerous stairs. 
Thus,
Defendant failed to meet its initial burden and Defendant’s summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action is DENIED.
2.  Premises
Liability Cause of Action 
The
elements of premises liability are: 1) Defendant owned, leased, occupied, or
controlled the property; 2) Defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance
of the property; 3) Plaintiff was harmed; and 4) Defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. (CACI No. 1000. Premises
Liability - Essential Factual Elements).
Defendant’s
evidence as analyzed in the Negligence Section above has met its initial burden
in showing that Forever 21, and not 1431 Promenade, was responsible for the use
and maintenance of the property. Plaintiff's evidence, primarily centered on
the issue of the missing rail, failed to present any evidence that raises a
triable issue of fact that Promenade was maintaining the property on the date
of the incident. Plaintiff's argument that, according to the lease, Defendant
should have reviewed and ensured the safety of the stairway's design during the
installation pertains to Plaintiff’s negligence claim rather than the ongoing
maintenance of the property required for a premises liability cause of action.
Thus,
by failing to introduce evidence that raises a triable issue of fact, Defendant’s
summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s premises liability cause of action is
GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave. 


