 Case Number:  22STCV24138    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 5/9/24
CASE NO./NAME: 2STCV24138 CHIQUITA RANDLE, et
al. vs VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT
Moving Party: Defendants RAMESH BHAGAT, HANSA BHAGAT, ANKUR PATEL, KRINA
VINODBHAI BHAGAT, AKASH PATEL, JIGNESH PATEL, TOWN MOTEL, L.P., a California
Limited Partnership; BHAGAT INVESTMENTS CENTURY, LLC, a California Limited
Liability Company; a California general partnership
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 5/9/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 2STCV24138 CHIQUITA RANDLE, et al. vs VINODBHAI C.
BHAGAT
Moving Party: Vinodbhai Bhagat
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE IS
DENIED
 
 
BHAGAT CORPORATE DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
Background
On July 26, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the present
complaint alleging that Defendant Vinodhai Bhagat was drinking and driving,
subsequently crashing into and fatally injuring the decedent. Plaintiffs
further allege that Vinodhai was driving within the scope of employment of the
Bhagat Corporate Defendants. Defendants’ previously moved to strike punitive
damages and attorneys' fees; that motion was granted with leave to amend. Plaintiffs
amended their complaint (Plaintiffs filed their third amended complaint (“TAC”).)
The Bhagat Corporate Defendants move the Court to strike the portions of the
TAC relating to punitive damages and attorneys' fees, specifically:
1.  Paragraph
42 of the TAC which states “The conduct of Defendants described herein was done
and is being done with willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety
of the public, including the decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, and with reckless
disregard for decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE’s health and safety and with the intent
to vex, injure decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, such as to constitute oppression,
fraud, or malice under Civ. Code § 3294. Thus, an award of punitive damages is
warranted in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.” 
2.  Paragraph
57 of the TAC which states “The conduct of Defendants described herein was done
and is being done with willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety
of the public, including the decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, and with reckless
disregard for decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE’s health and safety and with the intent
to vex, injure decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, such as to constitute oppression,
fraud, or malice under Civ. Code § 3294. Thus, an award of punitive damages is
warranted in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.” 
3.  Paragraph
68 of the TAC which states “The conduct of Defendants described herein was done
and is being done with willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety
of the public, including the decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, and with reckless
disregard for decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE’s health and safety and with the intent
to vex, injure decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE, such as to constitute oppression,
fraud, or malice under Civ. Code § 3294. Thus, an award of punitive damages is
warranted in an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of
Defendants.”
4.  Paragraph
5 of the prayer for relief which states “punitive damages, according to proof”.

5. 
Paragraph 6 of the prayer for relief
which states “attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1021.4
according to proof”
Plaintiffs filed an opposition asserting that the
TAC contains sufficient allegations to support a claim for punitive damages
against the Corporate Defendants in that the corporations’ managing agents
encouraged and ratified Vinobhai’s drunk driving and Vinobhai himself is a
managing agent of the corporations. Additionally, Plaintiffs contend that
attorney fees may be sought against the Bhagat Corporate Defendants for
Vinobhai’s felony under a theory of vicarious liability.
Analysis
The portions of the TAC containing allegations
relating to punitive damages against the Bhagat corporate defendants are as
follows:
TAC ¶ 26: VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT became grossly
intoxicated at his place of work while in the course and scope of his duties
for the BHAGAT/PATEL ENTERPRISE with the knowledge, ratification, consent, and
encouragement of the BHAGAT/PATEL ENTERPRISE, as was the custom and practice of
the company culture fostered by the BHAGAT/PATEL ENTERPRISE
TAC ¶ 27: Bhagat defendants authorized, ratified,
and encouraged Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT to become grossly intoxicated at
work and to operate the aforementioned vehicle while grossly intoxicated and
under the influence of alcohol despite knowing that Defendant VINODBHAI C.
BHAGAT was unfit for the specific tasks to be performed during the course of
his employment and/or agency, namely the general safe operation of the Vehicle.
1.  Punitive
Damage Against Corporation
California Code, Civil
Code § 3294(b), which governs punitive damages against corporations, provides:
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for
which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
Upon examining the TAC,
particularly paragraphs 26 and 27, the Court finds that the Plaintiffs have
failed to allege sufficient facts to hold the Corporate Defendants liable for
punitive damages. The Plaintiffs have not made specific nor sufficiently particularized
allegations detailing the actions of the Corporate Defendants that would
justify punitive damages. There are no allegations demonstrating how the
defendants authorized, ratified, or encouraged Defendant Vinodbhai to consume
alcohol at work and drive. More critically, there are no allegations that
specify how the defendants could have known that Defendant Vinodbhai would not
only drink and drive but also engage in further conduct justifying punitive
damages.
Plaintiffs do not
specify how Vinodbhai is a managing agent of the corporations. The allegation
that V. Bhagat and the Employer Defendants were partners, acted as agents for
one another, and jointly owned, operated, and managed the Bhagat/Patel
Enterprise—a family business involved in managing motels, hotels, and other
real estate in the Southern California area—does not sufficiently detail
Vinodbhai’s managerial role, especially considering the Plaintiffs’ previous
contention describing him as a handyman for the company. Even if Vinodbhai is
considered a managing agent, he must have had advance knowledge of previous
conduct that would support punitive damages. This means that Vinodbhai would
need a history not just of drunk driving but of drunk driving under aggravating
circumstances sufficient to justify punitive damages. However, this has not
been pled in the complaint. 
Thus, Defendants’
motion to strike punitive damage is GRANTED without leave to amend. However, if
during the course of discovery Plaintiffs discover, for instance, that Vinodbhai
was indeed a managing agent of the corporations, and he did have a history of
drunk driving with aggravating circumstances, the Court would consider Plaintiffs’
motion to amend.
2.  Attorney’s
Fee under Code of Civil Procedure § 1021.4
The plain language of
the statute is clear: "court may, upon motion, award reasonable attorney's
fees to a prevailing plaintiff against the defendant who has been convicted
of the felony." Plaintiffs do not argue that the corporate defendants
have been convicted of a felony but argue they are vicariously liable for
attorney’s fees through Vinodbhai’s felony charges. However, Plaintiffs have
not cited any case law demonstrating that Code of Civil Procedure § 1021.4
allows for the recovery of attorney’s fees under a theory of vicarious
liability. The case heavily relied upon by Plaintiffs, Wood v. McGovern
(1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 772, discusses the legislative intent behind Code of
Civil Procedure § 1021.4 but does not address respondeat superior or vicarious
liability claims.  
Defendants’ motion to
strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney’s fees is GRANTED without leave to
amend.
 
 
 
DEFENDANT VINODBHAI BHAGAT’S MOTION TO
STRIKE
Defendant Vinodbhai
seeks to strike punitive damage from the TAC, specifically:
3.  Paragraph
2, page 2, line 17 “…punitive or exemplary damages...” 
4.  Paragraph
42, page 9, lines 28 “…Thus, an award of punitive damages is warranted in an
amount…” 
5.  Paragraph
57, page 12, lines 10-11 “…Thus, an award of punitive damages is warranted in
an amount appropriate to punish and make an example of Defendants.” 
6.  Paragraph
68, page 14 lines 6-7 “…Thus, an award of punitive damages is warranted in an
amount appropriate to punish and make an example of Defendants.” 
7.  Page
14, line 16, Prayer for Relief, Item 5: “Punitive Damages, according to
proof.”.
As for Vinodbhai’s
punitive damages, Plaintiffs allege with specificity the following in the TAC :

TAC ¶ 29: He operated the vehicle at a reckless
speed far in excess of the posted speed limit driving southbound on Western
Avenue. As decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE attempted to run out of the way, Defendant
VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT accelerated and swerved his vehicle directly into decedent.
Surveillance footage demonstrates that Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT not only
could have easily avoided striking decedent, but that Defendant VINODBHAI C.
BHAGAT seemingly intentionally struck him.
TAC ¶ 30: Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT was
operating the aforementioned vehicle on a straight roadway with multiple lanes
of traffic. In fact, the vehicle Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT was operating
was the only vehicle on the subject roadway. No reasonable person of sound mind
would have failed to avoid a pedestrian in the roadway. Defendant VINODBHAI C.
BHAGAT was driving erratically on a straight roadway with multiple lanes of
traffic and clear visibility.
TAC ¶ 44 -45: Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT, were
immediately on notice of the serious and potentially fatal nature of Decedent’s
injuries, following the impact, in an attempt to avoid responsibility,
Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT knowingly and intentionally continued to drive
knowing decedent HUEY PAUL RANDLE was trapped under his vehicle. Defendant
VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT dragged Decedent roughly 100 feet before fleeing the scene
and speeding away, intentionally leaving him to die in the middle of the
street. This careless act of Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT further compounded
Decedent’s pain and suffering in the last moments of his life. 
45. Hours after the INCIDENT, Defendant VINODBHAI C.
BHAGAT was tracked down by local authorities, where he initially lied about
being involved in the collision but later admitted to knowingly hitting a
pedestrian and fleeing the scene.
TAC ¶ 49: Defendant VINODBHAI C. BHAGAT, failure to
promptly and adequately render aid to HUEY PAUL RANDLE, prevented him from
accessing the medical care he needed and ultimately resulted in his untimely
death.
The Court finds that
the Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient aggravating circumstances in addition to
drunk driving. Specifically, the allegation that Vinodbhai continued driving
after striking the decedent, knowing that the decedent was trapped under the vehicle
and subsequently dragged approximately 100 feet, along with other specific
allegations, sufficiently demonstrates malice and despicable conduct. 
Thus, Defendant
Vinodbhai Bhagat’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of the email must
include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the
identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should assume that others may
appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 