 Case Number:  22STCV09109    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY 
Hearing Date: 5/9/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV09109 KOURTNIE HEATHER
GOOD vs STATE CENTER LOCATING, INC
Moving Party: Defendant STATE CENTER LOCATING
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
Except as otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a
matter of right to complete discovery
proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020(a).)  “[A] continuance or postponement of the trial date does not
operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a motion to reopen discovery
is filed and granted pursuant to CCP section 2024.050.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products,
Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)  CCP section 2024.050 provides that
“[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or
to reopen discovery
after a new trial date has been set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050(a).) 
 
“The purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite and facilitate trial
preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the parties could tie up each other and
the trial court in discovery
and discovery disputes right up to the eve of trial or
beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be effective the cutoff date must be firm or some
litigants will manipulate the proceedings to avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior
Court¿(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1289,
1295.) 
The reopening of discovery
is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)¿ In exercising that discretion,
the trial court considers “any
matter relevant to the leave requested,” including:
 
(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2)
The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ 
 
(3)
Any likelihood that permitting the discovery
or hearing the discovery
motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4)
The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the
date presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).)
 
A motion to reopen discovery pursuant to CCP section 2024.050 must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort
at informal resolution.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)
 
Discussion
On March 15, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present motor accident case. On July 21, 2022, Defendant
Stake Center filed an answer. The current discovery cutoff date is April 26,
2024, following the prior May 27, 2024 trial date. Plaintiff now moves the
court to reopen discovery to align with the current July 29, 2024, trial date
to conduct further discovery, including depositions and a neuropsychological
examination. Plaintiff opposes the reopening of the fact discovery cut off but
does not object to reopening expert discovery.
Defendant filed its
answer in July 2022, less than two years ago, and is seeking to reopen
discovery for several months to follow the current trial date of July 29, 2024.
Given the age of the case, a request to further conduct discovery for several
additional months is reasonable and prejudice would be minimal. Moreover,
Plaintiff has not lacked diligence in pursuing discovery. Defendant took
Plaintiff’s deposition approximately one year after filing its answer and
scheduled the neuropsychological examination in January 2024, for an
examination in February 2024, two months before the discovery cutoff. However,
disagreements arose concerning how raw testing data should be handled and
Defendant filed a motion to compel with a hearing date set after the discovery
cutoff. Although Defendant could have noticed the examination earlier, waiting
until Plaintiff’s deposition for clarity on the nature of the injuries is
understandable. Since Plaintiff alleges continuous injuries, Defendant should
be given the opportunity to have its motion heard for a medical examination
regarding the injuries alleged.
Thus, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion, and all trial-related deadlines are to follow the current
trial date of July 29, 2024.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 