 Case Number:  22STCV19288    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
Hearing Date: 5/9/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV19288 MARIA ANGELICA
AMARAL, et al. vs DOUGLAS JAMES WESTHOFF
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.

Legal Standard
 
When a party moves to amend a pleading, “courts generally should
permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican v. Regents of University of
California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In ruling on this type of
motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern. (Hirsa v. Superior
Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of prejudice the court is to be
concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope with a
potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been revealed
during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should look for delays in
the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive increase in the costs of
preparation and other similar circumstances that create prejudice to another
party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.) 
 
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must also be supported by a
declaration which specifies the following: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)¿ 

Discussion
On June 13, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. Plaintiff contends that the date of the
incident was accidentally stated as November 11, 2022 in the complaint, but the
correct date of the incident is confirmed to be July 6, 2020. Plaintiff now
moves the Court for leave to amend to correct this mistake. No opposition has
been filed.
Plaintiff has complied
with all the requirements of Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff included a copy of the
proposed amendment, specified the effect of the amendment, and noted that
during Plaintiff’s recent deposition and upon thorough review of all the
documents, Plaintiff discovered the oversight in the complaint. No opposition
was filed claiming prejudice and prejudice does not seem likely. Thus,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.