  Case Number:  23CMCV01442    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



QIANA BEVERLY,
                    Plaintiffs, 
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCV01442
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  January 22, 2025
TIME:
  9:00 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 09/25/2023
TRIAL:
  1/29/2025
 



 
The court rules on plaintiff’s
motions in limine as follows.  
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 1 seeking order excluding evidence and argument of the
parties’ settlement discussions.
TENTATIVE RULING:  Granted, as
such matters are not relevant to any claim or defense and are potentially
prejudicial and, thus, should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.  To the extent Plaintiff seeks to bar
Defendant’s inquiries about whether Plaintiff made any or sufficient requests that
Defendant repurchase or replace the vehicle, or whether Defendant received any
requests for repurchase or replacement of the vehicle, the Court would be
inclined to prohibit any such questioning as irrelevant to the claims and
defenses before the Court. While Defendant’s responses to any requests
Plaintiff made may be relevant at trial, questions seeking to elicit testimony
that Plaintiff made no such requests or delayed in making them is not. This
order does not preclude Defendant from introducing evidence of any offer(s) to
repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 2 seeking order excluding evidence and argument that Defendant
proposed arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution process.
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTED. Defendant contends that it offers
a third-party arbitration program and Plaintiff never contacted them or
participated in the program. Evidence to that effect would incorrectly imply
that Plaintiff had an obligation to contact Defendant’s third-party arbitration
program and/or participate in it. Thus, whether Defendant offered the program
to Plaintiff should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.  It is also not relevant as to whether Defendant
offered to repair or replace Plaintiff’s vehicle, and as such should be
excluded.  The Court rejects Defendant’s
argument that its arbitration program is relevant to the question of whether
its failure to replace or repurchase the vehicle was willful.  The existence of this program prior to
Defendant’s failure has no probative value for the question of willfulness.  The Court’s ruling means, therefore, that
neither side may refer to any arbitration program in arguing Defendant’s willfulness
or lack thereof. 
However,
it would be unfair for Plaintiff to offer evidence that Defendant failed to
maintain any arbitration program or did not refer Plaintiff to such a program,
without allowing Defendant to offer responsive evidence.  Plaintiff alleges in her Complaint:
“29.
Defendant GM does not maintain a qualified third-party dispute resolution
process which substantially complies with Civil Code section 1793.22.
Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to a civil penalty of two times Plaintiff's
actual damages pursuant to Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (e).”
As a result, this order does not preclude defendant
from introducing evidence that it maintains a third-party arbitration program,
as well as evidence as to whether that program qualifies and/or substantially complies
with Civil Code section 1793.22.  
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 3 seeking order excluding evidence and argument
regarding Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and litigation costs.
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTED as Defendant does not oppose the
motion, and such matters are not relevant to any claim or defense and are
potentially prejudicial and, thus, should be excluded under Evidence Code §
352.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 4 seeking order excluding evidence and argument
regarding Plaintiff’s application for financing and financial condition.
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTED as such matters are not relevant
to any claim or defense and are potentially prejudicial and, thus, should be
excluded under Evidence Code § 352.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 5 seeking order excluding evidence and argument
regarding any marketing or advertising by Plaintiff’s attorneys.    
          TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTED as
such matters are not relevant to any claim or defense and are potentially
prejudicial and, thus, should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 6 seeking order excluding evidence and argument that
Plaintiff was required to revoke acceptance of the subject vehicle within a
specific time period.
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANTED, as such matters are not relevant
to any claim or defense.  Through this
motion, Plaintiff raises the concern that Defendant will argue Plaintiff should
be denied some or all relief on his Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act claims
based on the contention that Plaintiff failed to give timely notice to the
seller of revocation of acceptance of the vehicle. Although the California
Uniform Commercial Code generally requires that a buyer give notice of
revocation of acceptance of goods within a reasonable time after their delivery
(Comm. Code §§ 2602(1); 2607(3)(a)), the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act,
which contains more stringent consumer protections, does not require rejection
or revocation of acceptance of a vehicle within a reasonable time or any time
at all. (Civ. Code § 1793.2(d); Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1301, 1310; Krotin v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc.
(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 294, 300.) As the Court of Appeal explained in Mexia,
the Commercial Code’s requirements that revocation be given within a reasonable
time after sale “do not apply to any action brought under the Song-Beverly Act.
. . . If the Legislature intended the duration provision to impose a deadline
for consumers to give notice of defects under the Song-Beverly Act, it could
easily have done so. It did not.” (Ibid., at pp. 1307, 1310.) 
In
opposition, Defendant urges application of the standards of the Commercial Code
and the limitations periods for warranty claims under that Code and argues that
it would be unfair not to impose some limitation on the time within which a
buyer must notify the seller and/or manufacturer of a substantial defect and
revoke the sales contract. There is no dispute, however, that a breach of the
implied warranty of merchantability could occur anytime within its duration
(Civ. Code § 1791.1(c)).  Defendant’s
contention boils down to an argument that any alleged defect must not only
occur within the warranty period, but also be discovered and reported within
that period or within an undefined “reasonable” period thereafter. 
If
adopted, Defendant’s construction of the statute would create a conflict with Mexia
v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc., supra, on which Plaintiffs rely. In that
case, the appellate court held that the duration provision of Civil Code §
1791.1(c) did not limit when a defect must be discovered for purposes of
the implied warranty, but instead, limited the period during which the implied
warranty existed: 
[T]he
plain language of the statute, particularly in light of the consumer protection
policies supporting the Song-Beverly Act, make clear that the statute merely
creates a limited, prospective duration for the implied warranty of
merchantability; it does not create a deadline for discovering latent
defects or for giving notice to the seller. 
(Id.
at 1301, bold emphasis added.) 
The
duration provision provides, in essence, that the duration of the implied
warranty of merchantability shall be the same as the duration of any reasonable
express warranty that accompanies the product, but in no event shorter than 60
days or longer than one year. (Civ. Code, § 1791.1, subd. (c).) There is
nothing that suggests a requirement that the purchaser discover and report to
the seller a latent defect within that time period. 
(Mexia,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1310, bold emphasis added.) 
The
implied warranty of merchantability may be breached by a latent defect
undiscoverable at the time of sale. . . . Indeed, “[u]ndisclosed latent defects
… are the very evil that the implied warranty of merchantability was designed
to remedy.” . . . In the case of a latent defect, a product is rendered
unmerchantable, and the warranty of merchantability is breached, by the
existence of the unseen defect, not by its subsequent discovery. 
(Id.
at 1304-1305, bold emphasis and underlining added.) 
“Thus,
although a defect may not be discovered for months or years after a
sale, merchantability is evaluated as if the defect were known.” (Id.
at 1305, bold emphasis added.) 
The
Song-Beverly Act does not include its own statute of limitations. . . .
California courts have held that the statute of limitations for an action for
breach of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act is governed by the same statute
that governs the statute of limitations for warranties arising under the
California Uniform Commercial Code: section 2725 of the California Uniform
Commercial Code. . . . Under this statute, “(1) An action for breach of any
contract for sale must be commenced within four years after the cause of
action has accrued. … [¶] (2) A cause of action accrues when the breach
occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party's lack of knowledge of the breach.
A breach of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made, except that where
a warranty explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and
discovery of the breach must await the time of such performance the cause
of action accrues when the breach is or should have been discovered.” (Cal. U.
Com. Code, § 2725, subds. (1), (2).) 
(Mexia,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1305-1306, bold emphasis and underlining
added). 
The
foregoing principles lead to the conclusion that if a latent defect exists at
any point during that 60-day to one-year period of Civil Code § 1791.1(c), as
long as a lawsuit is filed within the four-year statute of limitations period
(unless a valid reason exists to toll the limitations period)– which accrues when
the defect comes into existence—then the action for breach of implied
warranty is timely, even if the latent defect was discovered or reported to the
manufacturer after the 60-day to one-year implied warranty period. 
This
is consistent with Mexia, because in that case, the defect was deemed to
have existed at the time of sale, i.e., within the 60-day to one-year
period, and the plaintiff filed the lawsuit within the four-year statute of
limitations. (Mexia, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1300-1301.) Mexia
did not articulate or purport to apply a delayed discovery rule, because
resort to such a rule was unnecessary—the action was filed within four years of
the date of purchase. 
[T]he
statute of limitations for an action for breach of warranty under the
Song-Beverly Act is four years pursuant to section 2725 of the California
Uniform Commercial Code. . . . Under that statute, a cause of action for breach
of warranty accrues, at the earliest, upon tender of delivery. (Cal. U. Com.
Code, § 2725, subd. (2).) Thus, the earliest date the implied warranty of
merchantability regarding Mexia's boat could have accrued was the date Mexia
purchased it—April 12, 2003. n7 Because he filed this action three years seven
months after that date, he did so within the four-year limitations period.
Therefore, Mexia's action is not barred by a statute of limitations. 
(Mexia,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1306.) 
On
the other hand, if the defect does not come into existence until after the
60-day to one-year period expires, a cause of action does not accrue,
because the implied warranty has already ceased to exist. The date of discovery
of the defect would be irrelevant under those circumstances. 
The
word “duration” has a clear and readily understood meaning, viz., the period of
time during which something exists or lasts. . . . In the duration provision,
the “something” that has a period of existence is the implied warranty of
merchantability. (Civ. Code, § 1791.1, subd. (c).) According to its plain
language, the implied warranty exists for at least 60 days and at most for one
year after delivery of the product; after that time, the warranty ceases to
exist. To say that a warranty exists is to say that a cause of action
can arise for its breach. Defining the time period during which the implied
warranty exists, therefore, also defines the time period during which the
warranty can be breached. Thus, by giving the implied warranty a limited
prospective existence beyond the time of delivery, the Legislature created the
possibility that the implied warranty could be breached after delivery. 
(Mexia,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 1309, bold emphasis and underlining added.)
This also
means, however, that the period in which a defendant can be liable for breach
of an implied warranty under Song-Beverly is not open-ended. Rather, a claim
based on the discovery of a latent defect more than four years after the last
day of the implied warranty is time-barred, unless valid reasons exist to toll
the limitations period. Thus, Defendant’s unfairness argument is met by the
limitations periods directly applicable to such claims under Song-Beverly –
that the breach must have arisen during the warranty period and a lawsuit
asserted within four years after expiration of the warranty. Defendant provides
no basis for engrafting another limitations provision requiring a third
restriction on bringing such claims based on a reasonable time frame for the
customer’s repudiation of the sales contract.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 7 for an order establishing that statements by dealership
personnel are non-hearsay and admissible.
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  In general, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that statements by authorized agents of Defendant such as dealership
personnel should be considered party admissions, subject to presentation of evidence
as to the basis for Plaintiff’s contention that the declarants were authorized
agents at the time the statements were purportedly made. However, Plaintiff did
not identify in the motion any particular statement(s) sought to be offered, and
did not offer any admissible evidence establishing that the declarants are
authorized agents of Defendants.  Instead,
she merely states that Plaintiff will prove this foundational fact at
trial.  The Court therefore denies the
motion pursuant to Kelly v. New West Fed. Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
659, 670.    
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 8 for an order excluding evidence and argument as to
any statutory §998 offer to compromise.
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED.  See Code Civ. Proc. § 998(b)(2). 

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
DATED: January 22, 2025
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court