  Case Number:  21STCV10112    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical malpractice
action. Plaintiff Saundra Putizger (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was a patient
of Defendant Brian Lai, M.D. (“Dr. Lai”) beginning in or about March 02, 2020
for the purposes of treatment to alleviate her cervical pain. Plaintiff
presents that on March 05, 2020, at Antelope Valley Specialty Surgical Center,
LLC (“AVSSC”), Dr. Lai administered an epidural injection to Plaintiff which
resulted in severe and permanent injuries to her, including paralysis.
Plaintiff further alleges that (1) Dr. Lai was an employee or contractor
retained by Defendant Advanced Pain Medical Group, Inc. (“ADMG”); (2) Defendant
Shira Amor Bizaoui, CRNA (“Bizaoui”) acted as a California certified registered
nurse anesthetist in connection with the March 5, 2020 epidural injection to
Plaintiff; (3) Bizaoui was an employee or contractor retained by Dr. Lai, ADMG
and/or AVSSC to perform anesthesia services in connection with the March 5,
2020 epidural injection to Plaintiff. 
 
On March 15, 2021, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging one cause of action for Medical Negligence against
all defendants.
 
On April 22, 2021, Bizaoui filed
her Answer.
 
On May 20, 2021, Dr. Lai filed
his Answer.
 
On June 24, 2021, ADMG and AVSSC
filed their Answer.
 
On November 23, 2022, Bizaoui
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment in Department 31. 
 
On February 03, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
On February 03, 2023, Bizaoui
filed her Reply. 
 
On February 08, 2023, Judge Mori transferred
and reassigned to Depart A-14 in Michael D. Antonovich Antelope Valley
Courthouse.
 
On July 18, 2023, the Motion for
Summary Judgment was denied.
 
On November 14, 2023, Dr. Lai
filed this Motion for Protective Order Quashing Subpoena of Person Most
Qualified to Testify on Behalf of Paramount Investigative Services with Demand
for Production of Documents.
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition. 
 
On January 23, 2024, Dr. Lai
filed his Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Legal Standard – To require the production of any document
or tangible thing for inspection and copying of a nonparty deponent, the party
seeking discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); see also Sears, Roebuck & Co.
v. National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way
of subpoena]. A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) Personal
service is required on a non-party deponent, unless “the nonparty deponent
agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1346; see also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(c).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Except as modified in Chapter 6 Nonparty
Discovery, “the provisions of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1985) of Title
3 of Part 4 of this code, and of Article 4 (commencing with Section 1560) of
Chapter 2 of Division 11 of the Evidence Code, apply to a deposition subpoena.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.030.) Service of a deposition subpoena shall be
effected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent
a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and, where
personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of
deposition. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(a).) Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of
California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to
produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(c).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a notice of taking of deposition is also
served, that other notice may be set forth in a single document with the notice
required by this subdivision.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.6(e).)¿ 
¿¿ 
¿Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1(a) provides,
as follows:¿ “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1(a).)¿ 
 
A motion to quash a deposition subpoena or
deposition notice is used to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a subpoena
or notice that is procedurally or substantively defective. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§§ 1987.1, subd. (a), 2025.410, subd. (c).) Such a motion may be made by: (1)
any party to the action (2) the subpoenaed witness; (3) a person (party or
nonparty) whose consumer, governmental, or employment information or records
have been subpoenaed; or (4) the Court, on its own motion, after giving the parties
notice and the opportunity to be heard. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).) 
 
The Court has broad discretion to quash a
deposition subpoena upon good cause shown. (Flynn v. Superior Court
(1979) 89 Cal. App.3d 491, 495.) A motion to quash may be based on various
grounds, including that the subpoena: (1) seeks information that is not
relevant to the issues in the case (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010); (2) imposes an
undue burden or expense, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount
in controversy and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation (see
id. at § 2019.030(a)(2)); and (3) is unreasonably duplicative or
cumulative of discovery already obtained or information that is available from
another source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive. (Id.
at § 2019.030(a)(1).) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Dr. Lai
presents that Plaintiff’s subpoena seeks surveillance video and investigator
reports from non-party Paramount Investigative Services which are protected
from discovery as attorney work product and under the attorney-client privilege.
Dr. Lai emphasizes that there will be no prejudice to Plaintiff from the
issuance of a protective order whereas Dr. Lai will be prejudiced if he
prematurely discloses impeachment evidence. Dr. Lai argues that impeachment
evidence does not need to be exchanged or marked prior to trial under Los
Angeles Superior Court (“LASC”) Local Rule 3.52. Dr. Lai also presents that
there are more convenient, less burdensome, and less expensive means for
obtaining such information as the information can be obtained from Plaintiff
herself as Plaintiff is aware of her own actions in public. 
 
Plaintiff presents that the
attorney-client privilege does not protect surveillance evidence, directing the
Court and the parties to Suezaki v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166
(“Suezaki”). For the same reasons, Plaintiff argues that work product
doctrine does not apply to surveillance evidence. Plaintiff argues that good
cause exists for the discovery of surveillance evidence to enable Plaintiff to prepare
a proper examination of the person who conducted the surveillance, including
but not limited to evaluating concerns for the dangers and abuses of
surveillance and its techniques and manipulation such surveillance. Plaintiff
further emphasizes that such information is needed to prevent trial by ambush
and unfair surprise in trial. Plaintiff states that all video surveillance must
be produced to ensure proper foundation to prevent a false impression of
Plaintiff, Cal. Evid. Code § 356 requires the disclosure of all video
surveillance and related reports to avoid distortion of acts or statements from
their proper context, Plaintiff is allowed to introduce other relevant portions
of the surveillance videos. 
 
Dr. Lai presents that Plaintiff’s
interpretation of Suezaki is incorrect. Dr. Lai contends that while Suezaki
held investigator films did not fall under the work-product or attorney-client
privileges, that does not make any surveillance materials fair game. Dr. Lai
argues that Suezaki found the films discoverable only in the context of
that case based on the facts particular to the case and, as such, it does not
apply to all cases. Dr. Lai emphasizes that the Suezaki court stated:
(1) “[t]he trial court must consider all relevant factors involved and then
determine whether, under all the circumstances, discovery would or would not be
fair and equitable[]” (Suezaki, supra, 58 Cal.2d at 178), and (2)
trial courts “should not order the inspection as a matter of law”, instead the
question regarding discoverability would be at “the discretion of the trial
court, not of this court[]” (id. at 179). Dr. Lai argues that allowing
this deposition and subpoena would create a chilling effect on defense
counsel’s ability to defend against meritless claims if their own efforts is
subject to discovery. Dr. Lai further argues that denying this motion would
rule that impeachment evidence is always discoverable. Dr. Lai emphasizes that
Plaintiff is aware of her own actions and seeing the surveillance footage is
not necessary. Dr. Lai contends that only if Plaintiff chooses to comport
herself at trial, or provide witnesses that testify in a way that contradicts
the footage, then the footage will be used and, at that time, the footage would
be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel to review and investigators would be
deposed, if necessary. Dr. Lai contends that there is no ambush as Plaintiff can
testify to her own physical condition; and can have her own healthcare
providers testify as to her medical condition, range of activities, and
physical limitations. Dr. Lai informs the Court and the parties that he has
provided the dates, times, and locations of all surveillance and such
information is sufficient for Plaintiff to be on notice of where she was and
what she was doing. Dr. Lai further presents all locations were public, so
Plaintiff had no expectation of privacy. 
 
The subpoena is a request for
deposition of the person most qualified to testify on behalf of non-party,
Paramount Investigative Services, which includes a request for the following
documents:
 
·      
All writings as defined by Evidence Code § 250,
including records, documents, photographs, emails, text messages, videos,
surveillance videos, video footage (raw and unedited), media files,
surveillance photographs, and edited and unedited video which depict or purport
to depict the plaintiff, SAUNDRA PUTZIGER.
·      
All writings as defined by Evidence Code § 250,
including records, documents, memoranda, photographs, emails, text messages,
videos, surveillance videos, video footage (raw and unedited), media files,
surveillance photographs, and edited and unedited video which relate or refer
to the plaintiff, SAUNDRA PUTZIGER.
·      
All writings as defined by Evidence Code § 250
which relate, refer, or evidence communications to and from an employee, agent,
or representative of PARAMOUNT INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES and an employee, agent,
or representative of SCHAEFFER COTA ROSEN LLP concerning the plaintiff, SAUNDRA
PUTZIGER.
·      
All writings as defined by Evidence Code § 250
which relate, refer, or evidence communications to and from an employee, agent,
or representative of PARAMOUNT INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES and a person concerning
the plaintiff, SAUNDRA PUTZIGER.
 
(Motion, Exh. C.) 
 
Though Dr. Lai requests that the
deposition of the person most qualified/knowledgeable (addressed by the Court
as “PMQ”) be quashed, the arguments presented appear to discuss solely the
surveillance video and investigative reports. Likewise, the deposition is only
presented in passing in the Reply. 
 
As such, the Court will only
discuss the production requests. 
 
LASC Local Rule 3.52 reads:
 
All exhibits must be
exchanged and pre-numbered, except for those anticipated in good faith to be
used for impeachment. All exhibits must be pre-numbered before any reference
thereto by counsel or a witness.
 
This is inapposite as it focuses
on exhibits for trial and not the disclosure of such exhibits prior via
deposition subpoena. 
 
The Court believes Plaintiff’s
showing (i.e., prevention of trial by ambush, unfair surprise at trial,
examination of the person most qualified to testify about the surveillance
videos) to be sufficient for good cause under the facts of this case. 
 
Plaintiff’s cited case, Suezaki,
is also on point. However, the subpoena requests more than Suezaki
allows. 
 
Suezaki reads, in relevant
part:
 
It is quite clear
that although the investigator, the attorney and his client may have intended
the films to be confidential, to be privileged they must constitute a
"communication made by the client to [the attorney]" as that phrase
is used in section 1881. The film here involved obviously was not such a
"communication." It is simply a physical object transmitted to the
attorney either with or without an accompanying report or letter of
transmittal. As already pointed out, transmission alone, even where the parties
intend the matter to be confidential, cannot create the privilege if none, in
fact, exists. Moreover, even if the picture itself were to be deemed a
"communication," it cannot be said to be one from client to the
attorney. This is so not because the transmittal was from the investigator and
not from the client, for there are many situations in which a communication
made by an agent for the client is deemed to be the communication of the client
for the purpose of determining privilege. The matter is privileged if the agent
is required to communicate to the attorney something from the client which the
latter is unable to communicate himself, or where the communication can better
be transmitted through a specialist. In such case, the subject matter of the
communication is either the client himself (as in a report of a physical or
mental examination, X-ray or blood test; see City & County of San
Francisco v. Superior Court, 37 Cal.2d 227 [231 P.2d 26, 25 A.L.R.2d
1418]), or facts or impressions emanating from the client to the agent and by
him transmitted to the attorney. In these cases it is as if the client himself
transmitted the material to his attorney. The communication is then privileged
because the statute is designed to encourage, and protect, disclosure by the
client to his attorney. But that is not the instant case. Here, the film cannot
be said to be a communication made by the agent of something the client would
have transmitted himself had he been in a position so to do. The films are not
a graphic representation of the defendants, their activities, their mental
impressions, anything within their knowledge, or of anything owned by them. The
films are representations of the plaintiff, not of the defendants. If they can
be said to be a "communication" in any sense of the word, they
represent an unconscious and unintended "communication" from
plaintiff. Certainly, there is nothing in subdivision 2 of section 1881 of the
Code of Civil Procedure (or in the cases interpreting it) that can be said to create
a privilege in a communication from a litigant to his adversary's attorney.
 
The defendants,
however, approach the problem from another angle. They urge that, even if the
films are not privileged for other reasons, they are privileged solely because
they are the "work product" of their attorney. In this connection
they point out that without question their attorney had the films taken solely
as part of his trial preparation, and that they were intended to be
confidential. They urge that undoubtedly the films were the result of the work
product of the attorney, which is correct, and contend that for that reason
alone they are privileged as a matter of law, which is incorrect.
 
In the Greyhound
case (pp. 399-401) it was made abundantly clear that simply because the subject
matter sought to be discovered is the "work product" of the attorney
it is not privileged. It was there pointed out that if the subject matter
involved is the work product of the attorney 
that is a factor that the trial court should consider, in its
discretion, together with other relevant factors, in determining whether to
deny or to grant discovery in whole or in part. But it also was pointed out
that "work product" of the attorney is not absolutely privileged. In
this connection, it was expressly held in Greyhound (p. 401) that, insofar as Hickman
v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 [67 S.Ct. 385, 91 L.Ed. 451], held to the contrary
under federal law, it was not the law of California. This distinction between
considering "work product" as privileged, and considering it as a
factor in determining whether to grant or deny discovery is not one of words
only. Were "work product" to be deemed a rule of privilege in
California, then whenever the fact of "work product" was found to
exist, the court would be compelled to deny discovery as a matter of law. But
under the California rule, the trial court may consider the facts on which a
claim of "work product" is predicated, and exercise the discretion
granted by the provisions of the discovery statutes in order to prevent abuse
and to reach a determination consistent 
with equity and justice. This simply means that in California the fact
that the material sought to be discovered is the "work product" of
the attorney is one factor to be used by the trial court in the exercise of its
discretion in determining whether or not discovery should be granted. It does
not mean that, simply because the material involved is the "work
product" of the attorney, it can or should deny discovery. Something more
must exist. The trial court must consider all the relevant factors involved and
then determine whether, under all the circumstances, discovery would or would
not be fair and equitable. This is made quite clear even in the case of Hickman
v. Taylor, relied upon so strongly by defendants. They interpret that case
to mean that all "work product" is nondiscoverable. The case did not
so hold. It limited its rule of nondiscoverability to those portions of the
attorney's files containing material disclosing the mental processes of the
attorney formed while he was interviewing witnesses, and stressed the fact that
the discovery there sought would be tantamount to compelling the attorney to
become a witness. Such matters should not be discoverable under the California
rule. But there is nothing in Hickman v. Taylor that holds or implies
that a film such as the one here involved would not be discoverable under the
federal rules. In fact, the inference is to the contrary.
 
(Suezaki, supra, 58 Cal.2d 166, 176-79.)
 
In short, Suezaki holds
that surveillance videos and/or footage is not communication from a client to
an attorney and surveillance videos are discoverable as they do not contain “material
disclosing the mental processes of the attorney formed while he was
interviewing witnesses.” (Id. at 178.) 
 
Thus, Suezaki supports
disclosure of the photographs, emails, text messages, videos, surveillance
videos, video footage (raw and unedited), media files, surveillance
photographs, and edited and unedited video from Paramount Investigative
Services. There is no discussion of investigative reports in Suezaki. 
 
While Plaintiff cites to Fellows
v. Superior Court (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d 55 (“Fellows”). However,
this case has been overruled in part by Coito v. Superior Court (2012)
54 Cal.4th 480 (“Coito”). Plaintiff does not inform the Court or parties
of this in her citation. Coito specifically holds that Fellows as
well as some other cases are disapproved to the extent, they suggest a witness
statement taken by an attorney does not, as a matter of law, constitute work
product. Coito also states: “In addition, Greyhound, supra, 56
Cal.2d 355, which was decided before the Legislature codified the work product
privilege, should not be read as supporting such a conclusion.”
 
National Steel Products Co. v.
Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d. 476 holds that the Court must conduct
a three step camera inspection of the report of an expert identified as a
witness in order to rule on the claim of the attorney’s work product privilege.
However, an expert witness is distinct from an investigator.
 
Plaintiff has provided no case
law directly addressing investigator reports and attorney work product
privilege. However, “[t]he person claiming protection under the attorney work product
doctrine bears the burden of proving the preliminary facts to show the doctrine
applies. [Citation.]” (League of California Cities v. Superior Court
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 976, 993.) 
 
Dr. Lai provides:
 
[T]he product of the
attorney's effort, research, and thought in the preparation of his client's
case. It includes the results of his own work, and the work of those employed
by him or for him by his client, in investigating both the favorable and
unfavorable aspects of the case, the information thus assembled, and the legal
theories and plan of strategy developed by the attorney—all as reflected in
interviews, statements, memoranda, correspondence, briefs, and any other
writings reflecting the attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research or theories, and in countless other tangible and intangible ways.
 
(Motion 8:3-9 [citing BP
Alaska Exploration, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1253
fn. 4].)
 
This citation was before the
Legislature codified the work product privilege in Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2018.030. Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2018.030. It would appear that the
investigative reports fall under subdivision (b) as there has been no showing
that the reports contain the impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research or theories of Dr. Lai’s counsel. (See Citizens for Ceres v.
Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911-12 [“The attorney is the
holder of this privilege. [Citation.] A party asserting the privilege must
“prove the preliminary facts to show that the privilege applies.” [Citation.]
When a party asserts the absolute privilege, the court cannot require the
material to be produced for in camera review to evaluate the claim of
privilege, but the court can require production for in camera review when the
party asserts only the qualified privilege. [Citation.] An opposing party
seeking to overcome a claim of qualified privilege has the burden of
establishing prejudice. [Citation.]”][emphasis added].) Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2018.030(b)
reads: “[t]he work product of an attorney, other than a writing described in
subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court determines that denial of
discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that
party’s claim or defense or will result in an injustice.”
 
As the (1) investigative reports
are not encompassed by attorney-client privilege, (2) work product is not
absolute under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2018.030, and (3) Dr. Lai has not shown
that the investigative reports are encompassed by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2018.030(a),
the Court intends to conduct an in camera hearing of the investigative reports.

 
Accordingly, the Motion for
Protective Order Quashing Subpoena of Person Most Qualified to Testify on
Behalf of Paramount Investigative Services with Demand for Production of
Documents is GRANTED in part. The subpoena is limited to photographs, emails,
video, surveillance videos, video footage (raw and unedited), medial filed, surveillance
photographs, and edited and unedited video. Regarding investigative reports,
the Court will conduct an in camera hearing on February 16, 2024.
 
-----
 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Brian Lai, M.D.’s
Motion for Protective Order Quashing Subpoena of Person Most Qualified to
Testify on Behalf of Paramount Investigative Services with Demand for
Production of Documents is GRANTED in part. 
 
The subpoena is limited to
photographs, emails, video, surveillance videos, video footage (raw and
unedited), medial filed, surveillance photographs, and edited and unedited
video. 
 
Regarding investigative reports
at issue, the Court will conduct an in camera hearing on February 16, 2024.