 Case Number:  22AVCV00628    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiff Saul Vanegas (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he is an armed security guard
that works under the table for Defendant CulichiTown Management Group Inc.
(“CulichiTown”) and on October 11, 2021, he was preparing to leave when the
manager of CulichiTown approached him to let him know there was a fight inside
the restaurant and requested that Plaintiff continue working and stop the
fight. Plaintiff further alleges that he went over to the direction of the
fight and saw a male, later identified as Joseph M. Quirola, sued here as the
Estate of Joseph M. Quirola (as to both the estate and the individual
“Quirola”), and asked Quirola to stop, but Quirola’s female companion
intervened and yelled at Plaintiff to leave them alone and not tell them what
to do. Plaintiff presents that, afterwards, the Quirola’s female companion
grabbed a glass and attempted to throw it at Plaintiff, Plaintiff warned her
not to throw it or he would be forced to pepper spray her, Quirola’s female
companion threw the glass and Quirola rushed at Plaintiff, Plaintiff pepper
sprayed both individuals, Quirola then pulled out a gun and shot at Plaintiff
multiple times, going through Plaintiff’s bulletproof vest, and Plaintiff fired
his weapon for self-defense. Plaintiff contends that he could not return to
work immediately due to his injuries from this incident and, because of this,
CulichiTown and Defendants Sammy’s Café Mexican Food and Carlos Entertainment,
Inc. (“Sammy’s Café”), Ramon Misael Elenes (“Elenes”), and Norberto Manuel
Perez Gutierrez (“Gutierrez”) terminated his employment. 
 
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint, alleging five causes of action for: (1) Assault against
Quirola; (2) Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence against Quirola; (4)
Premises Liability – Negligence against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and
Gutierrez; and (5) Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against
CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez.
 
On February 16, 2023, Sammy’s
Café filed its Answer and Cross-Complaint for Equitable/Implied Indemnity,
Apportionment and Contribution, and Declaratory Relief against Moe Defendants 1
through 25.
 
On August 08, 2023 Sammy’s Café
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
On August 16, 2023, an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) was held.
 
On August 18, 2023, the parties
stipulated to a continuance.
 
On August 30, 2023, a second IDC
was held. 
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Motion for Leave to Amend the Complaint, subsequently granted.
 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging seven causes of action for:
(1) Assault against Quirola; (2) Battery against Quirola; (3) Negligence
against Quirola; (4) Premises Liability – Negligence against CulchiTown,
Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; (5) Premises Liability – Willful Failure
to Warn against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez; (6) Negligence
– Cal. Lab. Code § 3706 against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and
Gutierrez; and (7) Wrongful Termination – Violation of Public Policy – Cal.
Lab. Code § 132a against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez.
 
On October 06, 2023, Sammy’s Café
filed this Demurrer.
 
On January 08, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
On January 09, 2024, Sammy’s Café
filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.
(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d
593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing
mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Vance v.
Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)¿ Counsel for Sammy’s
Café, Douglas J. Lief (“Lief”) provides a declaration stating that he sent a
meet and confer letter to opposing counsel, but there has been no response.
(Decl. Lief ¶¶ 4-5.) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4). The Court addresses the Demurrer on its
merits. 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Sammy’s
Café demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action (Premises Liability – Negligence
against CulchiTown, Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez) and Fifth Cause of
Action (Premises Liability – Willful Failure to Warn against CulchiTown,
Sammy’s Café, Elenes, and Gutierrez) in the FAC.
 
Sammy’s Café presents that
Plaintiff has conceded that he was an employee at the time of the incident and
argues that Plaintiff’s sole and exclusive remedy is through workers
compensation, citing Cal. Lab. §3600(a)(2).
 
Plaintiff argues that worker’s
compensation is not exclusive as all employers must purchase a worker’s
compensation policy for such immunity, citing Hernandez v. Chavez Roofing,
Inc. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1092 (“Hernandez”); Minish v. Hanuman
Fellowship (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 437, 461 (“Minish”);
and Cal. Lab. Code § 3700. Plaintiff highlights that, while he conceded that he
was an employee, he also conceded that this work was under the table and,
therefore, Cal. Lab. Code does not apply. Plaintiff also presents that this
demurrer is improper as it decides a factual issue and confuses the facts as Sammy’s
Café demurs based on Plaintiff’s employee status while stating that Plaintiff
was not an employee. 
 
On Reply, Sammy’s Cafe requests
the Court take judicial notice of its own records,  exhibits related to the Leave to File an
Amended Complaint, where it is shown that Sammy’s Café had a worker’s
compensation policy in effect at the time of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries and Plaintiff
has conceded that a worker’s compensation policy was in place by Plaintiff’s
counsel’s signed declaration which states, “[T]he information provided by
Defendants’ opposition leads gives Plaintiff reason to believe that Defendants
have violated their own alleged Workers’ Compensation Policy by providing false
and misleading information to the insurance carrier.” (Reply 4:3-6.) Sammy’s
Café then argues that the existence of a worker’s compensation policy negates
Plaintiff’s arguments.
 
The Court declines to take
judicial notice on Reply as doing so would deprive Plaintiff of an opportunity
to respond. Further, it is well established that new arguments presented in
reply briefs will not be considered. (See In re Marriage of Khera &
Sameer (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477-78 [“ ‘Obvious reasons of fairness
militate against consideration of an issue raised initially in the reply brief
of an appellant. [Citations.]”]; Varjabedian v. City of Madera (1977) 20
Cal.3d 285, 295, fn. 11 [. . .“Obvious reasons of fairness militate against
consideration of an issue raised initially in the reply brief of an
appellant.”]; People v. Smithey (1999) 20 Cal.4th 936, 1017, fn. 26 [“
‘[T]he rule is that points raised in the reply brief for the first time will
not be considered, unless good reason is shown for failure to present them
before. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]”].)
 
Sammy’s Café’s Demurrer misstates
Plaintiff’s allegations. Plaintiff has alleged: “Saul Vanegas
("Plaintiff") is an armed security guard that worked under the table
for CulichiTown Management Group, Inc., located in Lancaster, CA.” (FAC ¶ 18.)
The Court notes, in consideration of the sham pleading doctrine, that this
allegation is also present in the Complaint. (See Complaint ¶ 18.) Plaintiff
has conceded that works for CulichiTown “under the table.” “Under the table” is
defined as “covert and usually unlawful.” (See Merriam-Webster Dictionary,
under-the-table (adj.) <
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/under-the-table> [as of Jan. 12,
2023].) Thus, Plaintiff has not only alleged that he was an employee, but that
the employment was covert and, possibly, unlawful. 
 
There has been no showing that
there are defects on the face of the
pleading. That is, there has been no showing that Plaintiff’s Complaint is
barred by Cal. Lab. Code § 3600(a)(2) as it is unaddressed as to how Cal. Lab.
Code § 3600(a)(2) applies to an “under the table” employee. The Court notes
that, had it taken judicial notice of the Sammy’s Café’s requested documents,
the issue would still remain as there has been no showing that the worker’s
compensation policy addressed in the documents would apply to Plaintiff due to
his status as an “under the table” employee. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Sammy’s Café Mexican
Food and Carlos Entertainment, Inc. is OVERRULED.