 Case Number:  23AVCV00758    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a bodily injury action.
Plaintiff Alejandro Banuelos (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about July 16,
2021, he was a patron at 45244 32nd St. W, Lancaster, CA, 93536 (the
“Premises”) when he was approached by Defendant John Doe while in the parking
lot. Plaintiff presents that John Doe had an unknown object in his hands and
assaulted and battered Plaintiff, causing physical and psychological injuries.
 
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed
his Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (4) Negligence; and (5)
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention.
 
On September 06, 2023, Plaintiff
filed this Motion for an Order Nunc Pro Tunc Correcting an E-Filing Error of
the Filing Date of the Summons and Complaint, subsequently granted. The
Complaint is deemed filed on July 14, 2023.
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant
The People Concern (“TPC”) filed its Demurrer.
 
On December 13, 2023, counsel for
TPC, Golnar J. Fozi (“Fozi”) filed an Amended Declaration regarding the
Demurrer. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Defendant
When Life Hands You Lemons, LP dba Kensington Campus (“WLHYL”) filed a joinder
to TPC’s Demurrer.
 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition. “All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed
with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days. . .before
the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends
the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done, does not
apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed
by this section.” (Ibid.) The hearing is set for January 30, 2024.
Accordingly, an Opposition was due by January 17, 2024. The Opposition is
untimely. “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was
untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to
consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).) The Court, in its discretion, considers the
untimely Opposition. 
 
On January 19, 2024, TPC filed
its Reply.
 
On January 23, 2024, WLHYL,
joining defendant, filed its Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.
(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d
593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing
mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Vance v.
Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
-----¿ 
¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)¿ Fozi provides a
declaration stating that he sent both a meet and confer letter and an email to
opposing counsel, but there has been no response. (Decl. Fozi ¶¶ 4-5.) The
Court notes WLHYL has also filed a declaration by its counsel, James W. Colfer
(“Colfer”), indicating that he left a voicemail and a letter to opposing
counsel in order to meet and confer prior to filing the Joinder. (See Decl.
Colfer ¶¶ 4-5). There is no discussion in Colfer’s declaration regarding
whether a response was received. “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4). The Court addresses the
Demurrer on its merits.  
 
----- 
 
Discussion
 
Application – TPC
demurs to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence) and Fifth Cause of
Action (Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention).
 
WLHYL has filed a Joinder. WLHYL’s
Joinder indicates that TPC’s factual and legal authorities apply to WLHYL to
the same force and effect. (See Joinder 2:1-5.) WLHYL provides two argument
themselves, but requests only that the Court sustain TPC’s Demurrer without
leave to amend. Joinder is appropriate where the joinder seeks affirmative
relief on behalf of the joining party and joins in the arguments made by the
motion being joined. (Barak v. Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 654, 661.) If the joinder itself is not in the form of a motion,
does not present any evidence or argument, or fails to seek relief for the
party joining, the joinder does not alone constitute a motion that will entitle
a party to relief or cause the party to be bound by the ruling of the court on
the pending motion made by another party. (Decker v. U.D. Registry, Inc.
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1382, 1391 [superseded by statute on other grounds].)
 
The Court will review the
Demurrer with the understanding that WLHYL has joined TPC’s arguments. 
 
i.               
Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence)
 
TPC argues that the Complaint
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for negligence as
there is no legal duty on behalf of TPC as (1) Plaintiff has not alleged that
TPC had any control over or relationship with the attacker which would give
rise to a duty to protect Plaintiff from harm; (2) there are no facts to show
that TPC had control over Plaintiff; (3) Plaintiff’s allegations that
defendants “had an affirmative legal duty to use due care for the protection of
Plaintiff against unreasonable risk of harm[]” (Complaint ¶ 33) and defendants
“formed a special relationship between the employees and subject premises
resulting in the affirmative duty on the employees to take all reasonable steps
to protect the occupants of the subject premises[]” (id. ¶ 34) is
conclusory. TPC concedes that there is a duty to protect another from criminal
acts of third parties based on foreseeability, citing Ann M. v. Pacific
Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679, but argues that Plaintiff
has not alleged that the injury was foreseeable. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Cal. Civ.
Code § 1714 provides the basis for liability and case law and statute provide
that companies are vicariously responsible for their employees. Plaintiff cites
to the elements of negligence and argues that he has sufficiently pled factual
allegations against TPC sufficient to withstand demurrer. Plaintiff highlights
that TPC is in possession of the facts and, based on this fact and the
pleadings, is sufficiently on notice as to (1) what incident it is that the
Complaint is discussing and (2) the John Doe employee’s alleged role in the
assault and battery against Plaintiff. 
 
In Reply, TPC reiterates that the
Complaint fails to state a cause of action for negligence as (1) there is
generally no duty to protect others from the criminal acts of third parties;
(2) an exception exists if a defendant has a special relationship with a third
party or plaintiff; (3) the Complaint fails to adequately plead that TPC had an
affirmative legal duty to protect Plaintiff as there are no facts to show that
TPC had any control over the third-party. 
 
WLHYL presents in its Reply that
(1) Plaintiff does not contest the central proposition of the Demurrer – that a
defendant is not held liable for a criminal assault committed by a third party;
(2) Plaintiff’s cited cases are not applicable; (3) Plaintiff is not asserting
that John Doe, the attacker, was an employee of either TPC or WLHYL. WLHYL
contends that, while Plaintiff has made assertions that a special relationship exists
between TPC and WLHYL and Plaintiff as well as TPC and WLHYL and John Doe, the
assertions are unsupported. Thus, Plaintiff is attempting to manufacture a
claim for negligence. 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
notes that Complaint does not allege that John Doe is an employee. (See
Complaint ¶ 4 [alleging only Alicia Doe and Leslie Doe are employees].) The
only allegation as to John Doe that does not stem from the alleged incident
reads: 
 
Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and based upon such information and belief alleges that
at all times relevant hereto Defendants JOHN DOE, an individual; ALICIA DOE, an
individual; LESLIE DOE, an individual; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, are, and
at all times herein mentioned were individuals, corporations, sole proprietors,
shareholders, associations, partners and partnerships, joint ventures, and/or
business entities unknown, primarily residing and doing business in the County
of Los Angeles, State of California
 
(Complaint ¶ 3.)
 
The Complaint further does not
mention liability based on Cal. Civ. Code § 1714. Rather, the duty is alleged
to stem from a special relationship. (See infra for discussion.) ¿The Court reiterates the legal standard on
a demurrer: (1) a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters; (2) no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer;
(3) a general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions
of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or
allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice. (See
legal standard, ante.)
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations read, in
relevant part:
 
The preceding
paragraphs of this Complaint are incorporated by reference.
 
Defendants, and each
of them, had an affirmative legal duty to use due care for the protection of
Plaintiff against unreasonable risk of harm.
 
Defendants, and each
of them, formed a special relationship between the employees and subject
premises resulting in the affirmative duty on the employees to take all
reasonable steps to protect the occupants of the subject premises.
 
Additionally,
because of the special relationship between Plaintiff and the subject premises,
Defendants KENSINGTON CAMPUS, unknown entity; THE PEOPLE CONCERN, unknown
entity; WHEN LIFE HANDS YOU LEMONS, LP, a California Limited Partnership;
ALICIA DOE, an individual; LESLIE DOE, an individual; and DOES 1 TO 100,
inclusive, had a duty to control Defendant JOHN DOE and protect Plaintiff from
physical and mental
harm.
 
Defendants, and each
of them, breached their duty of care for the protection of Plaintiff when
Defendant JOHN DOE in the presence of others, aggressively approached Plaintiff
on the subject premises and threatened to touch and/or grab Plaintiff in a harmful
manner such that it reasonably appeared that Defendant JOHN DOE was about to
carry out the threat; As Plaintiff walked toward his parked vehicle within the
parking lot of the subject premises he was approached by Defendant JOHN DOE
with an unknown object in his hands. Defendant JOHN DOE physically assaulted
Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.
 
As a direct result
of the breach of their affirmative duty to protect Plaintiff from physical or
psychological injury while at the subject premises, the malfeasance and/or
nonfeasance of Defendants, and each of them, was the proximate or legal cause
of Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
The conduct of
Defendants, and each of them, was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 32-38.)
 
The allegations appear to state
that (1) defendants have a special relationship with employees which led to a
duty to protect occupants, (2) defendants have a special relationship with
Plaintiff which led to a duty to protect Plaintiff, (3) defendants breached
their duty to protect Plaintiff, and (4) Plaintiff suffered injury because of
defendants’ breach of their duty to protect. However, as TPC correctly points
out, these are conclusory statements. There are not facts alleged as to what
constitutes a special relationship or how any defendant had a special
relationship with their employees or Plaintiff that would impose a duty to
protect. As such, there is no underlying support that would lead to a
reasonable inference that a special relationship exists between defendants and
either the employees or Plaintiff. “A
general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.” (Blank, supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, a defect exists which appears on the face of
the pleadings as Plaintiff has not pled the required elements for a claim of
negligence.
 
Regarding foreseeability, there is no
allegation of foreseeability of the attack within the Complaint. 
 
The Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action
(Negligence) is SUSTAINED.
 
ii.             
Fifth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention)
 
TPC argues that Plaintiff has not advanced
factual allegations to demonstrate any of the essential elements for negligent
hiring, retention, or supervision. TPC presents that Plaintiff has only used
legal conclusions to assert that it knew or should have known that Defendants
Alicia Doe and Leslie Doe were incompetent and unfit and that their
incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including
Plaintiff. TPC highlights that the Complaint is devoid of any facts indicating:
(1) that Leslie and Alicia Doe were incompetent and unfit, (2) that TPC
“knew or should have known” about their incompetence and unfitness, and (3) how
their incompetence and unfitness was a substantial factor in bringing about
Plaintiff’s alleged harm.
 
Plaintiff
summarizes case law surrounding negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.
Plaintiff specifically highlights that these claims depend on foreseeability,
that negligence is established if a reasonably prudent person would foresee that
injuries of the same general type would be likely to happen in the absence of
adequate safeguards, one may have a duty to control the conduct of a third
party when a special relationship exists, and examples of when a special
relationship may exist or arise. Plaintiff argues that he has sufficiently pled
factual allegations against TPC sufficient to withstand demurrer as it is
alleged that TPC was in a special relationship with Plaintiff and the employee
alleged to have committed to act against Plaintiff and TPC is in possession of
the information related to the hiring, supervision, and retention of John Doe. 
 
TPC
presents that the Complaint does not offer any facts for the Court to infer
that Alicia Doe and Leslie Doe had any propensity to do a bad act or that TPC
was aware that Alicia Doe and Leslie Doe had a propensity to do a bad act. TPC
presents that the Complaint resorts to legal conclusions, citing paragraph 41,
as the Complaint is missing facts that would give TPC a reason to believe its
alleged employees engaged in conduct that would render them incompetent or
unfit and the Complaint is missing any description of detail as to how their
alleged incompetence caused Plaintiff harm. 
 
WLHYL
argues that the Complaint is devoid of facts to support a conclusion that
Alicia Doe or Leslie Doe were employees of either TPC or WLHYL as it does not
identify in what capacity either of them were employed or how their employment
would have put them in a position to prevent the assault. WLHYL also emphasizes
that Plaintiff does not even assert that Alicia Doe or Leslie Doe was present
or otherwise observed the assault and that no facts are alleged to suggest that
either of them could have anticipated or prevented the subject opinion. WLHYL
echoes TPC’s argument that the Complaint fails to provide a factual basis for
the assertion that Alicia Doe or Leslie Doe were unqualified, incompetent, or
negligent in carrying their entirely ambiguous and undefined job duties.
 
The Court
reiterates, for clarity, that no where in the Complaint was it alleged that
John Doe is an employee. (See discussion ante.) Further, the Complaint
specifically identifies Alicia Doe and Leslie Doe as the employees for this
cause of action. (See Complaint ¶¶ 41-42, 44.) The Court is concerned due to
Plaintiff’s counsel, Alex Vandenberg (“Vandenberg”) representations as it seems
to raise questions of competent representation. (See State Bar of California
Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.1 Competence.) This is further supported
by the fact that Vandenburg (1) indicated that TPC, the demurring party, is
Plaintiff; and (2) signed off as TPC’s counsel on page 14 of the Opposition. (See
Opp. 14:9-13.) The Court inquires at the hearing.
 
“California case law recognizes the theory
that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring,
supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe v. Capital Cities
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) “Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.’ ” (Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139; see also Z.V. v.
County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902 and Doe v. Capital
Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) “[A] negligent supervision claim depends, in part, on a showing that the
risk of harm was reasonably foreseeable. [Citations.] ‘Foreseeability is
determined in light of all the circumstances and does not require prior
identical events or injuries.’ [Citations.] ‘ “It is not necessary to prove
that the very injury which occurred must have been foreseeable by the school
authorities . . .. Their negligence is established if a reasonably prudent
person would foresee that injuries of the same general type would be likely to
happen in the absence of[adequate] safeguards.” ’ ” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2019) 35Cal.App.5th 210, 229.) To be liable for
negligent supervision and hiring, there must be a connection between the
employment and injury. (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1341.) "Liability
for negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an
enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to
customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the
wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees. (Id. at 1339.) “The
tort has development in California in factual settings where the plaintiff's
injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact between the plaintiff and the
employee was generated by the employment relationship.” (Id. at pp.
1339-1340.)
 
The relevant allegations read:
 
The preceding paragraphs of this Complaint
are incorporated by reference.
 
Defendants KENSINGTON CAMPUS, unknown
entity; THE PEOPLE CONCERN, unknown entity; WHEN LIFE HANDS YOU LEMONS, LP, a
California Limited Partnership; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, knew or should
have known that Defendant ALICIA DOE and LESLIE DOE were incompetent and unfit
and that their incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others,
including Plaintiff.
 
Defendants ALICIA DOE and LESLIE DOE’s
incompetence and unfitness harmed Plaintiff.
 
As a result of the conduct of Defendants,
and each of them, the Plaintiff was physically and psychologically damaged,
incurred medical bills, sustained disability and had to retain an attorney and
has incurred legal costs in connection therewith in order to prosecute this
action.
 
Defendants KENSINGTON CAMPUS, unknown
entity; THE PEOPLE CONCERN, unknown entity; WHEN LIFE HANDS YOU LEMONS, LP, a
California Limited Partnership; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, negligence in
hiring, supervising and/or retaining Defendants ALICIA DOE and LESLIE DOE was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 40-44.)
 
As mentioned, ante, there
are no allegations regarding foreseeability within the Complaint. 
 
Further, as to Alica Doe and
Leslie Doe’s alleged incompetence and unfitness, the Complaint states only “Defendant ALICIA DOE and LESLIE DOE were
incompetent and unfit and that their incompetence and unfitness created a
particular risk to others, including Plaintiff.” (See Complaint ¶ 41.) Without
anything further, this is a conclusory statement. “A general demurrer does not admit
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.” (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p.
318.)¿ Thus, Plaintiff has not pled the required elements for a claim of
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
 
The Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention) is SUSTAINED.
 
The Court notes that there is a third section in Plaintiff’s Opposition
titled, “Defendant [i]s [a]lso Negligent [f]or Its Own Actions and Inactions.” It
is unclear which cause of action this argument applies to; however, the Court
believes that this argument applies to both causes of action demurred to.
 
Plaintiff reiterates his argument for the First Cause of Action
(Negligence), reiterates his argument for the Second Cause of Action (Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention).
 
The Court has addressed these arguments, ante, and, as such, its
opinion remains the same.
 
Accordingly, TPC’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
TPC’s Demurrer does not request
the Court sustain the Demurrer without leave to amend. 
 
WLHYL’s Joinder, however,
requests the Court sustain the Demurrer without leave to amend. However, there
is no argument included. (See Joinder 4:7-8 [only mention of “without leave to
amend”].)
 
Plaintiff argues that it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend. Plaintiff cites to TPC’s website
and presents that it is clear from the way TPC describes itself that there is a
special relationship and Plaintiff can make further allegations.
 
The Court disregards Plaintiff’s
arguments related to TPC’s website as (1) TPC’s website is outside the scope of
this Demurrer; and (2) if TPC’s website is judicially noticeable, Plaintiff has
not requested judicial notice of TPC’s website. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Here, it is reasonably possible that an
amendment may rectify the deficiencies within the pleadings.
 
Accordingly, leave to amend is GRANTED. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant The People Concern’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff Alejandro Banuelos is to file an amended
pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.