  Case Number:  22STCV33455    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Verified Application of Edward A.
Marshall to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant Payment Depot, Inc.

 
Moving Party: Defendant
Payment Depot, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    None 
 
SUBJECT:        Verified Application of Theresa Y.
Kananen to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant Payment Depot, Inc.
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Payment Depot, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    None 
 
 
        The Verified Applications are GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 13, 2022, Plaintiff Ranked Media, Inc. filed
its Complaint against Defendant Payment Depot, Inc. on causes of action arising
from the Parties’ business transactions. 
 
On December 9, 2022, Defendant filed its Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed: (1) Verified
Application of Edward A. Marshall to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for
Defendant Payment Depot, Inc.; and (2) Verified Application of Theresa Y.
Kananen to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant Payment Depot, Inc. In
support of each of the verified applications, Defendant concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Andrew A. Wood; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
No oppositions or other responses have been filed to the
Verified Applications. 
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Counsel Applicants
seek admission to appear as counsel pro
hac vice to represent Defendant in this action, and to be associated as co-counsel with Andrew A. Wood. 
 
Counsel Applicant
Marshall is a member in good standing of the State of Georgia, the Northern
District of Georgia, and the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. (Verified
Application Marshall, ¶ 4.)
 
Counsel Applicant
Kananen is a member in good standing of the States of Arizona and Georgia and
various federal courts, including the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. (Verified
Applications, ¶ 4.)
 
Counsel Applicants
have each appeared before in California state courts within the last two years,
including twice by Counsel Applicant Marshall and thrice by Counsel Applicant
Kananen. (Verified Applications, ¶ 6.) None have appeared
enough times to have their applications denied. 
 
For each Counsel
Applicant, local Counsel Andrew A. Wood declares that the $50 fees required to
be admitted pro hac vice were
concurrently paid to the State Bar of California and that service was made upon
the State Bar at its San Francisco address. (Decls.
Wood, ¶ 2.)
 
        The Court GRANTS the Verified
Applications.
 