 Case Number:  22STCV26335    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  14  RS Group APS v. GWRS HoldingsInstant Motion
            
Defendant
Gumruckcu now moves this court for an order staying this case pending the
outcome of a federal criminal trial in the District of Vermont.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is DENIED, without prejudice to a
renewed motion citing new facts or changed circumstances.
 
Governing Standard
 
The leading case on how to handle
civil actions with parallel criminal proceedings is Fuller v. Superior Court
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 307-308:
 
“Courts faced with a civil defendant
who is exposed to a related criminal prosecution have responded with various
procedural solutions designed to fairly balance the interests of the parties
and the judicial system. Accommodation of the various interests, however, is
usually made to a defendant in a civil action from the standpoint of fairness,
not from any constitutional right. Courts that are confronted with a civil
defendant who is exposed to criminal prosecution arising from the same facts
weigh the parties' competing interests with a view toward accommodating the
interests of both parties, if possible. Courts have broad discretion in
controlling the course of discovery. Hence, in a discovery dispute, such as
this one, the trial court must exercise its discretion in assessing and balancing
the nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on all sides.
 
Historically, courts have devised a
number of procedures designed to accommodate the specific circumstances of the
case. One accommodation is to stay the civil proceeding until disposition of
the related criminal prosecution. Another possibility is to allow the civil
defendant to invoke the privilege against self-incrimination, even if doing so
may limit the defendant's ability to put on a defense. Other accommodations have
included conferring an immunity on the party invoking the privilege, or
precluding a litigant who claims the constitutional privilege against
self-incrimination in discovery from waiving the privilege and testifying at
trial to matters upon which the privilege had been asserted. Each of these
procedural tools is devised based on the circumstances of the particular case.
The alleviation of tension between constitutional rights has been treated as
within the province of a court's discretion in seeking to assure the sound
administration of justice.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted).
 
A stay of the case is generally appropriate where the
criminal case arises out of the same transaction as the civil case and the applicable
criminal statute of limitations is likely to run comparatively soon. See Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690 (case involving
battery of federal officers stayed where federal statute would run out in just
less than two years). A stay order may be less appropriate where the party
invoking the privilege is not the only defendant and the length of the stay is
unknown. See Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th
876, 886-887 (providing a list of generic factors to be analyzed).
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant Gumrukcu’s primary argument in his moving
papers is that two witnesses (Mr. Rene Sindlev and Mr. Mark Dybul) in this case
will also be witnesses in the federal case, and counsel expects that the
federal prosecutors will intervene to halt their depositions. Plaintiff in
response argues that Mr. Dybul should not be a witness in this case. But no
matter who is correct, this court cannot stay its cases based on speculation
about how a federal prosecutor may react to a deposition of a non-party
witness. If the parties try to depose one or both of these witnesses, and if
the federal prosecutors offer an objection, that issue can be addressed at that
time.
 
            Defendant Gumrukcu also argues that his 5th
Amendment rights in the criminal case will prevent discovery in this case.
However, he leaves any real argument on that subject to the reply, failing even
to supply a copy of the operative criminal charges. Review of the indictment
(Declaration of Marie E. Christiansen Exhibit A) shows charges that do not
necessarily have any overlap with this case. Counts 1-3 are for conspiracy to
commit murder; count 4 appears to be for wire fraud in connection with certain
oil trading transactions. This case has nothing to do with anything like that.
 
            On reply, Defendant Gumrukcu explains that paragraph 14
of count 4 refers to a “multimillion-dollar biotech merger,” that this merger
involved a company controlled by Rene Sindlev, who is in turn the principal
owner of Plaintiff. This connection is tenuous at best. In the first place, it
is not clear that the reference to the biotech merger is anything other than
background information. But even if that were the case, it is not clear that
the answer to any given question in this case would be useful or relevant to
the criminal case.
 
            It is also worth considering that there are other
defendants in this case who are not parties to the criminal matter. They are
entitled to have the claims against them resolved in a timely fashion.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant Gumrukcu has failed to meet his burden to
establish the requisite preconditions for a stay at this time. Therefore the motion
is DENIED, without prejudice to a renewed motion citing new facts or
changed circumstances.