 Case Number:  213STCV11252    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  14 Esquivel v. General Motors(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendant GM
now demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.10(e)-(f) to the fifth
cause of action in the FAC on the grounds that there are no facts sufficient to
support that cause of action against Defendant GM. 
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action: Fraud by Omission
 
The elements of fraud by omission
are:
 

Defendant
     concealed or suppressed a material fact;
defendant
     was under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff;
defendant
     intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
     the plaintiff; 
plaintiff
     was unaware of the fact and would not have acted in the same way knowing
     of the concealed or suppressed fact;
causation;  and
the
     plaintiff sustained damage.

 
Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.
 
The rule of specific pleading for
fraud claims, including how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
misrepresentations were communicated, is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations, and not to concealment. Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384. Concealment is sufficiently pled when the complaint as a whole provides
sufficient notice of the particular claims against defendants. Jones v.
ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200. “There are “four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.”” LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (quoting Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d
646, 651).
 
Substantive Pleading
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant GM
failed to disclose that the 8-speed transmission installed in Plaintiff’s
vehicle was susceptible to sudden and premature failure. (FAC ¶¶ 65-67). Plaintiff
alleged that Defendant GM received prior warning about the transmission, which
it called “world class” in its advertisements and “a neck snapper” internally.
(FAC ¶¶ 68-70). In fact, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant GM declined to
develop a repair solution due to the cost of doing so. (FAC ¶ 71).
 
Defendant GM argues that it had no
duty to disclose the alleged defect. For this proposition, Defendant GM relies
on Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276. But Bigler-Engler
is not on-point.
 
            In Bigler-Engler,
the plaintiff rented a medical device from her doctor which she claimed caused
serious injury to her knee. Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 286-292. Evaluating plaintiff’s
claim against the device manufacturer for fraudulent concealment, the Court of
Appeal referred to the above-quoted language from LiMandri v. Judkins, setting
forth the four circumstances that give rise to a duty to disclose. Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th
286-292 at 311. The panel stated that in the absence of a fiduciary
relationship, only the last three LiMandri categories could apply; but
even those three categories presupposed the existence of some other
relationship between the parties. Id. They ultimately held that because
there was no transactional or other relationship between the plaintiff and the
medical device manufacturer, the underpinning for applying any of the LiMandri
categories was absent. Id. at 312. The Court of Appeal rejected
plaintiff’s invitation to transplant the duty to disclose that exists in a
products liability context into a fraud context. Id.
 
            The
circumstances of buying a car are widely different from renting a medical
device. Doctors are not franchisees of medical device companies, and most
patients do not make physician appointments out of an eager desire to purchase
the latest model of pacemaker. Most patients wouldn’t know any particular
manufacturer from a hole in the ground, whereas auto makers create and operate
huge brands that inspire high levels of loyalty from consumers. People go to a
Chevy dealer to buy a Chevy, and they generally expect that the dealer (like most
franchisees) is significantly under the control of the manufacturer. See Daniel
v. Ford Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2015) 806 F.3d 1217, 1226-27 (auto
manufacturers communicate with their consumers through their dealerships). While
consumers are certainly aware of the difference between the maker and the
dealer, the difference is more theoretical than real. In the circumstances of
this case, there is at least a question of fact as to whether visiting an auto
dealer creates a sufficient relationship between the consumer and the automaker
itself.
 
            Plaintiff
has pled that Defendant GM had exclusive knowledge of the defect. That puts
this case within the second LiMandri category: a party with exclusive
knowledge has a duty to share that knowledge. See Falk v. General Motors
Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-97 (that duty still exists
even where the ignorant party could have discovered the information by engaging
in pre-transaction research). Therefore, Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to
show that Defendant GM had a duty to disclose the defect.
 
(2)       Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant GM
now moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 435-436, for an order
striking the punitive damages allegations from the FAC. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has properly pled a claim for
fraud by omission, which can form the basis for recovery of punitive damages.
Civil Code § 3294(a) &(c)(3). 