 Case Number:  22STCP03755    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  14 Mesrizadeh v. DiabPetition and Motion
 
Zal now petitions this court to
correct the award by reducing it to $16,861.00. Zal also moves this court for
an order staying enforcement of the award. In response, Diab requests that the
award be confirmed.
 
Decision
 
            The request
to correct the award is DENIED. The motion to stay enforcement is DENIED. The
request to confirm the award is GRANTED. Respondent Diab is to submit a
proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
Governing Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1285 provides
that “[a]ny party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to…correct or vacate the award.” Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1285.2 permits the responding party to request that the court confirm
the award instead. There is no need for multiple hearings; the court may
confirm, vacate, or correct the award via this single proceeding. Code of Civil
Procedure § 1286.
 
The default position is that the
court will confirm the award unless there is affirmative reason to vacate or
correct it. Code of Civil Procedure § 1286.
 
There are three possible grounds to
correct an award, set forth in Code of Civil Procedure § 1282.6:
 
“(a) There was an evident
miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the description of any
person, thing or property referred to in the award;
(b) The arbitrators exceeded their
powers but the award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the
decision upon the controversy submitted; or
(c) The award is imperfect in a
matter of form, not affecting the merits of the controversy.”
 
Each of these grounds is a standalone,
separate basis with its own qualifications that must be met. This is not a
factorial or balancing test, and items which are insufficient to place the
award in one category cannot be aggregated with other items to place the award
into another category where they do not apply. See Heimlich v. Shivji
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 350, 368 (refusal to hear evidence is not a back
door to other considerations). There is one door into each metaphorical “house,”
and it is the front door.
 
Request to Correct
 
            The award
submitted with the petition reflects the arbitrator’s decision that the costs
to correct Zal’s mistakes were $32,861.00. It also contains an order that Zal
pay that amount to Diab. Zal does not dispute those findings in this petition. 
 
Instead, Zal argues that it already
paid Diab $16,000, and that the arbitrator’s award should have been offset by
that amount. There is no evidence that a formal request for offset was made to
the arbitrator while the arbitration was pending. The only evidence is that
this request was expressly made only after the arbitration had concluded, and
that it was couched as a “correction” of the award, rather than as a submission
of a new or different issue.
 
The failure of the arbitrator to award
a $16,000 disputed offset[1] is
not a basis for the court to correct an award. The arbitrator decided the
question presented to him (how much did Zal owe Diab for each defect), and the
parties concede that his decision was correct. The presence or absence of a
$16,000 pre-payment, which would serve as an offset, was neither presented nor
decided. The court cannot “correct” the arbitrator’s award by deciding a
question not submitted to him. And even if the question had been submitted to
him, the court cannot “correct” an arbitrator’s award simply by overruling him.
 
This begs the broader question:
what can a party do if it advances part of an arbitration award before the
arbitration is complete, but its opponent refuses to acknowledge the advance? The
first answer is, rather obviously, make sure that the issue is clearly
submitted to the arbitrator during the arbitration. But even if that doesn’t
happen, the party still retains the ability to file post-judgment motions,
including a motion to amend the judgment, to ensure that it gets credit for
payments made. The court’s initial task is to enter a judgment that reflects the
arbitrator’s award. This does not mean that the court must allow a creditor to
simply keep the debtor’s payments without acknowledging them.
 
The request to correct the award is
DENIED.
 
Request to Confirm
 
            Because
there is no statutory reason to vacate or correct the award, the request to
confirm it is GRANTED. Diab is to submit a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
Motion to Stay Enforcement
 
            Zal
asks this court to stay enforcement of the award pending its decision on the
petition. But that petition is adjudicated in this same order. Therefore, that
cannot be a reason for the court to stay enforcement. Nor can Zal properly seek
to stay enforcement when, admittedly, they still owe Diab at least $16,861.00.
A stay is not appropriate on this record. The motion to stay enforcement is
DENIED.


