  Case Number:  23STCV29780    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
EDWARD CASILLAS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LIBERTY LIFE NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
  et al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV29780
  Hearing Date:  November 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant green financial llc’s motion
  to compel arbitration




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Edward Casillas filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants
Liberty Life National Insurance Company, Globe Life and Accident Insurance
Company, Globe Life Liberty National Division, and The Green Agencies.
Plaintiff has since passed away, and his mother (Terry Casillas) currently
pursues the action as Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest.  
            On April 10, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant Liberty Life National Insurance Company (LLN)’s motion to compel
arbitration based on an Independent Agent Contract between Plaintiff and LLN.             
            On October 11, 2024, Green Financial
LLC (erroneously sued as The Green Agencies) filed the instant motion to compel
arbitration based on the same Independent Agent Contract. Plaintiff filed his
opposition on November 6, 2024. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
            As the Court has already granted LLN’s
motion to compel arbitration, there is no dispute over the existence of the
subject agreement. There is also no dispute that the arbitration provision
covers the claims in the complaint. The issue on this motion is whether the
agreement applies to Green Financial (GF), a non-signatory.  
            “Generally speaking, one must be a
party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Pillar
Project AG v. Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671, 675.) An
exception to the general rule is when the non-signatory is an agent of a
signatory. “[W]hen a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party
to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement even
though the defendant is not a party thereto.” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.) 
            Here, Plaintiff alleges that all
defendants were his employers or joint employers. (Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Defendants, and each of them, were the agents, employees,
managing agents, supervisors, coconspirators, parent corporation, joint
employers, alter egos, successors, and/or joint ventures of the other
Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 12.) Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that “the
individuality and separateness of defendants have ceased to exist,” and
defendants “are, in reality, one and the same.” (Id., ¶ 17.)
            Plaintiff cites to Barsegian v.
Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 446 for the proposition that
boilerplate allegations of agency and alter ego do not constitute judicial
admissions that allow a non-signatory to enforce an arbitration agreement.
However, in a later case, the Court of Appeal distinguished Barsegian in
the following manner: 
 
“Unlike the
allegations in Barsegian, here the operative complaint alleged workplace
violations against Real Time and Pexco as joint employers, referred to both
employers collectively as ‘defendants’ without any distinction, and alleged
identical claims and conduct regarding unlawful and improper acts. This was not
merely boilerplate language. As the alleged joint employers, Pexco and Real
Time were agents of each other in their dealings with Garcia. Accordingly,
Pexco is entitled to compel arbitration of Garcia's claims against it under the
arbitration clause in Garcia's contract with Real Time.”
(Garcia
v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788.) 
            Garcia is directly on point,
because Plaintiff here also alleges that LLN and GF were his joint employers
and refers to both as “defendants” without distinction. (See Compl. ¶¶ 8,
16-20.) Plaintiff alleges identical claims against both defendants and
attributes identical wrongdoing to both as his joint employers. These are more
than boilerplate allegations of agency or alter ego. Instead, throughout the
complaint, Plaintiff substantively treats LLN and GF as the same entity and
accuses them of the same misconduct. 
There is no reason that Plaintiff should
only be required to arbitrate his claims against LLN, when he treats LLN and GF
as identical and accuses them of identical misconduct. “Having alleged all
defendants acted as agents of one another, [Plaintiff] is bound by the legal
consequences of his allegations.” (Thomas, supra, 204 Cal.App.4th at p.
614.) “[I]t would be unfair to defendants to allow [Plaintiff] to invoke agency
principles when it is to his advantage to do so, but to disavow those same
principles when it is not.” (Id. at p. 615.) “He who takes the benefit
must bear the burden.” (Civ. Code, § 3521.) Therefore, GF may enforce the
arbitration agreement despite being a non-signatory.     
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Green Financial LLC’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
 