 Case Number:  24SMCV00458    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
L.
Kay v. S&S Waterproofing Inc. et al., Case No. 24SMCV00458
Hearing
date July 11, 2024
Defendant
S&S Waterproofing, Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Plaintiff homeowner
sues defendants S&S Waterproofing, Inc., Satey, Broadway Air Conditioning,
Heating and Sheet Metal and Merzel for construction defects, alleging: (1) breach
of third-party beneficiary contract against S&S; (2) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation against S&S and Satey; (3) defective construction against
S&S and Satey; (4) conversion against S&S and Satey; (5) breach of
third-party beneficiary contract against Broadway; (6) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation against Broadway and Merzel; (7) defective construction
against Broadway and Merzel; and (8) conversion against Broadway and Merzel.
Plaintiff
contracted with Fort Hill Construction to provide labor and materials for a remodel.
Id. at ¶ 9. Fort Hill subcontracted with S&S to provide waterproofing;
Satey supervised and controlled S&S’s work. Id. at ¶¶ 10, 12-13.
Plaintiff alleges S&S’s waterproofing work was defective. Id. at ¶
16. Plaintiff alleges S&S represented it did not perform certain work that
it had billed Fort Hill and for which plaintiff paid Fort Hill. Id. at ¶
19.
S&S and
Satey demur to the second and fourth causes of action and move to strike punitive
damages.
A.    Second
Cause of Action: Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
S&S and Satey argue the fraud cause of action has
not been pleaded with the requisite specificity, fails to allege which invoice was
allegedly falsely submitted and improperly conflates defendants without
specifying their respective alleged conduct. Also, they argue the allegations
insufficiently allege they knew the billing representations were false. 
Plaintiff alleges S&S and Satey submitted false
billing invoices that contained misrepresentations regarding the work S&S
performed (Compl. ¶ 36). There is no allegation regarding who made these
alleged misrepresentations, the date of invoices, etc.  
“The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must
allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff
must allege the names of the persons who made the representations, their
authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when the representation was made.” Lazar v. Sup.Ct. (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645. Thus, because the complaint fails to allege the necessary
details of these representations, the fraud claim is not sufficiently alleged. SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.  


B.     Duplication
re: Second and Fourth Causes of Action for Fraud and Conversion
S&S and Satey argue these causes of action are
duplicative of the first cause of action for breach of third-party beneficiary
contract, as they arise from the same facts. 
However, the Court is not persuaded by this argument.  “[I]t
is a waste of time and judicial resources to entertain a motion challenging
part of a pleading on the sole ground of repetitiveness. (See CCP § 3537
[“Superfluity does not vitiate”].) This is the sort of defect that, if it
justifies any judicial intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt with most
economically at trial, or on a dispositive motion such as summary judgment.”  Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890. Further, plaintiff is
entitled to plead in the alternative. OVERRULED. 
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages
S&S and
Satey also moves to the claim for punitive damages. MOOT, as the demurrer was
sustained as to the fraud cause of action. 