  Case Number:  23SMCV02067    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Rahbar v. DW
Investments, LLC, et al., Case No.: 23SMCV02067 
Hearing Date: July
11, 2024 
Defendant Wong’s
Demurrer to Complaint; DW Investments, LLC’s Motion to Strike
 
In this premises liability claim, plaintiff sued
property owner DW Investments and property manager Wong. Wong demurs on the
ground that FAC is untimely filed per the Court’s February 7, 2024 minute order,
fails to state a claim and is uncertain. DW Investments moves to strike the FAC
due to its untimely filing. No opposition has been filed. 
The parties did not meet and confer per CCP
§430.41(a). Wong’s counsel attempted to reach Rahbar’s counsel but did not
receive a response. 
Defendant Wong’s Demurrer
Wong argues that the lawsuit fails to establish any
legal duty he owed to Rahbar or provide sufficient details to establish
proximate cause. The FAC alleges defendants failed to provide safe flooring,
creating a dangerous and hazardous condition. Id. Defendants were aware
of this condition or should have been with reasonable care in time to warn or
caution the plaintiff and correct it. Id. Rahbar alleges Wong, the
property manager, had knowledge of a leak coming from the ceiling near the
stairs in the back of the building to the garage, which was dark and not
properly lit. Despite knowing this, Wong made no attempts to make repairs. Id.
As a result, Rahbar sustained severe
injuries. Id.
The FAC alleges
defendants owed a duty, which they allegedly breached, causing injury. Plaintiff
alleged Wong had notice of the condition, but failed to act. At the pleadings
stage, this is sufficient. DENIED. 
Defendant DW Investment’s Motion to Stike 
DW Investments moves to strike the FAC because it was
filed after the 45-day period allotted by the Court. Per the February 7, 2023
Minute Order, Rahbar was given 45 days to file an amended complaint. The FAC
was filed May 7, 2024. 
Though the FAC was not filed within the time stated in
the minute order, there is no prejudice alleged, nor any other argument other
than failure to file within the time allotted. Amendments may be made at any
time, up to and including the time of trial. DENIED. 
Defendants to file a responsive pleading within 15
days. Parties are advised to adhere to court-imposed deadlines. 