 Case Number:  24SMCV00171    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Gibbs v. Beattie,
et al., Case No. 24SMCV00171
Hearing Date: July
11, 2024
Beattie’s Motion to
Withdrawing Appearance and Answer  -
UNOPPOSED
 
Gibbs alleges
injuries stemming from an automobile accident with defendant Beattie, who was
driving a rented vehicle. Beattie moves for an order withdrawing her appearance
and answer, under CCP 128 and/or section 473(b). No opposition was filed.
 
“The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” Code Civ. Proc., §473(b). Application for this relief shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. Id.  “[T]he court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  Id.
 
Beattie argues her
lawyer mistakenly thought she was one of the insured defendants who were
served. However, Beattie was never served, so counsel had no authority to
respond on her behalf. Per the declaration of counsel, attorney Lake sought to
resolve the issue, but communication with Gibbs’ counsel did not yield a
stipulation. Id. ¶ 4. The motion is unopposed.
 
CCP §473(b) does
not apply; the statute applies to judgments and defaults, not improperly filed
answers. However, as plaintiff has not opposed, the court uses its discretion
to allow defendant to withdraw the improperly filed answer. Plaintiff thereafter
may serve defendant. GRANTED. 
  