  Case Number:  23TRCV00414    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                            Wednesday,
October 2, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 13
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Don
B. Laughton v. City of Redondo Beach, et al.   
23TRCV00414
1.      City of Redondo Beach’s Motion for Summary Judgment
2.      Redondo Beach Unified School District’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            City of Redondo Beach’s (“City”) Motion
for Summary Judgment is denied.  
            Redondo Beach Unified School District’s
(“District”) Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on February 14, 2023. The
operative First Amended Complaint was filed on June 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
the following facts. Plaintiff slipped and fell on property owned or controlled
by Defendants. Plaintiff was walking on the sidewalk when he encountered a bus
stop with many students congregated around it. Plaintiff had to traverse around
the stop and the students onto an area where the sidewalk abuts with a grassy
slope. Plaintiff encountered a height differential which caused him to trip and
fall.
 
Objections
 
Plaintiff’s Objections to the Declaration of Andrew S.
Winje
 
Objections 1 to 2, 4 to 9, and 11 to 16 are overruled.
Objections 3, 10, 17, and 18 are sustained.  
 
Defendant City’s Objections to the Declaration of Mark
J. Burns
 
Objections 1 to 19 are overruled. 
 
Defendant’s City’s Objections to the Declaration of Henry
M. Koffman
 
Objections 1 to 2 are overruled.
 
Motions for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).
 
City of Redondo Beach
 
Defendant City moves for summary judgment as to
Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that Defendant did not have actual or
constructive notice of the alleged defect, and that the condition resulted from
natural forces and not any human activity. 
 
Defendant has met its initial burden to show that one
or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action. CCP § 437c(p)(2). A public entity is
not liable for a dangerous condition of public property unless the public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the condition. Martinez v. City
of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508; Gov. Code 835.2. “A public
entity will be charged with constructive notice of a dangerous condition only
if (1) the dangerous condition existed for a sufficient period of time before
the plaintiff's injury, and (2) it was sufficiently obvious that the entity
acted negligently in not discovering and repairing it.” Martinez v. City of
Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 514. “Because it is the failure to discover and repair an
obvious defect that renders the public entity negligent (and hence potentially
liable for injuries caused by that defect), it becomes relevant whether (1) the
entity had a “reasonably adequate” “inspection system” in place “to inform [it]
whether the property was safe for the use or uses for which [it] used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
knew others were making of the public property” and (2) the entity “operated
such an inspection system with due care” and still “did not discover
the” defect.” Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th
508, 519.
 
Defendant submitted evidence to show that it did not
have actual notice of the alleged dangerous condition. (Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 23-26.) Defendant submitted
evidence to show that it did not have constructive notice of the alleged
condition based on the location of the alleged defect – a portion where the
sidewalk meets the grassy part of adjacent private property, that this defect
would not have been obvious with a reasonable inspection, and that the location
is not typically used for pedestrian use. (Id. at 5-18.) 
 
However, Plaintiff has met his burden to provide
specific facts to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
his cause of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  Plaintiff submitted evidence to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the reasonableness of the
inspection system. First, evidence was provided that the height differential and
the slope that was created was higher than acceptable standards. This
differential should have been discovered by a reasonable inspection according
to Plaintiff’s expert. The fact that the differential was not discovered during
an apparent inspection conducted in January 2018 and during repairs that were
conducted in 2020 shows the existence of a triable issue of fact as to the
reasonableness of the inspection system. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of
Facts and Supporting Evidence, 62-71.)
 
Plaintiff submitted evidence that the defect was of an
obvious nature that a reasonable inspection would have discovered the defect. Plaintiff
presents the following facts to show the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to the obviousness of the defect: the location of the defect
with its close proximity to bus benches that blocked access to the sidewalk
causing pedestrians to traverse along the defect. In addition, Plaintiff
presented evidence that an inspection of the area around the bus stop would be
practical. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 35,
56-74.)
 
Defendant’s arguments in the Reply heavily criticize
the perceived emphasis by Plaintiff on the location of the bus benches.
However, the location of the bus benches is significant based on the fact that
the benches can foreseeably divert pedestrians directly into the path of the
defective height differential and slope. It is not merely the existence of the bus
benches that forms the basis of Plaintiff’s claim but, instead, of course, the
actual defect itself must exist as well. Here, Plaintiff submitted evidence to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the defect itself
and that the defect should have been discovered through a reasonable
inspection. 
 
The case primarily relied upon by Defendant, Martinez
v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, is distinguishable on
the facts namely based on the location of the defect. In Martinez, the
defect occurred in an alley way which may not be typically traversed by
pedestrians. Here, in the instant action, the defect occurred in a location
that could have foreseeably utilized by a pedestrian based on the location of
bus benches (and of course individuals who may be congregating around those
benches) which may cause a pedestrian to divert away from a straight path
through the sidewalk.
 
Finally, Defendant also attempts to argue that it
cannot be liable due to a defect that was simply created by natural forces.
However, Defendant submitted no competent evidence or authority to support this
argument. Defendant’s evidence lacks competency on this point and is simply a
conclusion based on no underlying evidence. 
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Defendant City’s
motion for summary judgment is denied.
 
 
Redondo Beach Unified School District
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant District moves for summary
adjudication against Plaintiff and the City of Redondo Beach on the grounds that
the Complaint and the City’s Cross-Complaint “fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a viable cause of action for money damages, as the District owed no
duty to Plaintiff or City related to their respective causes of action alleged
in their Complaint and Cross-Complaint against District.” (Notice of Motion,
page 1, lines 12-14.) Namely, District argues that the area where Plaintiff
fell was owned, controlled, and maintained solely by the City. A landowner has no right to control or manage premises
held by another. Steinmetz v. Stockton City Chamber of Commerce (1985)
169 Cal. App. 3d 1142, 1147.  District
submitted evidence that Plaintiff fell due to a defect located on a sidewalk
maintained and controlled by the City.  (District’s
Separate Statement of Facts, 4-11.)
 
However, Plaintiff and the City submitted evidence to
meet their burden to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as
to their causes of action. CCP 437c(p)(2). “[A] landowner who exercises control
over an adjoining strip of land has a duty to protect or warn others entering
the adjacent land of a known hazard there. […] This duty arises even if the
person does not own or exercise control over the hazard and even if the person
does not own the abutting property on which the hazard is located.” Contreras
v. Anderson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 188, 197. Here, as noted in the Court’s
ruling to the City’s motion, Plaintiff has identified the specific hazard – the
dangerous height differential in the land abutting the grassy sloping area
owned and controlled by the District and the sidewalk owned by the City. 
 
Evidence was submitted by the opposing parties that free
access was allowed to pedestrians including students and the Plaintiff to
traverse onto the lawn area and back onto the sidewalk. There is no dispute
that the lawn area was owned and controlled by moving party District. Thus, the
opposing parties have identified a duty of care that was owed by the District
to protect and warn of a potential hazard that existed on the land abutting the
property that it controlled. (City’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting
Evidence, 13-17).
 
For example, in Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th
1149, the Plaintiff tripped on a meter box located on municipal party that was
adjacent to private property – the apartment complex where Plaintiff lived. The
California Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeal’s reversal of summary
judgment in favor of the landlord holding that triable issues of fact existed
as to the control over adjacent property and the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff.  Id. at 1154.  In Marsh v. City of Sacramento (1954)
127 Cal.App.2d 721, the Court of Appeal held that both the City and the
adjacent property owned may be held liable after plaintiff fell into a ditch
that abutted the sidewalk.  Similarly, in
the instant action, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the
District had control over the land via its ownership of the grassy slopy
walkway which immediately abutted an alleged dangerous condition. Thus, a
triable issue of fact exists as to whether the District should have warned
Plaintiff of the alleged dangerous condition or remedied the dangerous
condition. (City’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 9-17);
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 25-30; 57-71.)
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, the District’s motion
for summary adjudication is denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.