

 
On July 19, 2023, Sienna Rae Walker
(Plaintiff) filed her Complaint against Defendants Chanel Walker (Chanel) and
Richard A. Walker (Richard) (jointly, Defendants). Plaintiff’s Complaint
alleges a single cause of action for Partition related to the disputed
ownership of the real property comprising of two single family residences and
one commercial property (Properties). 
 
On September 27, 2023, Defendants
filed a Cross-Complaint, alleging two causes of action for Partition and
Accounting related to the disputed ownership of the Properties.
 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff moved
for judgment on the pleadings of her Complaint on her claim for partition; Plaintiff
also seeks the appointment of
referee to effectuate the partition. Defendants opposed the motion. 
 
On March 25, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling
granting interlocutory judgment of partition; however, the Court ultimately continued
the motion for judgment on the pleadings to allow the parties the
opportunity to meet and confer to make efforts to resolve this issue and for
selection of a partition referee.
 
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted on the Complaint for partition.
The Court will order the appointment of _____________ as the partition referee
in this matter. 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moved for interlocutory judgment
on the pleadings of her Complaint on her claim for partition with regard to two
single-family residence and one commercial property: (1.) a single family
residence located at 5 Flying Mane Ln, Rolling Hills, CA 90274 (Flying Mane
Property); (2.) a single family residence located at located at 72 Saddleback
Rd, Rolling Hills, CA 90274 (Saddleback Property); and (3.) a commercial
property located at 125 Victoria St., Carson, CA 90746 (Victoria Property)
(collectively, Properties). Plaintiff also sought the appointment of a referee to effectuate the partition.
 
“ ‘[P]artition’ is ‘the procedure for
segregating and terminating common interests in the same parcel of property.’ ”
(14859 Moorpark Homeowner's Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1404-1405.) It is a “ ‘
“remedy much favored by the law. The original purpose of partition was to
permit cotenants to avoid the inconvenience and dissension arising from sharing
joint possession of land. An additional reason to favor partition is the policy
of facilitating transmission of title, thereby avoiding unreasonable restraints
on the use and enjoyment of property.” ’ ” (Cummings v. Dessel (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 589, 596.)
 
The governing statute for partition
is Code of Civil Procedure section 872.720. Subdivision (a) of this statute declares
that “[i]f the court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition, it
shall make an interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the
parties in the property and orders the partition of the property.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 872.720, subd. (a).) The order of partition “shall order that the
property be divided among the parties in accordance with their interests as
determined in the interlocutory judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.810.)
Section 872.720, subdivision (b), allows the court to issue sequential
interlocutory judgments for original concurrent and successive owners if the
court determines that it “is impracticable or highly inconvenient to make a
single interlocutory judgment that determines, in the first instance, the
interest of all the parties in the property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.720,
subd. (b).)
 
When the trial court “determines
the interests of the parties in the property and orders the partition of the
property,” it shall decide the manner of partition “unless [this] is to be
later determined.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.720, subd. (a).) “The manner of
partition may be ‘in kind’—i.e., physical division of the property [citation]
according to the parties’ interests as determined in the interlocutory
judgment. [Citations.] Alternatively, if the parties agree or the court
concludes it ‘would be more equitable,’ the court may order the property sold
and the proceeds divided among the parties.” (Cummings, supra, 13
Cal.App.5th at p. 597; Code Civ. Proc., § 872.820.)
 
The relevant legal authority for
the appointment of a partition referee is as follows: “The court shall appoint
a referee to divide or sell the property as ordered by the court.” (Code. Civ.
Proc., § 873.010(a).) “The court may: … Instruct the referee [and] Fix the
reasonable compensation for the services of the referee and provide for payment
of the referee’s reasonable expenses….” (Code. Civ. Proc., §
873.010(b)(2)-(3).) “None of the following persons shall be appointed a referee
under this title: (a) A clerk or deputy clerk of the court. (b) A former or
present partner or employee of the judge. (c) A relative within the third
degree of the judge or the judge's spouse or the spouse of such a relative. (d)
An owner of any interest in the property that is the subject of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 873.050.)
 
As Defendants note, despite the use
of the word “shall,” a referee is required under the statute only if the trial
court determines that a referee is necessary or appropriate in the
circumstances. (Richmond v. Dofflemyer (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 745, 755.) Specifically,
Section 873.010 has been “construed to require the appointment of a referee
only where it is determined that a referee is necessary or would be desirable
or helpful and that it should not be so strictly construed as to require the
expense and time-consuming services of a referee where the court has adequate
evidence before it to render its decision. The function of the interlocutory
judgment is to permit the trial court to determine those matters which have
been presented to it for determination, and which it can determine upon the
evidence submitted to it without the necessity of a referee. The only function
of a referee is to assist the court in determining those matters which cannot
be so determined upon the evidence before it.” (Richmond v. Dofflemyer,
supra, 105 Cal.App.3d 745, 755.)
 
Here, Defendants argue a referee is
“premature” because there are “equitable issues to be addressed as to the
Plaintiff’s authority to partition the properties from the outset.” The
opposition continues to maintain that Plaintiff failed to contribute to the
taxes, repair costs, maintenance costs, and improvement costs of the Properties
because Plaintiff knew she was not a true owner of the Properties. (XC ¶¶ 17,
24.)  
 
The Court’s prior tentative
resolved the substantive issues regarding whether partition was proper –
finding that fairness was not a factor under the modern partition laws and
there was no waiver alleged. Thus, the order to meet and confer on whether to
appoint a referee was not an invitation to Defendants to relitigate issues that
were already raised or should have been raised on the motion for judgment on
the pleadings.
 
Defendants also argue that appointment
of the referee is unfair because it would force Defendants to move out of the Properties
in which they reside. As argued in reply, the appointment of a referee does not
force any Defendant to move out; it merely effectuates the partition or sale of
the Properties. That is, “[r]emoval from the properties would only be necessary
if the owners do not cooperate, or if the property is sold to a third party.”
(Reply 3:18-19.)[1]
 
 
Therefore, the Court turns to
whether the appointment of a partition referee is reasonable under the
instructions. Currently, if the properties can be partitioned in kind, then a
referee will be needed to examine the facts relating to how the properties can
best be divided to lead to the highest and best value of the divided properties
to the parties. If partition is by sale, then the referee will be necessary to
market the property. That is, the “Court cannot sell a property on the open
market, nor can it determine the manner of partition, with the facts before it,
as it would require the voluntary cooperation of the Parties to either sign a
listing agreement, or to hire the experts necessary to determine how the
properties may be divided in kind.” (Reply 3:22-25.) 
 
The appointment of a referee can
provide substantial benefits to the court and the parties. A referee can make
recommendations to the court concerning the manner, terms, and conditions of
sale, including whether to conduct a public auction or private sale. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 873.520, 873.610, subd. (b).)[2]

 
As such, the appointment of a
partition referee would be reasonable and “helpful” to the Court under the
circumstances here. Here, these and other benefits of the appointment outweigh
the costs.
 
Thus, the only issue remaining before
the Court is who should be appointed partition referee. 
 
Here, Plaintiff nominates three
potential referees:  Attorneys Matthew L.
Taylor, Amy Harrington, and Richardson Griswold. All potential referees have
indicated they are ready and willing to serve as partition referee, 
 
Attorney
Matthew L. Taylor has been
an attorney since 1995 with a practice in real estate and receiverships. (Taylor
Decl., ¶ 2.) His
resume indicates he has been appointed as a receiver in dozens of cases and appointed
as a partition referee in dozens of cases. (Taylor Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.1.) 
 
Attorney Richardson
Griswold, Esq. has been an attorney since 2006 with a practice in real estate
and receiverships. (Griswold Decl., ¶ 2, Exs. 5-6.) His resume indicates his
appointment as a receiver in dozens of cases and appointment as a partition
referee in dozens of cases. (Griswold Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. 5.)
 
Attorney
Amy Harrington is also well qualified to act as a referee in this case. Attorney
Harrington has been an attorney since 2005; although her main area of practice
is probate, she has been appointed as a referee in over 20 cases – 16 of which have
been since 2022. (Harrington Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. 8.) Additionally, she has
served as a probate referee for the County of San Francisco since 2006.
(Harrington Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
All
candidates are qualified to serve as partition referees. 
 
 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion to
appoint a partition referee is granted. The Court orders the appointment of _______________.[3] 


