

 
             This
action arises from an infantile confrontation between two attorneys in the Mosk
Courthouse hallway. The Complaint alleges that Defendant Fari Bari Nejadpour
(Defendant Nejadpour) “instigated an extremely minor confrontation by
cornering, trapping, detaining and threatening” Plaintiff Larry M. Bakman
(Plaintiff Bakman) and “forcing a cellular telephone” into Plaintiff’s face and
recording Plaintiff's voice without his permission in an attempt to falsely
claim that Defendant was a victim in this confrontation. The Complaint alleges
claims for (1.) false light, (2.) assault, (3.) false imprisonment, and (4.)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
June 13, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nejadpour filed a Cross-Complaint
for (1.) assault, (2.) battery, and (3.) negligence. 
 
On July 12, 2023, Cross-Defendant Bakman moved to strike
portions of the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant
Nejadpour filed an opposition. The Motion to Strike was granted in part
and denied in part.
 
On July 13, 2023, Defendant F. Bari Nejadpour filed a
special motion to strike the entire Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, arguing that the claims arise from petitioning
conduct that is protected under section 425.16, subdivision (e). He further
argued that Plaintiff cannot show any likelihood of success because the claims
are barred by the litigation privilege and Plaintiff does not submit prima
facie evidence to support the claims. The Court granted the special motion to
strike as to the first cause of action only.
 
            Then, on
March 17, 2024, Defendant Nejadpour and Plaintiff
Bakman filed competing motions for attorney fees. 
 
            Plaintiff
Bakman seeks attorney fees in the amount of $10,976.17 as the prevailing party
on the anti-SLAPP motion, arguing Defendant’s motion was frivolous as Plaintiff
prevailed on three of the four causes of action. Defendant opposes this motion.
No reply was filed.
 
            Defendant
Nejadpour seeks
attorney fees in the amount of
$15,946.29, under section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1), arguing he was entitled
to the award as a prevailing defendant on his anti-SLAPP motion. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. A reply was filed. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for attorney fees is denied. Defendant’s motion for attorney fees is
granted in a reduced amount
            
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
Bakman’s Motion for Attorney Fees
 
            Plaintiff Bakman moves for attorney fees pursuant to
Code of Civi1 Procedure sections 425.16, subdivision (c)(1) and 128.5 on the
grounds that Plaintiff was the prevailing party on three of four causes of
action of Defendant's special motion to strike and Defendant’s motion was
frivolous. 
 
In support of this motion, Plaintiff relies on Mann v. Quality Old Time
Service, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 328 (Mann). Specifically, Plaintiff notes that the Mann
court considered various factors to assess whether a defendant’s partially
successful anti-SLAPP resulted in a “prevailing party” determination. Using
this analysis, Plaintiff argues he should be deemed the prevailing party
because the special motion to strike was frivolous, and the results were
minimal and insignificant. Plaintiff misconceives the holding of Mann.
 
The Mann court
reviewed an attorney fees award to the prevailing defendants under the
anti-SLAPP statute where the defendants succeeded in striking one of four
challenged causes of action. (Mann, supra, 139 Cal.App.4th at p.
333.) 
 
The Mann court
explained that “a party who partially prevails on an anti-SLAPP motion must
generally be considered a prevailing party unless the results of the motion
were so insignificant that the party did not achieve any practical benefit from
bringing the motion.” (Mann, supra, 139 Cal.App.4th at 340; see
also Moran v. Endres (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 952, 956 [defendants were
not entitled to fees, where their partial success on their anti-SLAPP motion
“in every practical sense meant nothing”].) 
 
The no-practical-benefit
doctrine recognized in Mann and Moran is a “narrow” exception to
the general rule mandating a fee award to a partially successful defendant. (Morrow
v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1446.)
“Given the express legislative preference for awarding fees to successful
anti-SLAPP defendants, a party need not succeed in striking every challenged
claim to be considered a prevailing party within the meaning of section 425.16.
A contrary conclusion would require a partially prevailing defendant to bear
the entire cost of the anti-SLAPP litigation at the outset of the case. This
would create a strong disincentive for a defendant to bring the motion,
undermining the legislative intent ... to discourage plaintiffs from bringing
meritless SLAPP claims.” (Mann, at 339-340.) “The determination whether
a party prevailed on an anti-SLAPP motion lies within the broad discretion of a
trial court.” (Id. at 340.)
 
            Here,
Defendant Nejadpour prevailed on its anti-SLAPP motion as to one of the four
causes of action challenged – the false light cause of action. Thus, Defendant
achieved a practical benefit. (See e.g., Mann, supra, 139
Cal.App.4th at 340 [trial court acted within its discretion in determining
defendants prevailed on their anti-SLAPP motion despite their failure to
eliminate three of four challenged causes of action, where motion successfully
eliminated cause of action for trade libel, thereby “limiting discovery,
reducing potential recoverable damages, and altering the settlement posture of
the case”]; cf. Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 392 [anti-SLAPP
statute’s “central” purpose is to screen out meritless claims “before the
defendant is required to undergo the expense and intrusion of discovery”].)
Nothing more was required.
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff’s motion equally fails under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5. 
 
Section 425.16 permits the
trial court to award sanctions where “a special motion to strike is frivolous
or is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (c)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (b)(2)
defines frivolous to mean “totally and completely” without merit, or for the
“sole” purpose of harassing the opposing party. (Code Civ. Proc., 128.5, subd.
(b)(2); Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 450 [“Frivolous in this context means that any reasonable
attorney would agree the motion was totally devoid of merit.”].)


Here, Defendant's motion was not “clearly frivolous.” As explained in Gerbosi,
“[w]hen a motion has partial merit, it is not ‘totally and completely’ without
merit, nor can it be said that its ‘sole’ purpose is to harass.” (Gerbosi v.
Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at 450.)


            Plaintiff’s
motion for attorney fees is denied. 
 
Defendant
Nejadpour’s Motion for Attorney Fees
 
            Defendant Nejadpour requests
$15,946.29 in attorney fees and costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1). 
 
            With exceptions not at issue
here, “a prevailing defendant on a special [anti-SLAPP] motion to strike shall
be entitled to recover his or her attorney's fees and costs.” (Civ. Code Proc.,
§ 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) It is well established that “[t]he amount of an
attorney fee award under the anti-SLAPP statute is computed by the trial court
in accordance with the familiar ‘lodestar’ method. [Citation.] Under that
method, the court ‘tabulates the attorney fee touchstone, or lodestar, by
multiplying the number of hours reasonably expended by the reasonable hourly
rate prevailing in the community for similar work. [Citations.]’ ” (Cabral
v. Martins (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 471, 491.)
 
As noted above, Defendant is
the prevailing party on the anti-SLAPP motion and is entitled to fees. However,
these fees must be both reasonable and incurred
because of a pleading containing claims designed to chill the exercise of free
speech and petition rights. (See Maleti v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th
181, 232 [The purpose of the anti-SLAPP attorney fee provision is to “
‘compensat[e] the prevailing defendant for the undue burden of defending
against litigation designed to chill the exercise of free speech and petition
rights.‘ ”].) That is, “when considering a fee award, the trial court is not
required to award the amount sought by the successful moving parties, but
instead ‘is obligated to award ‘reasonable attorney fees under section 425.16
[that] adequately compensate[ ] them for the expense of responding to a
baseless lawsuit.’’ ” (569 East County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against
the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 432 [quoting Jackson v. Yarbray
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 75, 92].)
 
Attorney Silverstein is requesting $300.00 an hour.
(Silverstein Decl., ¶ 6.) He further states that he has spent 38.30 hours and anticipates
expending a total of 49.20 hours in the bringing the anti-SLAPP motion, this fee
motion, and opposing Plaintiff’s fee motion. (Silverstein Decl. ¶12, 23.) Plaintiff
also incurred $236.29 in filing fees and $920 in obtaining audio/videos and
transcripts of audio recording. (Silverstein Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the attorney’s fees
are unreasonable and excessive. Plaintiff contends Defendant should recover no
more than 25 hours in bringing the anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
Hearing on Restraining Order: Defendant requests 1.5 hours to attend a restraining
order hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court Case Nos. 23STRO02621 and
23STRO02678. Defendant argues that these hearing “arise from the same attack at
issue in this litigation.” (Reply 2:7.) Even if true, these fees were unnecessary
to bringing the anti-SLAPP and would have been incurred irrespective of
whether Plaintiff filed his complaint that contained the false light claim. Therefore,
the Court will strike these fees. 
 
Administrative fees: Defendant also has several entries for
administrative tasks, such as the .4 hour July 15, 2023 for “Preparation of
pleadings, obtain and intergrate (sic) signature page. file with court.” For
this task and other tasks that are largely clerical, Defendant should have billed
at a clerical rate. To offset for the improper rate applied, the Court will
reduce these fees by 1.5 hours to account for the clerical nature of these
tasks. 
 
Entries regarding Eman Moshe Zokaeim; Defendant seeks fees related to Eman Moshe Zokaeim
on April 22, 2024, including fees incurred in looking up his phone number and
dialing his phone number. Defendant notes that Eman Moshe Zokaeim was both a witness
and made the video used in the anti-SLAPP. However, the fees were incurred to
draft a declaration that was ultimately not used; thus, it is unclear how this
time was reasonably necessary to the anti-SLAPP 
motion and Defendant has not met his burden of showing its necessity. The
Court reduces fees by .6 hours. 
 
Excessive billing and Partial Success: Plaintiff also challenges several entries as
excessive. The Court notes that Defendant incurred numerous hours for drafting
and researching – including, strangely, research on whether Plaintiff had martial
arts training. Given the pedestrian quality of the anti-SLAPP motion itself and
the partial success of this motion, the Court reduces the time awarded by 15
hours. 
 
Such a reduction is consistent with the holding in Mann, where the court stated
that “[t]he fees awarded to a defendant who was only partially successful on an
anti-SLAPP motion should be commensurate with the extent to which the motion
changed the nature and character of the lawsuit in a practical way [including
evaluation of other] relevant factors, such as the experience and abilities of
the attorney and the novelty and difficulty of the issues ....” (Id. at
p. 345.) The Mann court concluded that the trial “court erred in failing
to reduce the attorney fees award for fees attributable to the causes of action
that remained in the litigation. Although the amount to be awarded could not be
calculated through a purely mechanical approach by allocating particular hours
to particular claims, the court should have considered the significance of the
overall relief obtained by defendants in relation to the hours reasonably
expended on the litigation and whether the expenditure of counsel's time was
reasonable in relation to the success achieved.” (Ibid.) The Mann
court determined that an attorney fees award proportionate to the success
achieved in the anti-SLAPP motion would advance “the objectives of the
anti-SLAPP statute and minimizes abuses.” (Mann, at p. 347.)
 
Attorney fee Motion: Defendant contends he incurred 8.5 hours for both
opposing Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees and the reply brief in support of
Defendant’s motion for fees; he further expects to incur an additional hour for
reply edits and 2 hours to attend the hearing. These hours are excessive.
However, the Court has already reduced these hours in its reduction based on
excessive billing. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court will reduce Defendant’s
hours incurred by 18.6 hours. The Court will award fees in the reduced amount
of $9,360 ($14,940-5,580).
 
            Lastly, Defendant seeks
costs in the amount of $1,156.29. Plaintiff does not contest the costs sought
by Defendant. (Opp. 3:22-23.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees
is denied. Defendant’s motion for attorney fees and costs is granted in a
reduced amount.
 
Plaintiff Bakman is ordered to pay
to Defendant’s counsel the sum of $10,516.29 (9,360+$1,156.29) for attorneys’ fees and costs on or
before July 15, 2024.          
 