  Case Number:  22GDCV00323    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  2 Date: 10/11/2024 Case No:  22 GDCV00323 Trial Date: January 27, 2025 Case Name: Tashchyan v. Stepanyan, et al.   MOTIONS TO QUASH SUBPOENAS (2)Moving Party: Plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan        Responding Party: Defendants Martin Stepanyan D.D.S. and Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center   RELIEF REQUESTED:Order quashing Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and Things of third-party witness Gabriel Tashchyan Order quashing Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and Things of third-party witness Vartan Tashchyan FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan alleges that in May of 2019 plaintiff entered into an oral contract with defendants Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S. and Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center wherein defendants promised to provide dental care and procedures with guaranteed outcomes in exchange for plaintiff’s payment of certain sums of money.  Plaintiff alleges that from May of 2019 plaintiff was under the dental care of defendants, and in August 2019 defendants performed a surgical procedure on plaintiff for extraction of teeth, placement of maxillary implants, placement of implant fixtures, and bone grafting.  In March of 2020, defendants performed further procedures, including uncovering.  Plaintiff alleges that shortly thereafter plaintiff began experiencing problems with the implants, such as ill-fitting implants and pieces that started to loosen and fall out, which caused plaintiff to suffer significant pain.  Plaintiff immediately informed defendant of the issues and asked for help, but defendants were unable to or refused to correct the issues.  Plaintiff alleges that because defendants were not responding to plaintiff’s requests to fix the problems, plaintiff had to seek treatment from another dental surgeon to correct the issues which caused plaintiff to incur additional costs.  The First Amended Complaint alleges that defendants breached the standard of care for dentists and dental surgeons practicing in their community, causing plaintiff injuries and damages, and also breached the contract between the parties. Plaintiff further alleges that he has made repeated requests for his medical records from defendants, but his requests were denied or ignored.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff contacted the Dental Board of California and filed a complaint, as a result of which some documents were finally sent to plaintiff but that the documents were missing important records, such as radiology from before and after the procedure, complete chart notes, surgical notes, and periodontal records prior to the procedure.   Plaintiff alleges that defendants’ failure to make, keep, or provide plaintiff’s complete medical records exacerbated plaintiff’s injury and delayed his ability to get further treatment and mitigate his damages.  It is also alleged that defendants’ refusal to provide complete medical records violates Health & Safety Code section 123100, et seq.  ANALYSIS:Plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan by these motions seeks to quash deposition subpoenas for personal appearance and production of documents and things directed to plaintiff’s adult sons, Gabriel Tashchyan and Vartan Tashchyan. Plaintiff argues that service must be quashed because personal service on the deponent witnesses was not properly effected.  CCP § 2020.220(c) provides, in pertinent part:“(c) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require all of the following of any deponent who is a resident of California at the time of service: (1) Personal attendance and testimony, if the subpoena so specifies.(2)   Any specified production, inspection, testing and sampling....” Relief is sought here under CCP § 1987.1, which provides in pertinent part: “When a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things...at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the witness, or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect the parties, the witness, or the consumer from unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable violations of a witness’ or consumer’s right of privacy.” Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas here were not personally served on Gabriel Tashchyan or Vartan Tashchyan.   Under CCP section 1987(a), “the service of a subpoena is made by delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the witness personally…”   Plaintiff also relies on In re Abrams (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d 685, in which the court of appeal held that the trial court had erred in finding that service on an attorney of a subpoena directing a witness to appear at trial of a civil action was sufficient to confer personal jurisdiction over the witness and support a judgment of conviction for contempt for failure to appear.  The court of appeal noted that “Code of Civil Procedure section 1987 states a subpoena must be served personally,” that Section 1988 provides for service by breaking and entering if a witness is concealing himself, and that “There are no other express statutory exceptions to the requirement of section 1987 of personal service of a subpoena.”  In re Abrams, at 687. The court of appeal in In re Abrams also noted that “service of a subpoena on a witness is an original exercise of jurisdiction” over the witness, and that substituted service of a subpoena on, for example, an attorney, had been found sufficient only where such service had been approved ahead of time by the court, pursuant to a motion requesting such advance approval.   In re Abrams, at 692.   Plaintiff relies on the following language from the opinion, emphasizing the jurisdictional nature of the service of a subpoena on a third-party witness:“California cases have consistently enforced the requirement of strict statutory compliance for all types of constructive and substituted service, even where authorized by statute. Compliance with the statutory conditions for a constructive service is jurisdictional (Sousa v. Freitas, 10 Cal.App.3d 660, 667-668, 89 Cal.Rptr. 485). “No person is compelled to act in a judicial proceeding in which jurisdiction over her person has not been obtained.” (Id., at p. 668, 89 S.Ct. at p. 490, citing Lapham v. Campbell, 61 Cal. 296, 300.) Mere knowledge of the action is not a substitute for service, nor does it raise any estoppel to contest the validity of service (Slaybaugh v. Superior Court, 70 Cal.App.3d 216, 223, 138 Cal.Rptr. 628; Ursino v. Superior Court, 39 Cal.App.3d 611, 617, 114 Cal.Rptr. 404; Stamps v. Superior Court, 14 Cal.App.3d 108, 110, 92 Cal.Rptr. 151; Sternbeck v. Buck, 148 Cal.App.2d 829, 833, 307 P.2d 970; Chaplin v. Superior Court, 81 Cal.App. 367, 253 P. 954).In re Abrams, at 692-693. Plaintiff submits evidence that although the proofs of service of the subpoenas relied upon by defendants indicate that the third-party witness deponents were personally served with the subpoenas, plaintiff and each of his sons have submitted declarations attesting that no personal service was made as represented, but the three sets of papers were handed to plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan.  [See Proof of Service, Notice of Errata, Ex. 10, Stepan Tashchyan Decl., para. 2; Gabriel Tashchyan Decl., para. 2 ; Vartan Tashchyan Decl., para. 2].  Plaintiff has also submitted evidence that although the proof of service states that the process server made the service at 6:45 PM, a log of a video recording system shows that there was no attempted service at this time, but the process server arrived at the home of  plaintiff and the deponents at 11:17 AM, when both deponents were not home since it was a weekday during the day when the deponents each work outside of the home.  [Stepan Tashchyan Declaration, paras. 3, 4, Ex. 3; Gabriel Tashchyan Decl., para.    2; Vartan Tashchyan Decl., para. 2].    Defendants in opposition concede that defendants have since clarified that the process server did not personally serve the deposition subpoenas referenced in the motions to quash.   [See Oppositions, p. 3].   Defendants argue that in response, defendants instructed the process server to attempt service again, ensuring proper execution, and that on September 6, 2024, Gabriel Tashchyan and Vartan Tashchyan were personally served.  The opposition to the motion concerning the Gabriel Tashchyan subpoena is curiously supported by a declaration of counsel which states that “On September 7, 2024, Araxi Tashchyan was personally served with deposition subpoena.”   [Racic Declaration, para. 3].  The declaration does not state that Gabriel was served.  The declaration refers to Exhibit 5, which appears to be a proof of service of deposition subpoena by personal service on Gabriel Tashchyan on September 7, 2024. [Notice of Lodgment Ex. 5].  The opposition to the motion concerning Vartan Tashchyan includes a declaration that Vartan was served on September 6, 2024, and refers to a proof of service of a deposition subpoena personally served on Vartan on September 6, 2024.  [Racic Decl., para. 3, Notice of Lodgment, Ex. 3]   Defendants appear to argue that since they have rectified the improper service from August 6, 2024, they are entitled to depose the third parties and require the production of documents without the protective orders requested in the motions to quash.  Counsel’s declarations state, “This Proof of Service cured the previously improperly served deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of documents and things, that is at issue in the Plaintiff’s motion.”  [Racic Decls., paras. 4].   It appears that what has happened here is that defendants acknowledge that service was improper, and the motions to quash the subpoenas which are the subject of the motions are properly granted, or that those subpoenas have been withdrawn, and are somehow to be replaced by the newly served subpoenas, copies of which have not been submitted with the oppositions along with the proofs of service. The sufficiency of the service which purportedly took place on September 6, 2024 and September 7, 2026, after the motions to quash the original subpoenas were filed on August 30, 2024, is not properly before the court, and neither is the propriety of those unsubmitted subpoenas.  Plaintiff and the deponents are entitled to challenge the sufficiency of that service and the new subpoenas, if appropriate.    The motions to quash accordingly are granted as requested, and at the concession of defendants in the moving papers that service of the subpoenas at issue on August 1, 2024 was ineffective.  With respect to the request for a protective order in the moving papers, as set forth above, “When a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production” of documents or things, there may be a motion brought for relief, including for a protective order.  CCP § 1987.1.  The deponents here are not required to attend or produce documents pursuant to the subpoenas at issue, and so any requests for protective orders are premature.  As argued in the moving papers, where service is ineffective, the court has no personal jurisdiction over the deponents, and so any request for relief from the court cannot be entertained until personal jurisdiction over the third parties has been established.    The motions accordingly are granted on the ground service was not properly made and that the court has no personal jurisdiction over the third parties.  The requests for protective orders are denied without prejudice.The notices of motion request that the court make an order for “sanctions.”  The memoranda of points and authorities briefly argue that under CCP section 2025.420(h), the court, “shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order…”   No legal authority is cited under which sanctions are authorized for successfully making or unsuccessfully opposing a motion to quash a subpoena.  In any case, the request for sanctions is procedurally improper here. CCP § 2023.040 clearly requires that: “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.  The notice of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.” (Emphasis added). Here, the notices of motion do not specify the person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and do not specify the type of sanction, sought, mentioning only “sanctions,” not “monetary,” “evidence” or some other “type” of sanction.  The motions are also not accompanied by declarations setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanctions sought: the declarations make no mention of sanctions, or any amount incurred to pursue the motions. No sanctions are awarded. RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoena and for Protective Order as to Witness Gabriel Tashchyan is GRANTED.  Plaintiff has established, and the opposition has conceded, that the subpoena purportedly served on the witness on August 1, 2024, was not in fact personally served.  [See Proof of Service, Notice of Errata, Ex. 10, Stepan Tashchyan Decl., paras. 2-4, Ex. 3; Gabriel Tashchyan Decl., para. 2; Opposition, p. 3].  Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and Things Issued on July 31, 2024, and purportedly served on Gabriel Tashchyan on August 1, 2024 is QUASHED.  Request for protective order is DENIED as premature, as the witness has not been properly served with a subpoena requiring his attendance or production of documents. Sanctions requested in the moving papers are DENIED. Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoena and for Protective Order as to Witness Vartan Tashchyan is GRANTED.  Plaintiff has established, and the opposition has conceded, that the subpoena purportedly served on the witness on August 1, 2024, was not in fact personally served.   [See Proof of Service, Notice of Errata, Ex. 10, Stepan Tashchyan Decl., paras. 2-4, Ex. 3; Vartan Tashchyan Decl., para. 2; Opposition, p. 3].  Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and Things Issued on July 31, 2024 and purportedly served on Vartan Tashchyan on  August 1, 2024 is QUASHED.  Request for protective order is DENIED as premature, as the witness has not been properly served with a subpoena requiring his attendance or production of documents. Sanctions requested in the moving papers are DENIED. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 