 Case Number:  22STCV21242    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21242




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Phillip
  Tirman, M.D., Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Vanessa Jung Tirman, Estate of Jonathan Dongin Jung,
Jung Sik Jung, and Insoon Jung filed a complaint against Defendant The Bicycle
Casino, Inc. for the wrongful death of Decedent Jonathan Dongin Jung
(“Decedent”). Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s security guards attacked
Decedent and caused his death.¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff
Sik Jung propounded Request for Identification and Production of
Documents, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set Two, Request for Admission,
Set Two, and Form Interrogatories, Set One to Defendant The Bicycle Casino, LP
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff Vanessa Jung propounded Request for Admission, Set Two
and Form Interrogatories, Set One against Defendant. The discovery was
propounded on December 13, 2023. 
 
Defendant now moves for a protective order that it is not required to
respond to the above discovery. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs
oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
When interrogatories,
demands for documents, or requests for admissions have been propounded, the
responding party, and any other party or affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2030.090(a), 2031.060(a), 
 
The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include,
but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: that the set of
interrogatories, or particular  interrogatories
in the set, need not be answered, that all or some of the items or categories
of items in the demand need not be produced or made available at all, or that
the set of admission requests, or particular requests in the set, need not be
answered at all. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.090(b), 2031.060(b), 2033.080(b).) The party
seeking the protective order has the burden to show that good cause exists to
grant the protective order. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
“ ‘Oppression’
means the ultimate effect of the burden of responding to the discovery is ‘incommensurate
with the result sought.’ [Citation.] In considering whether the discovery is
unduly burdensome or expensive, the court takes into account ‘the needs of the
case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in
the litigation.’ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2019.030(a)(2).)” (People ex rel. Harris
v. Sarpas (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1552.) 
 
However, if
the responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of
specially prepared interrogatories are unwarranted, the propounding party shall
have the burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.040(b).)
 
If the motion for a
protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the
party provide or permit the discovery against which protection was sought on
terms and conditions that are just. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.090(c),
2031.060(g), 2033.080(c).) 
 
The court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for
a protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.090(d),
2031.060(h), 2033.080(d).)
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The declaration of Christoffer
Gaddini states that after receiving the discovery, he sent a letter to
Plaintiffs. (Gaddini Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) Plaintiffs refused to withdraw the
discovery and asked Defendant to provide a list of questions that were
duplicative. (Id. ¶ 11, Exh. 4.) Defendant responded with a final letter on
January 15, 2024, arguing that Plaintiffs have the burden to justify the number
of additional interrogatories. (Id. ¶ 12, Exh. 5.) The parties have not
sufficiently met and conferred. However, in the interest of efficiency, the
Court addresses the merits of this motion and admonishes counsel to properly
meet and confer prior to filing any further motions.
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, contrary to
Plaintiffs’ argument, the Court finds this motion is timely, seeing as discovery
was propounded on December 13, 2023, and the parties attempted to meet and
confer until January 15, 2023 when Defendant sent its final letter. Therefore, since
this motion was filed February 1, 2024, it appears prompt.  
 
Defendant asserts that from August 2, 2022 to April 28,
2023, Plaintiffs have served the following on Defendant: 10 Requests for
Admissions, 56 Requests for Production, 20 Special Interrogatories, and
Supplemental Requests for Interrogatories and Production of Documents. (Gaddini
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant argues that on December 13, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded 241 discovery requests which are excessive, unduly burdensome, and
intended to harass. (Motion, 3.) 
 
The discovery at issue consists of the following from Plaintiff Sik Jung:
Request for Identification and Production of Documents, Set Two (numbers
13–67), Special Interrogatories, Set Two (numbers 16–137), Request for
Admission, Set One (numbers 1–35), and Form Interrogatories, Set One.  The
discovery at issue from Vanessa Jung consists of Request for Admission,
Set Two (numbers 11–17) and Form Interrogatories, Set One (number 17.1 only). (Gaddini
Decl., Exh. 2.) 
 
Defendant’s counsel estimates it will take 175 hours to gather
documents and respond to the new discovery. Counsel estimates an additional 20
hours will be required to ascertain which documents have already been produced
and 30 hours to draft responses. (Id. ¶ 5.) In response to Defendant’s meet and
confer letter, Plaintiffs’ counsel invited Defendant to provide a list of
requests which are duplicative. Defendant did not provide a list. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has not
shown good cause since the discovery requests are relevant. 
 
As an initial matter, it is undisputed that Plaintiff
Vanessa Tirman is deceased, yet discovery was served on her behalf after her
death. Plaintiffs provide no reason why discovery propounded on her behalf
should be answered, especially considering that the operative complaint (third
amended complaint filed January 29, 2024), shows she is no longer a named
party. Therefore, the motion for protective order is granted as to discovery
propounded by Vanessa Tirman. 
 
As for the Special Interrogatories, Set Two
(numbers 16–137) propounded by Plaintiff Sik Jung, a declaration under section
2030.040 was provided for exceeding the thirty-five number limit. Parties are limited to propounding 35
special interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.030.) Since Defendant
seeks a protective order, Plaintiffs have the burden to justify the additional
discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.040(b).) Plaintiffs’ opposition argues instead that the discovery
is relevant to the issues in the case and does not appear to address section
2030.040(b). (Opp., 13–14.) Therefore, Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden.
Accordingly, the protective order is granted as to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 36–137. 
 
For the remaining discovery
propounded by Sik Jung,[1]
Defendant has the burden to show good cause. In support, Defendant primarily
asserts past discovery abuses by Plaintiffs such as not providing
verifications. Defendant also points to Requests for Production and Special
Interrogatory which purportedly are duplicative of previous requests. (Motion,
11–12.) Defendant contends “[t]hese are just a few, of the many, examples of
the repetitiveness and duplication of Plaintiffs’ discovery requests.” (Id. at
12.) However, Defendant has failed to show good cause since it has not
described in detail which requests are duplicative. Additionally, Defendant
provides no basis for the estimate that it would take 75 hours to review
documents in response to the Request for Production or 50 hours to respond to
Request for Admissions, Set Two. Therefore, the motion for protective order as
to the remaining discovery is denied. 
 
Both parties seek monetary sanctions. Monetary sanctions
are warranted as to both parties, but because the Court would award sanctions
in equal amounts, the Court declines to impose sanctions. The Court admonishes
counsel to meet and confer and attempt to resolve their issues before filing
further discovery motions.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
a protective order is granted in part and denied in part. Request for
Admission, Set Two and Form Interrogatories, Set One propounded by Vanessa Jung
Tirman and Special Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 36–137, propounded by Sik
Jung, do not need to be answered by Defendant. 
 
            The motion
for a protective order surrounding the remaining discovery is denied. 
 
            The Court
further notes that a motion for protective order is scheduled for June 3, 2024.
In light of the trial preference in this case, any counsel that files a motion
to be heard after the trial date must concurrently seek permission from the
Court to advance any hearing date, otherwise, the motion will not be heard
prior to trial.
 
Counsel for Defendant shall give notice and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 
 


