  Case Number:  21STCV32388    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV32388




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Allstate Building and Office
  Maintenance, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 1, 2021, Plaintiff Maya Sebastian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants First Church of the Nazarene of Pasadena, Sunrise Preschool,
and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability after an alleged slip
and fall. 
 
On
June 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting Allstate
Building and Office Maintenance, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On
August 25, 2023, Defendant First Church of the Nazarene of Pasadena,
individually and dba Sunrise Preschool, filed a cross complaint against Allstate
Building and Office Maintenance, Inc. and Roes 1 to 50 for implied contractual
indemnification, equitable indemnification, and declaratory relief. 
 
On September 20, 2023, Allstate Building and Office Maintenance, Inc.
(“Allstate”) answered the cross complaint. 
 
             Allstate now moves for leave to file a cross
complaint against First Church of the Nazarene of Pasadena, individually and
dba Sunrise Preschool, for indemnity and declaratory relief. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or cross
complaint may file a cross complaint setting forth “(a) Any cause of action he
has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint
against him” or “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.10.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff alleges that she slipped
in a bathroom on liquid caused by a mounted air freshener. Allstate contracted
with Sunrise Preschool for maintenance and cleaning but assigned the contract
to another party. The assignees deny installing or maintaining the air
freshener.   Allstate alleges that Sunrise Preschool was
aware of the air freshener and is liable. Since the cross-complaint is based on
the incident underlying this case, it results out of the same occurrence.
Therefore, the Court finds the interests of justice would be served by allowing
Allstate to file the cross complaint. 
 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant Allstate Building and
Office Maintenance, Inc.’s motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint. Allstate is ordered to file and serve its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10)
days of the date of this Order.
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 