  Case Number:  21VECV00527    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  T 21VECV00527 TURQUOISE
MARTIN vs APARTMENT MANAGEMENT
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Apartment Management Consultants, LLC,
and Sandra McMurray’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Dismiss the
Representative PAGA Claim is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.
The request to compel arbitration
is GRANTED only as to Plaintiff Turquoise Martin’s individual PAGA claims.  The individual PAGA claims are ordered STAYED
pending arbitration.  The request to
dismiss or stay the non-individual PAGA claims is DENIED.  
Defendants Apartment Management
Consultants, LLC and Sandra McMurray’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED
but not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Plaintiff Turquoise Martin’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but only as to the existence of Exhibits
A-D and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute; and GRANTED as to Exhibit E.
Introduction 
Defendants Apartment Management
Consultants, LLC (AMC) and Sandra McMurray (McMurray) (collectively,
Defendants) moved to compel arbitration of Plaintiff Turquoise Martin’s
(Plaintiff) individual Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) claims and moved to
dismiss Plaintiff’s non-individual PAGA claims in the Complaint.  The motion, opposition, and reply were filed
prior to the July 17, 2023 publication of Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 (Adolph).  After
Adolph’s publication, the instant action’s stay was lifted and the parties
filed supplemental briefs to address the Adolph case.  An additional issue raised in the
supplemental briefs is whether Plaintiff’s non-individual PAGA claims should be
stayed or not.  
Discussion  
Trial courts must decide first
whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and
then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within
the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  AMC submitted an arbitration agreement
entered by AMC and Plaintiff and signed by Plaintiff.  (Maria Carrillo (Carrillo) Decl. par., 3,
Exh. 1.)  AMC sufficiently presented
evidence as to the existence of the arbitration agreement.  McMurray argued that she is covered under the
AMC-Plaintiff arbitration agreement because of the alleged agency relationship
between AMC and McMurray.  (Compl. par.
4.)  Plaintiff did not dispute this
issue.  McMurray also sufficiently argued
her rights to enforce the arbitration agreement.  Plaintiff’s claims for Labor Code
violations/PAGA claims are shown to be covered under the arbitration agreement
because the scope of the arbitration agreement included “any controversy or
claim arising out of or relating to Employee’s [Plaintiff’s] employment with
AMC” and further included “all claims under the California Labor Code,
including, but not limited to claims for overtime, unpaid wages, and claims
involving meal and rest breaks.” 
(Carrillo Decl., Exh. 1, Introductory paragraph and par. 1.)  Because Defendants submitted the existence of
an arbitration agreement and showed that Plaintiff’s claims are covered under
the arbitration agreement, Defendants met their initial burden on the
motion.  The burden then shifts to
Plaintiff to dispute the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff argued that the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
Plaintiff asserted that she did not have a meaningful opportunity to
negotiate or reject the arbitration agreement and/or the agreement is a contract
of adhesion because: (1) Defendants made her sign the agreement on the same day
Plaintiff started her employment; (2) there was no review of the arbitration
agreement with Defendants; (3) Plaintiff 
did not understand the arbitration agreement; and (4) Plaintiff was not
provided a copy of the arbitration rules or a link to the rules.  However, all of these alleged facts are not
supported by any admissible evidence. 
Plaintiff did not submit her own declaration to attest to these alleged
facts.  Without any admissible evidence
to support these contentions, there are insufficient facts presented to meet
Plaintiff’s burden to dispute the arbitration agreement. 
Even if Plaintiff would have
submitted her declaration to attest to the above facts, Plaintiff’s claim of
not understanding the arbitration agreement is disputed by the express terms of
the arbitration agreement where Plaintiff expressly agreed that she read and
understood the terms of the agreement. 
The term is placed above Plaintiff’s signature line, is bolded, and is
capitalized.  Despite Plaintiff’s
argument that she was not given a copy of the arbitration rules or provided a
link to the arbitration rules, the express terms of the arbitration agreement
state that Plaintiff was directed to www.adr.org/Rules in order to obtain the
rules of the American Arbitration Association. 
(Carrillo Decl., Exh. 1, Introductory paragraph.)  The remaining arguments to show
unconscionability are that the contract is a contract of adhesion and the
differing signature date of Defendants’ HR Manager, Maria Carrillo.  However, courts do not recognize that
“adhesive” arbitration agreement establish a high degree of procedural
unconscionability.  (Baltazar v. Forever
21 Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) 
At most, these facts would show some procedural unconscionability but
are insufficient to show any substantive unconscionability. Both components of
unconscionability need not be present in the same degree and are determined on
a sliding scale. (Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 114; Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)  Because
Plaintiff only presented some procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff was
required to show a greater amount of substantive unconscionability.  Because there was no showing of substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff failed to meet her burden on the defense of
unconscionability and the argument is unpersuasive to deny the motion to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims.
The parties placed into issue a
pre-dispute non-individual PAGA waiver found within the arbitration agreement
(Carrillo Decl., Exh. 1, par. 3.)  A
pre-dispute categorical waiver of the right to bring a PAGA action is
unenforceable.   (Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 382–383.)  The Court does not find that the pre-dispute
non-individual PAGA waiver to be enforceable and severs the provision in
accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement.
The motion to compel arbitration
and stay the action solely as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims is
GRANTED.  
As to Plaintiff’s non-individual
PAGA claims, the Court sought additional briefing from the parties to address Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 (Adolph).  Plaintiff requested the non-individual PAGA
claims not be stayed and Defendants requested the claims to be stayed.   Standing to continue to prosecute the
non-individual PAGA claims is not disputed. 
Defendant argued that a stay of the non-individual PAGA claims is
required because of the overlapping issues as to whether Plaintiff is an
aggrieved employee.  The argument does
not take into consideration of the possibility of the arbitration process being
slow or settlement prior to an arbitration award being issued.  The event of a settlement of the individual
PAGA claims would result in the Court wasting time and not obtaining any
determination as to “aggrieved employee” status.  The staying of the non-individual PAGA claims
also goes against the reasons for the Legislature's enactment of PAGA –
widespread Labor Code violations and significant underenforcement.  (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1116.)  In order to fulfill the policy reasons in
enacting PAGA, the Court finds that a stay of the non-individual PAGA claims to
be unwarranted.
The request to dismiss or stay
the non-individual PAGA claims is DENIED. 

IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK OF THE
COURT TO GIVE NOTICE.