  Case Number:  24PSCP00258    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
VERIFIED
PETITION FOR RELIEF FROM SUPERMAJORITY VOTING REQUIREMENTS TO AMEND THE
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS AND RESTRICTION is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On June 3,
2024, Petitioner MONTECITO MAINTENANCE CORPORATION, a California nonprofit
benefit corporation filed its petition for an order reducing the percentage of
affirmative votes necessary to amend its covenants, conditions and restrictions
(CC&Rs) pursuant to Civil Code Section 4275.
 
On June 4, 2024,
Petitioner filed its brief regarding the petition.
 
On June 11,
2024, the court granted Petitioner's Ex Parte Application for Order Setting
Matter for Hearing and Specifying Notice and Filing Requirements.
 
On July 11,
2024, Petitioner filed a ‘DECLARATION OF HEATHER PANEK REGARDING NOTICE
PROVIDED TO MEMBERS.’
 
Legal
Standard
 
The petition
is governed by Civil Code section 4275. The statute provides, in pertinent
part, that if a declaration for a residential
common interest development requires more than 50% of the votes in the
association in a single-class voting structure, the association may petition
the superior court of the county in which the development is located for an
order reducing the percentage necessary for an amendment. The petition, amongst
other requirements, must contain “a short explanation of the reason for the
amendment.” (Civ. Code §4275(c)(4).) Upon filing of the petition, the court may
grant the petition if, amongst other mandatory requirements, “[t]he amendment
is reasonable” and “[a] reasonably diligent effort was made to permit all
eligible members to vote.” (Id. at (b)(3-4).)
 
Discussion
 
The petition complies with all the statute’s requirements. (See Petition
pp. 3-5.) Of import, regarding diligent efforts to permit all eligible voters
to vote on the proposed amendment, a meeting to tabulate votes was first noticed for June 14,
2023, and secret ballots were mailed to the members at least 30 days prior to
that date. The meeting was continued five times to December 6, 2023 to give
members additional time to submit ballots; additional notices were mailed to
the membership to encourage the return of ballots. (Verified Petition ¶9.) At the time the voting was conducted, all members
were eligible to vote. Of the 68 members eligible to vote, 39 voted in favor of
the Proposed Amendments (57%), 9 voted against the Proposed Amendments (13%),
and the remainder (of 20) failed to cast a vote. (¶10.) Accordingly, the association is short of the
requisite approval of 67% of its members. As for why the Amendments are
necessary, Petition states that they are “reasonable in that they will simplify
the Declaration, when possible, and removes outdated provisions originally
incorporated by the Declarant almost 28 years ago, The Proposed Amendments will
also be in compliance with the latest revisions to the California Civil Code.” (¶13.)
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, as there are no defects with the Petition, the Petition is granted.  