 Case Number:  19STCV45161    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant Xue Zhe Jin’s Motion for
Protective Order and to Quash Subpoenas is GRANTED,  and
the subpoenas are quashed. Sanctions are awarded against Plaintiff and his
counsel in the amount of $830.
Defendant
to provide notice. 
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A party may bring a motion under this section.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
 
A court may also, for good cause shown, and
at the request of any deponent or “any affected natural person or
organization,” make an order to protect any person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense resulting from a
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (a), (b).) 
 
Defendant Xue Zhe Jin moves for
a protective order or to quash two subpoenas issued by Plaintiff Brandon
Joaquin Rodarte Ayala (Plaintiff) to Defendant’s insurer, Alliance United
Insurance Company (AUI) and its employee, Larry Harrison. The subpoena directed
to AUI itself sought the deposition of its person most qualified and production
of numerous documents. (Mallory Decl. Exh. E.) The documents sought included
all documents related to Defendant, Plaintiff’s counsel, the parties’
respective claim files, investigations of the subject accident, AUI’s court
actions since the accident, documents related to Larry Harrison (AUI’s
litigation specialist), communications with the parties and their counsel. The
categories of examination included similar matters, but also sought examination
concerning AUI’s handling of demand letters and counter-offers in general, as
well as the claim and release propounded in response to the subject accident. (Mallory
Decl. Exh. E.)
The other subpoena was directed
to AUI litigation specialist Larry Harrison. (Mallory Decl. Exh. F.) This
subpoena too sought all documents related to the parties and their respective
claim files, as well as all documents related to any investigations conducted
in response to any submission by Defendant since the subject accident, and
indeed any submission by AUI itself in that time. (Ibid.) The subpoena
also seeks correspondence between Harrison and Defendant, or Harrison and AUI,
related to Plaintiff, or Plaintiff’s counsel. (Ibid.)
Defendant notes that these same subpoenas were
previously served in January 2023, and were the subject of another motion for
protective order heard on September 5, 2023. This motion differs solely in the
respect that, after Defendant filed the first motion for protective order,
Plaintiff unilaterally re-issued the same subpoenas in May 2023. (Mallory Decl.
¶¶ 13–14, 16, Exhs. E, F.)
 
Defendant argues that the requests contained in
these subpoenas are overbroad, in that they seek documents from claims other
than the one in the case at issue, and for other types of coverage. (Motion at
p. 7.) Additionally, they are likely to intrude upon privileged, private, and
protected matters. (Motion at pp. 7–9.) Defendant cites authority for the
following proposition: 
 
When an insurer retains counsel
to defend its insured, a tripartite attorney-client relationship arises among
the insurer, insured, and counsel. As a consequence, confidential
communications between either the insurer or the insured and counsel are
protected by the attorney-client privilege, and both the insurer and insured
are holders of the privilege. In
addition, counsel's work product does not lose its protection when it is
transmitted to the insurer.
 
(Bank of America, N.A. v.
Superior Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1083.) Defendant also cites
authority for the proposition that statements made by the insure to their
insured “after the accident” are “protected by the attorne-client privilege.” (Soltani-Rastegar
v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424, 428.) 
Plaintiff in opposition argues
that the information sought is relevant to “reveal whether [Defendant] Jin was
within the scope of his employment [during the collision] and whether AUI
committed fraud by providing a late affidavit [of no other insurance].”
(Opposition at p. 7.) Plaintiff further argues that Defendant has failed to
support contentions of the existence of privileged information, and has not
presented a privilege log to allow Plaintiff to verify claims of privilege.
(Opposition at p. 7.)
The subpoenas to AUI and Larry
Harrison are properly quashed in their entirety. They are overbroad in scope
upon their own terms, and vastly exceed the scope of Plaintiff’s fraud and
contractual contentions Internal documents related to AUI’s subjective,
unexpressed intent regarding Plaintiff’s settlement demand would shed no light
on Defendant’s contract defense, since “[c]ontract formation
is governed
by objective manifestations, not subjective intent
of any individual
involved. The test is what the outward
manifestations of consent would lead a reasonable person to believe.” (Rael
v. Davis (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1608, 1618 fn. 11.) Nor are any such
documents relevant to Plaintiff’s defense of fraudulent inducement, as the
alleged misrepresentation that forms the basis for Plaintiff’s claim was not
one upon which Plaintiff ever claims to have relied. (Motion at pp. 4–5.) 
The subpoenas seek the entire
claim file of Defendant, not merely documents related to the claim at issue,
and seek documents related, not just to AUI’s investigation of the collision
here, but those related to any investigation from the date of the accident to
the present. The categories of examination seek not only deposition on subjects
related to the present claim, but also AUI’s claims handling and litigation
policies more generally. Nor are any exceptions made for privileged materials,
such as correspondence between the insurer or insured and counsel, memoranda
prepared by counsel, or communications made by the insured to the insurer
following the accident, as provided in the authority discussed above.
The motions are therefore
GRANTED.
II.               
SANCTIONS
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for
a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).)
Defendant seeks $1,330.00 in
sanctions, representing five hours of attorney work at $250 per hour, plus $80
in filing fees and expenses. (Mallory Decl. ¶¶ 18–20.) Sanctions are
awarded against Plaintiff and his counsel in the amount of $830.