 Case Number:  20STCV11815    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  61 Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. (“CCP”) section 284
states that “[t]he attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed
at any time before or after judgment or final determination” upon either
consent of both client and attorney, or upon the order of the court under
application of either the client of the attorney, after notice from one to the
other. Cal. Rule of Court 3.1362 states the requirements for a motion to be
relieved as counsel under CCP section 284. No memorandum is required, but the
motion must be accompanied by (1) a declaration stating why a motion has been
brought instead of filing a consent (without compromising attorney-client
confidentiality), (2) proof of service of the motion, and (3) all hearing dates
scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if know.
Additionally, “[t]he proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the
Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053)
and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers.”
 
The present motion pertains to attorney
Gerald S. Ohn, of the Law Offices of Gerald S. Ohn, APC, counsel for Plaintiffs
Stephanie Greene and Nathan Tatsui. Ohn declares that Plaintiffs have not
consented to the execution of a substitution of attorney form, and further
states that withdrawal from the representation is permitted under Rule 1.16,
subd. (b)(4) and (10) of the Rules of Professional Conduct, which respectively
cover circumstances where the client “renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation,” .and where a tribunal finds other good cause
supporting the withdrawal. (RPC Rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4), (10).) The motion
includes a declaration, proof of service, and proposed order with the ensuing
hearing dates. 
 
Plaintiff Greene, however, has filed an
objection to the motion, stating that she believed Ohn would represent her
“until the very end” of this case, and further that Ohn has not explained the
upcoming November 1, 2023 hearing date on Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs.
 
Judgment has already been entered in this
case. At present the only hearing on calendar beyond the present motion is one
filed on Plaintiff’s behalf for a motion to tax costs, scheduled for November
1, 2023. A motion for attorney fees has been reserved for October 16, 2023, but
no such motion has yet been filed. These motions thus may have a significant
financial impact on Plaintiffs, but are likely to involve objections and
arguments based on the moving papers alone, without the necessity of
substantial contributions by Plaintiffs themselves. Ohn has not gone into
detail concerning the basis for his withdrawal, and Plaintiff has stated her
wish that he continue to represent her.
 
As stated in Ohn’s declaration, an in-camera
hearing will be conducted on the date of the hearing regarding the basis of the
request to withdraw. 