 Case Number:  23STCV22167    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Gori Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay Action
Defendants
Gori Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim move to compel arbitration of
this action by plaintiff Patrick Yi.
Unconscionability
Unconscionability requires both procedural and substantive
unconscionability using a sliding scale. 
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 185.)  “Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  “Generally,
the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to show an arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.”  (Saheli
v. White Memorial Medical Center (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.)
A. Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff shows, at most, minimal procedural unconscionability.  “ ‘Arbitration contracts imposed as a
condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v. Kozak (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).) 
“By itself, however, adhesion establishes only a ‘low’ degree of
procedural unconscionability.”  (Id.
at p. 907.)  Plaintiff states the
contract “was presented to me without any opportunity for negotiation.  I had no chance to discuss or modify the terms
of the agreement, and it was presented to me as a non-negotiable condition.”  (Yi Decl., ¶ 2.)  But plaintiff does not answer a key question:
a non-negotiable condition of what? 
The agreement containing the arbitration provision is a “Stock
Restriction Agreement,” not an employment agreement.  (Yi Decl., ¶ 2; Kim Decl., Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges, “In January
2022, Plaintiff joined Gori as a co-founder and assumed the role of CTO.”  (Comp., ¶ 19.)  It further alleges, “In July 2022, Plaintiff
was presented with a Stock Restriction Agreement.”  (¶ 23.) 
Plaintiff thus had worked for Gori Company, LLC as a high-ranking
officer for months before being presented with or signing the arbitration
agreement.  He presents no evidence he
was required to sign it as a condition of employment.
Plaintiff also argues the agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because it does not include a copy of the AAA rules.  Any resulting procedural unconscionability “depends
in some manner on the substantive unfairness of a term or terms contained within
… the rules applicable to the dispute.” 
(Davis, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 909.)  Plaintiff does not identify any substantively
unfair terms in AAA’s rules. 
B. Substantive Unconscionability
Assuming plaintiff establishes any procedural unconscionability, he shows
at most a single substantively unconscionable provision.  He argues only the provision requiring
arbitration to be conducted in Santa Clara County is substantively
unconscionable because he lives in Orange County.  (Opp., p. 7.) 
He relies on the following authority: “Forced arbitration at a location
in Northern California for an employee living in Southern California would be
unreasonable, and unanticipated.  ‘Substantive
unconscionability may be shown if the disputed contract provision falls outside
the nondrafting party’s reasonable expectations.’ ”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1247 (Murrey).)  Though it quotes
authority about substantive unconscionability, this portion of Murrey appears
in its section about procedural unconscionability.  (Ibid.)  
Assuming this provision is substantively unconscionable, it would be
severable.  “The strong legislative and judicial preference is to sever the
offending term and enforce the balance of the agreement” unless the agreement
is “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 453, internal
quotes, citations, and alterations omitted.) 
This agreement is not permeated by unconscionability.  It has no more than one unconscionable
provision.  Moreover, defendants have
agreed to waive that provision.  Their reply
brief states, “[I]f this is an inconvenience to Yi, Gori hereby stipulates that
the arbitration may take place in Orange County.”  (Reply, p. 8.)  
Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (EFAA)
            Plaintiff argues the EFAA prohibits
enforcing the arbitration agreement in this action.  The EFAA “voids predispute arbitration
clauses in cases … involving sexual harassment allegations.”  (Murrey, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 1230.)  Defendants
argue the EFAA does not apply for two reasons. 

A. Does the EFAA Only
Apply to Arbitrations Under the FAA?
First, defendants
contend the EFAA only applies to arbitrations under the Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA), not the California Arbitration Act (CAA).  The EFAA amends the FAA.  (See Murrey, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1234 [EFAA “added two sections to the FAA”].)  “The FAA governs arbitration provisions in contracts
that involve interstate commerce.  …  When the FAA applies, it preempts any
contrary state law and is binding on state as well as federal courts.”  (Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263 (Mastick).) 
“Nevertheless, contracting parties may agree that the FAA will not
govern their arbitration even if the contract involves interstate commerce.”  (Ibid.)
The
parties’ agreement necessarily involves interstate commerce because it is “by
and between Gori Company, a Delaware corporation” and California resident
Patrick Yi and concerns “the Plan of Conversion by which the Company converted
from Gori Company, LLC, California limited liability company, to Gori Company,
a Delaware corporation.”  (Kim Decl., Ex.
1, p. 1.)  The agreement does, however,
provide for “binding arbitration under the arbitration rules set forth in California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1280 through 1294.2, including section 1283.05
(the ‘Rules’) and pursuant to California law.” 
(Kim Decl., Ex. 1, § 7.L(1).)  
Defendants
provide no authority that the EFAA cannot apply when the parties agree to
arbitrate under the CAA instead of the FAA. 
Defendants cite only a practice guide for that proposition.  (Reply, p. 2, citing Rutter Guide.)
The text
of the EFAA does not support that conclusion. 
It provides, “Notwithstanding any other provision of this title [the
FAA], at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual
harassment dispute …,  no predispute
arbitration agreement … shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case
which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual
assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”  (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  Rather than applying in conjunction with the
FAA, the EFAA is an exception to the FAA. 
It applies “[n]otwithstanding” the FAA. 
Moreover, it broadly provides that “no predispute arbitration agreement
… shall be valid or enforceable” rather than prohibiting enforcement only of
agreements providing for arbitration under the FAA.  
Defendants’
reliance on Mastick is misplaced. 
There, the court addressed a specific provision of the CAA: “When the
parties have agreed to be governed by California law, section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) does not conflict with the FAA or frustrate its objectives.  The FAA simply requires courts to enforce
arbitration provisions in accordance with the terms in the agreement.”  (209 Cal.App.4th at p. 1264.)  As the court noted, the California Supreme
Court had already held “the procedural provisions of the FAA and section 1281.2
do not conflict.”  (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 390 (Cronus).)
Here, the
potential conflict is not merely procedural. 
And, unlike Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c), allowing the
parties’ contract to preclude plaintiff from invoking the EFAA would constitute
“ ‘ “an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and
objectives of Congress.” ’ ”  (Cronus,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 385, quoting Volt Information Sciences, Inc. v.
Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University (1989) 489 U.S. 468,
477.)  Congress’s purpose and objective
in enacting the EFAA was to permit plaintiffs who allege sexual harassment to avoid
enforcement of their otherwise binding agreements.  Holding him to that agreement directly
obstructs that purpose.    
B. Does the Complaint
Allege a Valid Sexual Harassment Claim?
Defendants
also argue the EFAA does not apply because plaintiff’s complaint does not
allege a “plausible” sexual harassment claim. 
(See Yost v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 563,
588.)  This argument relies on the
plausibility standard for pleading under the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.  (See Ashcroft v. Iqbal (2009) 556 U.S.
662, 678.)  California civil procedure
has no plausibility requirement for complaints. 
California courts must accept factual allegations as true regardless of their
plausibility.  (Hacker v. Homeward
Residential, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [on demurrer, “the
facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they
may be”].)
Defendants make a
colorable argument on whether plaintiff’s factual allegations suffice to
constitute a cause of action for sexual harassment.  But that issue is not properly before the
court in this motion to compel arbitration. 
The court finds the prudent procedure is to deny this motion without
prejudice.  If defendants defeat
plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim or claims before trial, they may then move
to compel arbitration again.
Disposition
            Defendants Gori
Company, LLC, Sky Kim, and Hyun Joong Kim’s motion to compel arbitration is denied
without prejudice.  Defendants shall file
a responsive pleading within 25 days.  