 Case Number:  23STCV25807    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Loretta Westlund’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
            Defendant
Loretta Westlund, as an individual and as trustee of the Westlund Family Trust,
moves to strike 18 portions of the complaint by plaintiffs Eddy Haemker and
Debra Haemker.  
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the complaint related to punitive damages.  Courts
may strike a “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b)(3).)  Courts
may strike allegations regarding punitive damages where the facts alleged “do
not rise to the level of malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover
punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294. 
(Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  
Punitive
Damages for Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
One of the 18
portions of the complaint defendant moves to strike concerns punitive damages
for the fourth cause of action for breach of implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment.  (Comp., ¶ 73.)  Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts to
recover punitive damages for that cause of action.  “[W]hen the landlord has breached the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment, but the tenant remains in possession of the
premises, the tenant’s remedy is to ‘sue for breach of contract damages.’
”  (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 873, 902.)  Without eviction,
there can be “no tort liability … that would entitle [a plaintiff] to punitive
damages.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs do not
allege they were evicted or have vacated the subject premises.  They instead allege they “have resided at the
Property since approximately September 2013” (¶ 13) and that defendant “sought to evict
Plaintiffs for retaliatory reasons” (¶ 41). 
Without eviction, plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages for breach
of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. 

Remaining
Portions
Plaintiffs allege
sufficient facts for punitive damages with respect to the other 17 portions
defendant moves to strike.  They allege
facts constituting malice.  “ ‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  The Court of Appeal has found allegations of
retaliation can establish malice.  (Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455; Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)  
Plaintiffs allege
defendant intentionally sought to evict them because they complained about
flooding and requested compensation.  (¶
28.)  They allege defendant claimed she
would evict them for having a cat, which they had for over two years (¶ 30),
“as pretext for terminating their tenancy … which was actually done to
retaliate against them for complaining about the condition of the Property and
requesting repairs” (¶ 31).  They further
allege defendant increased the rent by an amount prohibited under the Tenant
Protection Act “to push Plaintiffs out of the Property.”  (¶ 34.) 
These factual allegations can reasonably be characterized as conduct
intended to harm plaintiffs or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard of plaintiffs’ rights.
Disposition
Defendant Loretta Westlund’s motion to strike
portions of plaintiffs Eddy Haemker and Debra Haemker’s complaint is granted
in part with 20 days’ leave to amend. 

The court hereby strikes only the following
portion of the complaint, with 20 days’ leave to amend: “Defendant’s conduct
has been fraudulent, grossly negligent, malicious, and oppressive, thereby
entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages in an amount to be determined at
trial.”  (Comp., ¶ 73, page 11, lines
19-20.)