  Case Number:  20STCV30534    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s Application for Order Determining Good
Faith Settlement
Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (Kaiser) apply for an order determining
good faith settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a).  
Background
            This action arises from injuries
plaintiff Catherine Pham, D.D.S. alleges she suffered due to a defective
medical device.  Defendants LivaNova
Holding USA, Inc. and LivaNova Deutschland, GmbH (LivaNova) manufactured the
device.  The Kaiser defendants used it
while treating Pham.  Co-plaintiff Tuan
H. Tran is Pham’s spouse and alleges one cause of action for loss of consortium
against all defendants.  The Kaiser
defendants settled with plaintiffs in exchange for waiving Kaiser’s lien of
$1,034,160.   
Evidentiary
Objections
            LivaNova makes five objections to
the declaration of Matthew N. Trotter, Kaiser’s counsel.  Objection Nos. 1 and 2 are overruled.  Objection Nos. 3-5 are sustained.
            LivaNova makes five objections to
the declaration of Albro L. Lundy, III, counsel for plaintiffs Catherine Pham,
D.D.S. and Tuan H. Tran.  Objection No. 1
is overruled.  Objection Nos. 2
and 3 are sustained.
Legal
Standard
When
only some of multiple defendants alleged to be jointly liable settle a case,
the settling parties may apply to the court for a determination of good faith
settlement.  (CCP § 877.6(a).)  A determination of good faith settlement “shall
bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against
the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (CCP § 877.6(c).)
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488
(Tech-Bilt), the California Supreme Court set forth a non-exclusive list
of factors to consider in making this determination.  “The intent and policies underlying section
877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough
approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants. 
[Citation.]  Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  (Id. at p. 499.)
The
opposing party bears “the burden below to show the settlement amount was ‘so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to’ the Tech–Bilt factors that the
settlement was inconsistent with the equitable objectives of section
877.6.”  (Cahill v. San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 967 (Cahill); accord
CCP § 877.6(d) [“The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the
burden of proof on that issue”].) 
Because the opposing party bears the burden of proof, the moving party
is “not compelled to make a showing as to their proportionate liability” when
bringing its motion.  (Mattco Forge,
Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350, fn. 6 (Mattco).)  But after an opposing party “attack[s] the
settlement as lacking in good faith,” the moving party must “file
counter-affidavits (§ 877.6, subd. (b)) to make an evidentiary showing that the
settlement was ‘in the ballpark.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
To
prevail over an opposing party, “[s]ection 877.6 and Tech–Bilt require
an evidentiary showing, through expert declarations or other means, that the
proposed settlement is within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion
of good faith.”  (Mattco, supra,
at p. 1351.)  A determination of good
faith requires “substantial evidence,” which “is not synonymous with ‘any’
evidence; rather, it means the evidence must be of ponderable legal
significance, reasonable, credible, and of solid value.”  (Cahill, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at p.
958.)  Finally, “the determination whether
the settlement was in good faith must be based on competent, admissible
evidence.”  (Brehm Communities v.
Superior Court (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 730, 736 (Brehm).)
Kaiser
presents insufficient evidence on the crucial factors: plaintiffs’ approximate
total recovery and Kaiser’s proportionate liability.  Kaiser’s memorandum makes various claims,
without citing any evidence, about plaintiff Pham’s age, health, and earnings,
and about the amount of damages she claims in this action.  As in Mattco, this is an “argument, unsupported
by affidavits.”  (38 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1351.)    
Kaiser’s
moving papers present only two pieces of evidence: declarations by Kaiser’s counsel
and by plaintiffs’ counsel.  The
declarations do little more than state the attorneys have great experience in
similar cases and believe the settlement is fair.  That is insufficient.  (See Brehm, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 735-736; Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822,
834.)  The attorneys testify about the
nature of the action, the circumstances of the settlement, and make conclusory
statements about the total recoverable damages and Kaiser’s proportion of
liability.  (Trotter Decl., ¶¶ 2-5; Lundy
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Both attorneys describe
what expert witnesses will state in their testimony (Trotter Decl., ¶¶ 7-8;
Lundy Decl., ¶ 7), which is inadmissible hearsay.
The
record does not contain substantial evidence that this settlement was in good
faith.  Kaiser’s only substantive
evidence is a “Whole Genome Sequencing Report which confirms Dr. Pham’s isolate
was ‘genetically similar to the representative reference isolates … implicated
in the HCU M. Chimaera outbreak.’ ” 
(Trotter Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.) 
Kaiser argues this evidence suggests the medical device was contaminated
during the manufacturing process before Kaiser acquired it.  Kaiser provides no evidence explaining the
meaning of “genetically similar.”  Kaiser
did not present declarations by the expert witnesses themselves and did not
submit evidence of, for example, Pham’s past earnings or likely future
earnings, plaintiffs’ other damages, or even the amount plaintiffs claim in
damages.  
Disposition
Defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s motion for determination of good faith
settlement is denied without prejudice.Defendants
LivaNova Deutschland GmbH and LivaNova Holding USA, Inc.’s Motion for James A.
Frederick to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice Defendants
LivaNova Deutschland GmbH and LivaNova Holding USA, Inc.’s motion to admit
James A. Frederick to appear as counsel pro hac vice is granted.
