  Case Number:  23STCV01601    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



KAY ADAMS, an individual,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
WEISS ACCOUNTANCY CORPORATION, a California corporation,
  WEISS ACCOUNTANCY LLP, a California Limited Liability Partnership, SCOTT
  WEISS, an individual, and DOES 1-50, Inclusive,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV01601
 
 
TENTATIVE ORDER RE:  
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND MOTION FOR STAY OF
  PROCEEDINGS 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 2, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  10



 
 
 
Defendants Weiss
Accountancy Corporation, Weiss Accountancy LLP and Scott Weiss (“Defendants”) have
moved to compel arbitration and stay proceedings.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay the Action is GRANTED.  The case
management conference and informal discovery conference scheduled for today
shall go off calendar.  The Court sets a
status conference regarding status of arbitration for June 28, 2024 at 8:30
a.m.
 
 
Background
 
On January 25,
2023, Plaintiff Kay Adams (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants alleging causes of action for disability,
sex and national origin discrimination, sexual harassment and failure to
prevent under FEHA, violation of CFRA, wrongful termination in violation of
public policy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and numerous
violations of the Labor Code wage and hour provisions as well as statutory
unfair competition.
 
On August 23,
2023, Defendants filed the current Motion to Compel Arbitration (the
“Motion”).  
 
Plaintiff filed
an opposition to the Motion on September 12, 2023. Defendants filed a late
reply on September 19, 2023.
 
Legal Standard
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(b).) “Because the existence
of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the
petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“California law,
‘like [federal law], reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements
and requires close judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner
Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) If the
court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until
arbitration is completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 

 
Discussion
 
Existence of an applicable
Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendants move to compel
arbitration based on the arbitration agreement that Plaintiff executed as part
of her onboarding for her employment with Weiss. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶¶ 11-12, Ex.
B.) The specific arbitration provision states that it applies to “all
statutory, contractual, and/or common law claims arising from employment with
the Company including . . . tort claims; claims for retaliation, discrimination
or harassment of any kind, including claims based on sex, . . . Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, . . . the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act, [and]. . . the California Labor Code.” (Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition does not dispute that Plaintiff signed the Agreement or that the
claims asserted by Plaintiff are covered by the Agreement. Therefore, Defendants
have met their burden of showing that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists
between the Parties.  
 
Waiver of Arbitration
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants waived their right to compel arbitration as several of
the criterion from St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1194-1195 (St. Agnes) are met. Plaintiff argues
Defendants waived their right to arbitrate because (1)
Defendants unreasonably delayed in moving to compel arbitration, (2) Plaintiff
has been prejudiced by the delay, and (3) Defendants’ conduct has been
inconsistent with seeking arbitration. 
“No single test
defines the conduct that will constitute waiver of an arbitration right. 
Rather, courts look to several factors to determine whether waiver has
occurred.  [Citation.]  In St. Agnes, the Supreme Court
confirmed that a court may consider the following six factors in assessing a
waiver claim: ‘‘‘(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been
substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a
lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to
arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close
to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had
taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the
opposing party.’’  [Citation.]’  [Citations.]”  (Oregel v.
PacPizza, LLC (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 342, 354–355.) 
 
First, the Court does not find that Defendants unreasonably delayed
before notifying Plaintiff of their intent to arbitrate and seeking a stay. Plaintiff
filed her Complaint on January 25, 2023. (Sumell Decl. ¶ 2.) On
March 22, 2023, Defendants included in their answer a fifteenth affirmative
defense which stated that “Defendants are informed and believe that a
reasonable opportunity for investigation and discovery will reveal [that] . . .
Plaintiff is required to arbitrate her claims pursuant to a valid and
enforceable arbitration agreement.”  On June 14, 2023, Defendants’ counsel notified Plaintiff’s
counsel that Defendants found the parties’ arbitration agreement and sought
stipulation to arbitrate. (Id. ¶ 14, Ex. 2.) Defendants had found
a copy of the agreement on Laserfiche (8/21/23 Rodrigez Decl., ¶ 10.)  On July 18, 2023, Defendants sought to compel
arbitration.  
 
Plaintiff
argues that the five and one half month delay between her filing and the
Defendants’ filing of a motion to stay was unreasonable.  She cites cases such as Augusta v. Keehn
& Associates (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 331 where defendants delayed five
and one half months. In Augusta, the court found defendants’ knowledge about the arbitration
provisions and failure to offer any explanation for deferring their arbitration
demand was an unreasonable delay. (Augusta, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 338.) Here, on the other hand, Defendants raised the issue of
arbitration promptly in their answer and made clear they were looking for the
arbitration agreement.  Defendants generally
explain that the delay was initially due to not being able to locate the
arbitration agreement. (Adams Decl. ¶ 3.) The day after they discovered the arbitration agreement, Defendants promptly requested
Plaintiff stipulate to arbitration. (Id. ¶¶ 4-5.) Defendants also
assert that there have been no substantive procedural developments, motion
practice or proceedings in this matter. (Id. ¶
8.) Thus, the Court does not find there was an unreasonable delay under the particular
circumstances of this case.
 
Second,
the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to show she has been prejudiced by the
delay. “Prejudice is typically found only where the petitioning party’s conduct
has substantially undermined this important public policy or substantially
impaired the other side’s ability to take advantage of the benefits and
efficiencies of arbitration. For example, courts have found prejudice where the
petitioning party used the judicial discovery processes to gain information
about the other side’s case that could not have been gained in arbitration;
where a party unduly delayed and waited until the eve of trial to seek
arbitration; or where the lengthy nature of the delays associated with the
petitioning party’s attempts to litigate resulted in lost evidence.” (Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 378 quoting St.
Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 1204.) Plaintiff argues she has been
prejudiced because she has had to wait months for Defendants to engage and
Plaintiff had to post non-refundable jury fees. However, Plaintiff has not
shown that Defendants unduly delayed until the eve of trial, that Defendants
have obtained evidence they otherwise would not have acquired in arbitration,
or any significant risk of lost evidence. Thus, the Court does not find the
effects of the delay rise to a level of prejudice. 
 
Finally,
Defendants’ actions were not inconsistent with their right to arbitrate. “‘[T]here is no fixed stage in a lawsuit beyond which
further litigation waives the right to arbitrate.  Rather, the court views
the litigation as a whole in determining
whether the parties’ conduct is inconsistent with a desire to arbitrate.’
[Citation.]”  (Bower v. Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 1035, 1042.)   Plaintiff states Defendants
requested a jury trial in their CMC statement and posted jury fees. However,
Plaintiff does not point to any other action taken by Defendants that are
inconsistent with their desire to arbitrate. For example, in Augusta, supra,
193 Cal.App.4th at 339, the defendant had propounded discovery and
supplemental responses which the court found signified his intent to litigate
considering the arbitration clause prohibited formal discovery. Here, there have
not been substantive procedural developments, motion practice or proceedings in
this matter and no other conduct on behalf of Defendants that have been
inconsistent with arbitration. Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to
show Defendants’ conduct as a whole has been inconsistent with a desire to
arbitrate.
 


 
Applicability of Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 
 
Next, Plaintiff briefly references the federal “Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021.” Plaintiff
does not actually argue that this statute applies to the current case.  Rather, she asserts that the federal act
“reflects a definite policy departure from what used to be a preference for
arbitration in cases involving sexual harassment. Thus, the landscape in which
motions to compel arbitration in sexual harassment cases are decided has
changed considerably.”  (Opp. At p. 7.)
Because Plaintiff has not advanced
an argument that the statute requires that her claim be kept in court rather
than in arbitration, Plaintiff has waived the issue.  To the extent she did not waive the issue,
she has not made a showing that the statute applies to the current case, which
appears to have accrued before the statute was in effect. 
 
On March 3, 2022, President
Biden signed into law the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the “Act”). The Act amends the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1, et seq., and renders unenforceable (at the option
of person alleging assault or harassment) pre-dispute arbitration agreements
relating to claims of sexual assault or sexual harassment: 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, at
the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the named representative of a class or in
a collective action alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement
or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to
a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the
sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute. 
 
 (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd.
(a).) 
 
The
Act has certain limitations on the timing of claims. As the notes to this
statute make clear: “This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply
with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the
date of enactment of this Act.”(PL 117-90, March 3, 2022, 136 Stat 26,
emphasis added.) The Act became effective March 3, 2022.  Federal courts have recognized that claims
that accrued prior to March 3, 2022 are not covered by the statute.  (Walters v. Starbucks Corp. (2022) 623
F.Supp.3d 333, 337-338; Hodgin v. Intensive Care Consortium, Inc. (S.D.
Fla. 2023) 2023 WL 2751443 at *2.)  A claim normally “accrues”
when the plaintiff has a “complete and present cause of action.”  (Walters
v. Starbucks Corp., supra,  623
F.Supp.3d at pp. 337-338.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff does not allege facts
indicating her sexual harassment claim or dispute arose or accrued after the
Act’s enactment date. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges she was subjected to
sexual harassment and discrimination in the form of sexually demeaning comments
and sexually offensive language during her employment with Weiss. (Compl. ¶ 27.) However, Plaintiff does not
allege specifically when the harassing comments were made. Plaintiff worked for
Weiss from February 2019 until October 2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 2, 50.) There is nothing in
Plaintiff’s complaint or in her opposition to the Motion that indicates that
her claims arose in her final six months of employment (from March 3, 2022
until October 2022) as opposed to during the first three years of employment
(from February 2019 until March 3, 2022). 
Plaintiff has therefore not shown that the Act applies to her claim for sexual
harassment. 
 
For
these foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration. The action is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration
proceedings. 
 
 Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this ruling. 
 