  Case Number:  19STCV08232    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ISSA
  AL-BAYATI, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad litem, MAHA AL SADOON
                           
         vs.
 
LOS
  ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT; ANA VELASCO; NELSON VELASCO
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV08232
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: October 28, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel compliance is GRANTED. Plaintiff is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $1,030.00 for the costs incurred due to Dr. Eskenazi’s
non-appearance.
 
On March 11,
2019, Plaintiff Issa Al-Bayati (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendants Los
Angeles Unified School Districts (LAUSD), Ana Velasco, and Nelson Velasco
(collectively, Defendants). On April 15, 2019, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) general negligence; (2) premises liability; (3)
negligent hiring and retention; and (4) negligent training and supervision.
 
On
10/28/2024, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff’s compliance with a Court
Order. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in connection with its motion.
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has refused to comply with the Court’s 9/26/2024 Order
after experts Jonathan Eskenazi (Dr. Eskenazi) and Janet Roughan (Roughan)
failed to appear for deposition. Defendant contends that they incurred costs
totaling $1,030.00 as a result of Dr. Eskenazi’s failure to appear for his
10/14/2024 deposition.[1]

 
 
            After
review, the Court grants Defendant’s motion. This is based on the following
recitation of facts:
 
-        
Plaintiff’s expert neurologist, Dr.
Jonathon Eskenazi, is a member of the Jewish faith. Dr. Eskenazi’s availability
was limited by these holiday, as was defense counsel. (Wilkerson Decl., ¶5). On
October 8, 2024, Dr. Eskenazi advised both parties that he would only be
available on October 14, 2024, for deposition (Wilkerson Decl., ¶6). Defense
counsel agreed and noticed the deposition. (Wilkerson Decl., ¶7).
 
-        
On October 14, 2024, at 7:41am, Dr.
Eskenazi emailed both Defense and Plaintiff’s counsel that he would not appear
at the deposition due to Defendant’s failure to pay his deposition fee
according to his fee schedule. (Wilkerson Decl., ¶9; Exhibit 1).
 
-        
Plaintiff’s counsel called Defense
counsel, Ms. Sarah Hernandez, at 10:41 a.m. and notified her that Dr. Eskenazi
did not receive payment. (Wilkerson Decl., ¶10; Exhibit 2). Defense counsel
claimed that payment was sent on the morning of, yet Dr. Eskenazi claimed did
not receive it. (Id.). Defendant’s submitted evidence that shows that
payment was delivered that morning at 9:27 a.m., more than an hour and half
prior to the deposition. (Decl. Hernandez, Exhibit L.) 
 
-        
Dr. Eskanazi refused to appear for
deposition. He expressed to both parties that he would be available on October
15, 2024, as well as on October 18, 2024, and October 23, 2024, yet Defense
counsel ignored the communication. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff claims that Dr. Eskanazi had specifically requested
payment three days prior to avoid this situation, and that Defendant refused.
However, Plaintiff does not set forth any legal authority which would indicate
that Defendant had any obligation to agree to this. By contrast, Dr. Eskanazi
had been directed by a Court Order to appear for deposition. The evidence
indicates that he was issued payment prior to the deposition, and still refused
to appear. As such, Defendant was within its rights to take a Notice of
Non-Appearance, and did, in fact, incur costs due to Dr. Eskanazi’s willful and
unreasonable refusal to appear. While Dr. Eskanazi thereafter offered
alternative dates, he still violated a Court Order and caused actual costs to
be incurred by Defendant. As such, to deny Defendant’s request here would be to
reward Dr. Eskanazi’s unreasonable refusal, and force Defendant to bear the
cost and delay of that behavior. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel compliance is granted. Plaintiff is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $1,030.00 for the costs incurred due to Dr.
Eskenazi’s non-appearance. 
 
 
 It
is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 


