  Case Number:  23STCV18514    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff’s Motion To Compel Discovery
Responses And To Deem Requests For Admissions Admitted And For Sanctions.BackgroundOn 8/4/23,  THE
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for abatement
and injunction against RISH INVESTMENTS, INC., as motel owner, and GAZI MONIRUL
ISLAM (“Defendants”) as involved, alleging that defendants failed to abate
nuisances at the New Gage at 6310 S. Figueroa Street, South Los Angeles, where,
besides brazen prostitution, since at least 2016 there has been violence, chaos
and lawlessness, including batteries, robberies, attempted robbery, and
assaults with deadly weapons.         
.   Plaintiff brings a motion to compel Defendant RISH
INVESTMENTS, INC. (“Defendant”) to serve responses to Form Interrogatories (Set
One), Special interrogatories (Set One) and Demand for Production of Documents
(Set One). Further, Plaintiff requests an order deeming admitted requests for
admissions, and imposing $2,880.00 in sanctions against that Defendant. The
motion contends that Defendant failed to serve responses to the requests or
produce documents, even though the responses were originally due on 11/6/23,
and extended to 12/12/23, via stipulation.AnalysisOn 1/22/24 (four days before the hearing) Defendant
filed a Notice of Service of Verified Response to Request for Admissions (Set
One). The attached verified RFA responses substantially comply with CCP § 2033.220
and thus the request for an order deeming admitted the RFAs is moot. Defendant has not, however, provided the Court with
proof that it has served verified responses, without objections, to the form
and special interrogatories and the document requests. Plaintiff adequately
shows Defendant’s failures to respond to the subject discovery requests.  However, the opposition evidences the
substantial justification for the lack of responses due to the illness of defense
counsel. Because of that, the Court allows extra time for service of initial
discovery responses.The Court therefore grants the motion with respect to
the form and special interrogatories and document requests, while allowing
extra time to serve responses to accommodate reported medical conditions of defense
cousel.On or before 3/26/24, Defendant RISH INVESTMENTS, INC.
shall serve initial responses, and produce documents, without objections, and
in full compliance with the California Discovery Act, CCP §2016.010 et seq.,
as to the form interrogatories, special interrogatories and requests for
documents served by Plaintiff.
The request for monetary sanctions is denied, the
Court finding the existence of substantial justification regarding defense
counsel’s medical challenges.    E.g.,
CCP   § 2023.030. 