 Case Number:  23STCP01878    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿ 
Date: 10/4/24 
Case #23STCP01878
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

OCTOBER 3, 2024
 

MOTION TO
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23STCP01878

  
Motion Filed: 7/30/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Natalie Davidson
(“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Zoya Vladimirskaya;
and Cardea Hospice & Palliative Care (collectively, “Defendants”) 
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order disqualifying Christopher
J. Hamner and his law firm, Hamner Law Offices, APLC, from representing
Defendants in the instant action and any related actions.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed motion is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action concerns a business
dispute between Plaintiff and Defendant Vladimirskaya, who are equal sole
shareholders, directors, and officers of nominal Defendant Cardea Hospice &
Palliative Care (“Cardea”). (Compl. ¶¶
7–9.) Plaintiff alleges that on 2/7/23, Vladimirskaya tendered her resignation as an
officer of Cardea and offered to sell her shares. (Id. at ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff further alleges that Vladimirskaya, inter alia, wrongfully converted corporate funds to
herself and others, attempted to evict Cardea from its rental unit, and
demanded that the business be shut down. (Id. at ¶ 12.)
 
On 5/31/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, individually and
on behalf of Cardea, alleging against Defendants the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (against Vladimirskaya); (2) Conversion (against Vladimirskaya); (3) Money Had and Received
(against Vladimirskaya);
(4) Declaratory Relief (against Defendants); and (5) Removal Pursual to
Corporations Code § 304 (against Defendants). On 9/14/23, Defendants filed
their answer.
 
On 2/13/24, Plaintiff filed a motion to disqualify
Defendants’ former attorney. On 7/15/24, Defendants filed a substitution of
attorney stating that they are now represented by Christopher J. Hamner of
Hamner Law Offices, APLC.
 
 
On 7/30/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to disqualify
Defendants’ current attorney. No opposition has been filed to date. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Court’s authority to disqualify
an attorney derives from its inherent powers “to control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every manner
pertaining thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128, subd.
(a)(5).) 
 
“A
lawyer shall not, without informed written consent from each client … represent
a client if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the
same or a separate matter.” (Cal. Rules Prof.
Conduct, rule 1.7, subd. (a).) “If an attorney simultaneously represents two
clients with adverse interests, automatic disqualification is the rule in all
but a few instances.” (Blue Water Sunset, LLC v. Markowitz (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 477, 487.) In a shareholder derivative lawsuit where the
corporation is nominally named as a defendant, the corporation is a plaintiff
in the eyes of the law, because the corporation stands to benefit if the
shareholder plaintiff prevails. (Id. at 489, citing Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that “Mr.
Hamner cannot jointly represent Vladimirskaya and Cardea Hospice in this
derivative action pursuant to all applicable case law because to do so would be
a direct, un-waivable conflict of interest where [Plaintiff] Davidson and Vladimirskaya
are the only two shareholders of Cardea Hospice. Mr. Hamner cannot zealously
represent the corporation, Cardea Hospice, to recover the monies Vladimirskaya
is alleged to have stolen while at the same time, defend Vladimirskaya against
the very same claims that no monies were stolen from the corporation.” (Pl.’s
Mot. 1:10–16.) 
 
Plaintiff further argues that “Cardea
Hospice’s interests are adverse to the Vladimirskaya with regard to, at a
minimum, ownership of the money which Davidson alleges Vladimirskaya has
wrongfully taken from Cardea Hospice.” (Id. at 5:20–22.) “To defend
Vladimirskaya in this action would force Mr. Hamner to take the position that
Vladimirskaya committed no wrong, when that is exactly contradictory to the
claims Davidson is bringing on behalf of Cardea Hospice.” (Id. at
6:5–7.)
 
The Court agrees, and finds that
Plaintiff’s derivative claims, on behalf of Cardea, are adverse to defendant Vladimirskaya’s
such that counsel’s representation of both Cardea and Vladimirskaya raises a
conflict of interest warranting automatic disqualification under Blue Water Sunset. (192 Cal.App.4th 477.) The Court
further notes that Defendants have failed to oppose the instant motion.
Accordingly, the unopposed motion is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motion is granted.