  Case Number:  23CHCV00139    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿ 
Date: 10/4/24 
Case #23CHCV00139
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

OCTOBER 3, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL
EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV00139

  
Motion Filed: 9/9/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and Jessica Cabrera (collectively,
“Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Sara Valtierra
(“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: The following orders:
1)     
An order compelling Plaintiff to appear at a
neuropsychiatric examination with Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D.;
2)     
A protective order that custody of all
recordings of the neuropsychological testing portion of the neuropsychiatric
examination be maintained by Dr. Kalechstein for production to Plaintiff’s
expert;
3)     
A protective order that raw test data, test
materials, and recordings of the neuropsychological testing portion be produced
only to Plaintiff’s expert.
4)     
An order that the notice is adequate as to
possible tests to be performed by Dr. Kalechstein.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted in part and
denied in part. The Court orders Plaintiff to submit to psychological
examination with Dr. Kalechstein on 10/7/24, at 11835 W. Olympic Boulevard,
Suite 1265E, Los Angeles, CA 90064. The raw test data, test materials, and
recordings of the neuropsychological testing portion of the examination may be produced
to Plaintiff’s counsel under the protective order as stated below. The notice
adequately describes the potential tests to be performed on Plaintiff.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in
which Plaintiff alleges that on 1/26/22, she was boarding a bus owned and
operated by defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“Metro”), when the driver, defendant Jessica Cabrera, accelerated and/or
braked hard, thereby knocking Plaintiff unconscious. (Compl. ¶¶ 10–11.) On
1/18/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Negligence (against Cabrera); and (4) Negligence (against Metro).
 
On 9/9/24, Defendants filed the
instant motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to a neurological examination with
Dr. Kalechstein. On 9/20/24, Plaintiff filed her opposition. On 9/24/24, Defendants
filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party may obtain discovery by
means of a physical or mental examination in an action in which the mental or
physical condition of the person to be examined is “in controversy.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.020,
subd. (a).) A motion and court order are required to obtain a mental
examination of a party or party-affiliated individual. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.310, subd. (a).) Here, the parties do not dispute that Plaintiff has
placed her mental condition “in controversy” such that a mental examination
would be warranted.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
“A motion for an examination under
subdivision (a) … shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.310, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendants’ counsel declares
that he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the issues raised
in the instant motion, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl.
of Gabriel H. Wainfeld ¶¶
4–5.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary
requirements set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310,
subdivision (b).
 
B.    
Recording and Disclosure of
Neuropsychological Testing
 
“If a party submits to a … mental
examination … that party has the option of making a written demand that the
party at whose instance the examination was made deliver … to the demanding
party … [a] copy of a detailed written report setting out the history,
examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610, subd.
(a)(1).) “If the option under [Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.610(a)] is exercised, a
copy of the requested reports shall be delivered within 30 days after service
of the demand, or within 15 days of trial, whichever is earlier.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.610, subd.
(b).)  
 
A court has discretion to order the
production of the raw data from a mental examination.  (Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court
of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837.) “There is no statutory
authority … precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test
materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.” (Id. at
834.) A plaintiff has a “right to take discovery and cross-examine defendants’
expert witnesses, which includes being able to examine the expert on the matter
upon which the expert’s opinion is based and the reasons for that opinion.” (Id.
at 838.) Without access to raw data, a plaintiff “cannot effectively
scrutinize the way the data was collected, determine if there are
discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist on the basis and reasons
for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.” (Ibid.)
 
In Randy’s Trucking, the
plaintiff sustained injuries in a vehicle accident and during discovery claimed
that she suffered a severe traumatic brain injury. The defendants thereafter
moved for an order compelling plaintiff to undergo a mental examination by
their neuropsychologist. The defendants moved for such an order after the plaintiff
refused to proceed with the examination unless their attorney received all raw
data and test information from the mental examination. The trial court granted
the defendants’ motion to compel; however, the trial court denied the
defendants’ request to limit the transmission of raw data and test materials to
a licensed psychologist or neuropsychologist. Instead, the trial court ordered the
defendants’ neuropsychologist to transfer the raw data and an audio recording
of the examination to the plaintiff’s attorney pursuant to a protective
order.  
 
Thereafter, the defendants sought a
petition for writ of mandate to direct the trial court to modify its order to
require the transmission of the raw data and audio recording to plaintiff’s
retained psychologist or neuropsychologist as opposed to plaintiff’s attorney.
The defendants asserted that: (1) the trial court erred in ordering
transmission of raw data and audio recordings to plaintiff’s counsel because
those items are not among the materials set forth in Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.610(a); and (2) psychologist confidentiality prohibited disclosure of test
materials. In rejecting defendants’ contentions, the Court of Appeal held that
there is no statutory authority prohibiting a trial court from ordering the
disclosure of test materials or test data when ordering a mental examination. (Id.
at 834.) Moreover, the court opined that given the trial court’s broad
discretion in discovery matters, the trial court retained jurisdiction to order
the production of materials and, in doing so, the trial court did not abuse its
discretion. (Id. at 837.)
 
Here, as in Randy’s Trucking,
Defendants argue that “the audio recording by Plaintiff of this session raises
the ethical and statutory violations by Dr. Kalechstein.” (Defs.’ Mot.
4:20–21.) “Due to several reasons outlined below, including APA ethics
guidelines and regulatory authority, Dr. Kalechstein is not permitted to
disclose recordings, test data, or test materials, of the neuropsychological
examination with anyone who isn’t a licensed psychologist.” (Id. at 4:22–24.)
Alternatively, Defendants assert that they “are willing to provide these
materials to Plaintiff’s expert in accordance with the ethical and regulatory
authorities imposed on all psychologists.” (Id. at 4:26–27.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
“Defendants fail to explain how providing the raw data to Plaintiff’s counsel
pursuant to a protective order violates those rules. Instead, Defendants ask
the Court to ignore Randy’s Trucking, while failing to cite any legal
authority limiting mental examination data to experts.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:2–5.)
Plaintiff further argues that “here, for Plaintiff’s counsel to adequately
prepare for trial and effectively cross-examine Kalechstein, Plaintiff’s
counsel must have direct access to the raw data used to form Kalechstein’s
opinions.” (Id. at 9:26–28.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff,
and finds that without access to such raw data, Plaintiff would not be able to
scrutinize the data collected by Dr. Kalechstein and prepare for
cross-examination if the case goes to trial. Furthermore, the same argument asserted
by Defendants against the disclosure of raw data was rejected by the Court of
Appeal in Randy’s Trucking. The Court finds that the production of the
raw data is routinely and properly granted, thus Defendants’ argument that they
will not be able to find a neuropsychologist willing to comply with this order
is unavailing.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
exercises its discretion and denies Defendants’ request that the raw test data from
Plaintiff’s neuropsychological examination, including raw data of any testing
and test questions, be withheld from Plaintiff’s counsel. While the Court finds
that disclosure of raw test data from Plaintiff’s neuropsychological
examination should be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court finds that
such disclosure is warranted pursuant to a protective order. (Randy’s
Trucking, 91 Cal.App.5th at 828.) This Court orders the following
protective order—identical to that which was issued in Randy’s Trucking—be
entered in this matter: 
 
“Plaintiff’s counsel,
defense counsel and all experts, consultants and the employees of the
respective firms shall maintain the security of all raw data, test materials,
and other medically private information obtained during the examination.
However, such raw data, test materials and other medically private information
may be disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts,
consultants and employees of the respective firms for use in this case. Such
materials and data may also be shown to the trier of fact at the time of trial,
or such other time as may be necessary for the adjudication of the
above-captioned matter. These materials may be used for no other purpose, may
not be disseminated to any other party and the parties shall take reasonable
steps to maintain the confidentiality of the above-identified materials.” The
parties are also ordered to “destroy the above-identified materials at the
cessation of this case, in accordance with the California Rules of Professional
Conduct.”  
 
Counsel may seek to add or modify
the above terms by stipulation or motion; however, pending a protective order
from the parties concerning disclosure, the above protective order shall apply.
 
Where a mental examination occurs,
“[t]he examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental
examination on audio tape.” (Golfland Entertainment Centers, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 739, 750.) The main purposes of
audiotaping a mental examination “are to ensure that the examiner does not overstep
the bounds set by the court for the mental examination, that the context of the
responses can be judged for purposes of trial, that the examinee’s interests
are protected (especially since the examinee’s counsel ordinarily will not be
present), and that any evidence of abuse can be presented to the court.” (Ibid.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee
the right to record a mental examination by audio technology and implies that
the examinee can retain a copy of the recording. (Randy’s Trucking, 91
Cal.App.5th at 837.) A court has discretion to order the production of an audio
recording from a mental examination.  (Ibid.)  
 
Here, the Court finds that
disclosure of the audio recording of the examination to Plaintiff’s counsel is
appropriate. Disclosure of the forensic portion of the examination can ensure
that Dr. Kalechstein does not overstep the bounds of the examination and can
protect Plaintiff’s interests. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’
request for Dr. Kalechstein to withhold audio recordings of the examination from
Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
C.   
Notice of Potential Diagnostic Tests
 
“An order granting a physical or
mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe in detail who will
conduct the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed. The way to describe these diagnostic tests and procedures—fully
and in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260 [emphasis in original].)  
 
The party who seeks to compel a
mental examination has the burden to specify the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be conducted. (Id. at 267.)¿“Insisting that section
2032.320 means what it says—that the diagnostic tests and procedures must be
specified—will result in an orderly and efficient means of balancing the
interests of the plaintiff and defendant.¿The defendant, aware that the court
must name the diagnostic tests and procedures in the order granting a mental
examination, will identify the potential tests and procedures in its moving
papers.¿The plaintiff, assisted by counsel and a psychologist or other expert,
may consider whether the proposed tests are inappropriate, irrelevant, or
abusive, and submit evidence and argument to that effect if necessary.”¿(Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s
counsel is contending that the notice should set forth all tests that will be
performed. Defendants contend that the notice setting forth all possible tests
to be performed is sufficient to provide plaintiff with notice of what tests
may be performed but not all the tests set forth may be performed. During the
exam it may be determined that not all the tests need to be performed.” (Defs.’
Mot. 5:4–7.)
 
Plaintiff argues in opposition that
“the statute does not allow for Defendants to broadly list acceptable tests the
doctor might perform once he is in the examination room with Plaintiff, but
straightforwardly requires Defendants ‘to list by name the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed in the mental examination.’” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:22–25,
quoting Carpenter, 141 Cal.App.4th at 260.) In reply, Defendants
maintain that “the notice provided to plaintiff sets forth the specific tests
that Dr. Kalechstein may employ. There is no requirement that each and every
test identified actually be performed.” (Defs.’ Reply 2:16–18.)
 
The court agrees with Defendants
and defers to Dr. Kalechstein to choose the specific tests he will use in the
examination, which can be dependent on the results of other testing. The tests
to be used in the examination will be drawn from the list of tests proposed,
which sufficiently puts Plaintiff on notice of the potential tests to be
performed. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds the list of tests are
specific and proper. Accordingly, the Court grants the instant motion as to the
adequacy of the list of proposed tests to be performed on Plaintiff. 
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The motion is granted in part and
denied in part. The Court orders Plaintiff to submit to psychological
examination with Dr. Kalechstein on 10/7/24, at 11835 W. Olympic Boulevard,
Suite 1265E, Los Angeles, CA 90064. The raw test data, test materials, and
recordings of the neuropsychological testing portion of the examination may be
produced to Plaintiff’s counsel under the protective order as stated above. The
notice adequately describes the potential tests to be performed on Plaintiff.