 Case Number:  23CHCV01650    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-4-24
Case # 23CHCV01650, Luis Fernando Sanchez vs. General
Motors LLC
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st – 3rd Causes of Action
for Violations of the Song-Beverly Act
·        
4th Cause of Action: Fraud –
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Claim for Punitive Damages [FAC, p. 30, Paragraph
6 of the Prayer for Relief]
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend
for the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action. Demurrer is moot for the
Fourth Cause of Action. Motion to strike is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On May 15, 2020, Plaintiff Luis Fernando Sanchez
(Plaintiff) purchased a 2019 GMC Sierra. (FAC, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges that he received a new and
full certified pre-owned warranty from Defendant General Motors LLC as part of
the purchase, which Plaintiff argues means that the vehicle is considered a
“new motor” under the Song-Beverly Act. (FAC, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges that there were transmission
problems with the vehicle that could not be repaired within a reasonable number
of attempts. (FAC, ¶¶
4, 21.)
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed his initial complaint.
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) with four
causes of action for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and (4) Fraud – Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. 
 
Defendant filed its demurer with motion to strike on November
15, 2023. In its demurrer, Defendant demurs to all four of Plaintiff’s causes
of action. In the motion to strike, Defendant moves for Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages to be stricken. Plaintiff has filed no opposition to
Defendant’s demurrer or motion to strike, but on March 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal for his Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud –
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. The request for dismissal was entered that
same day.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant brings a demurrer to Plaintiff’s First through
Third Causes of Action on the basis that they fail to set forth facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action against Defendant. Defendant also
demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment, but Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal for this cause of
action on March 20, 2024.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            First
through Third Causes of Action
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s First through Third Causes
of Action for violations of the Song-Beverly Act on the basis that Plaintiff
has not pled that he purchased a new vehicle.
 
Defendant argues, pursuant to Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, that Plaintiff is not able to maintain causes of
action under the Song-Beverly Act because Plaintiff purchased the vehicle used.
In Rodriguez, the Court of Appeal found that the phrase “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” from Civ. Code §
1793.22(e)(2) does not cover pre-owned vehicles with some balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s express warranty, which was the situation in that case. (Id.
at 209.)
 
Defendant argues that this applies to the present case
because Plaintiff has not alleged facts demonstrating that he purchased a “new
motor vehicle” with a “new car warranty” within the meaning of Song-Beverly.
Defendant argues that, at most, Plaintiff purchased a vehicle with a remaining
balance of the original New Vehicle Limited Warranty, meaning that under Rodriguez,
Plaintiff could not maintain his Song-Beverly Act causes of action.
 
However, what distinguishes Rodriguez from
Plaintiff’s case is that Plaintiff has alleged that “the Subject Vehicle was a
certified pre-owned (“CPO”) purchased as a CPO vehicle with an accompanying
GENERAL MOTORS LLC’s new and full CPO warranty and therefore constitutes a “new
motor vehicle” vehicle under the Act.” (FAC, ¶ 4.) What is unclear from what
Plaintiff has alleged is whether Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant issued a
new warranty when Plaintiff purchased the used vehicle, or whether Plaintiff is
alleging that the vehicle was accompanied by the existing warranty from when
the vehicle was new. Plaintiff has not attached the warranty to either his
original complaint or the FAC, so it is not evident whether Rodriguez
would apply.
 
This makes Plaintiff’s FAC uncertain because Plaintiff has
not sufficiently pled the terms of the alleged warranty. Defendant’s demurrer
is granted for Plaintiff’s first three causes of action on the basis that they
are uncertain.
 
Defendant has also demurred to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Implied Warrant on the basis that manufacturers cannot be
liable for breaches of implied warranty of used vehicles. In Nunez v. FCA US
LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 398, the Court of Appeal held that “plaintiff’s
implied warranty claim fails as a matter of law, because in the sale of used
consumer goods, liability for breach of implied warranty lies with distributors
and retailers, not the manufacturer, where there is no evidence the
manufacturer played any role in the sale of the used car to plaintiff.” Where
the manufacturer sells directly to public or issues express warranties for the
sale of used vehicles, it is the retailer and therefore has obligations under
Civ. Code § 1795.5. (Id. at 399 (citing Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA,
LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334).)
 
Once again, it is unclear in this case what role Defendant
played in the sale of the used vehicle to Plaintiff. If Defendant partnered
with the dealership to sell the vehicle by offering an express warranty as part
of the sales package (see Kiluk, 43 Cal. App.5th at 340), then Defendant
may be liable. Plaintiff’s pleadings are uncertain in this respect, so the
Court also sustains the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action on this basis.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second, and Third
Causes of Action are sustained with leave to amend on the basis that they are
uncertain.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action.
However, Plaintiff has since filed a request for dismissal for this cause of
action, which renders Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action moot.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages on the basis that Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state facts
sufficient to support punitive damages for any of the causes of action.
 
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
No punitive damages are available under the Song-Beverly
Act. Recovery under that statute is limited to a refund of the purchase price
paid and payable (or replacement of the subject vehicle), plus a civil penalty,
where applicable, not to exceed two times Plaintiff’s actual damages (Civ. Code
§ 1794.)
 
Plaintiff has requested that his fraud cause of action be
dismissed, which was the main basis for Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages. Because punitive damages are not allowable under the Song-Beverly Act,
punitive damages are not available for any of Plaintiff’s other causes of
action. Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages
is granted.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for
Plaintiff’s First through Third Causes of Action. The demurrer is moot for
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages is granted.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days to file an amended complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.