  Case Number:  23CHCV00273    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-4-24
Case #23CHCV00273,
Sylvia Leon vs. Samuel Pineda, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIALLY PREPARED
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY:
Plaintiff Sylvia Leon
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant’s
further responses to Plaintiff’s specially prepared interrogatories, as well as
sanctions
 
RULING:
Motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff
Sylvia Leon (Plaintiff) filed her complaint in this action on January 31, 2023.
She alleged causes of action for fraud, quiet title, cancellation of deeds, and
declaratory relief. Her complaint was based on allegations that a grant deed
dated May 22, 2018, was prepared by or at the request of Defendants Samuel
Pineda and Samuel Eduardo Pineda that purportedly conveyed the real property
located at 13493 Filmore Street, Pacoima, CA from Plaintiff’s mother to
Defendants. Plaintiff’s mother subsequently died, and Plaintiff is the
administrator of her estate that consists of the property. 
 
Defendants
filed their answer to the complaint on June 9, 2023. On August 9, 2023,
Plaintiff served a first set of specially prepared interrogatories on Defendant
Samuel Pineda. On September 22, 2023, Defendant served responses to the
interrogatories that only consisted of objections that Plaintiff argues are not
meritorious. Defendant objected to every single interrogatory that Plaintiff
served and did not respond substantively to any of them. Shortly after that, on
September 25, 2023, Defendant substituted out his attorney and became
self-represented.
 
Plaintiff
attempted to confer with Defendant regarding Defendant’s responses via a meet
and confer letter, but Defendant did not respond to Plaintiff’s letter. 
 
On October 12,
2023, Plaintiff filed and served this motion to compel further responses to specially
prepared interrogatories and for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the
amount of $1,411.65.
 
As of March 29,
2024, Plaintiff’s motion is unopposed. Any opposition to the motion was 
required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (CCP
§ 1005(b).)
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has not provide meritorious responses to any of
Plaintiff’s specially prepared interrogatories. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s interrogatories are not specific and
instead are too general. Plaintiff requested the identity of witnesses and
facts that Defendant contends support each of his affirmative defenses. Instead,
Defendant answered with nothing but objections.
 
The Discovery
Act allows “[a]ny party [to] obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other
party to the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.” (CCP §
2030.010(a).) “An interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a
certain contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a
contention is based.” (CCP § 2031.030(b).) The responding party must then
respond separately to each interrogatory with either an answer containing the
information sought to be discovered, an exercise of the party’s option to
produce writings, or an objection. (CCP § 2030.210.) If the demanding party
deems that “(1) [a]n answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; (2) [a]n exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate; [or] (3) [a]n objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general,” the demanding party may seek an order compelling Code-complaint
responses. (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)-(3).)
 
A party is
required to provide responses to interrogatories that are “as complete and 
straightforward
as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (CCP
§ 2030.220(a).) “If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be
answered to the extent possible.” (CCP § 2030.220(b).)
 
“If the
responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully
to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and
good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” (CCP § 2030.220(c).)
 
Objections must
be specific, and a motion to compel lies where objections are “too general”. (CCP
§ 2030.300(a)(3); Korea Data Systems Co. Ltd. v. Superior Court (Amazing
Technologies Corp.) (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516 (objecting party
subject to sanctions for “boilerplate” objections).)
 
In response to
every single specially prepared interrogatory, Defendant responded by stating:
“Responding Party objects to the extent
that the request calls for the disclosure of privileged attorney-client
communications and information otherwise protected from discovery on the
grounds of privilege, work-product privileged information and/or information
protected by any other applicable privilege. Responding Party objects to this
request on the basis that the request is vague and ambiguous. Responding Party
objects to this request due to relevance. The requested information is not
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. Responding Party objects
to this request on the basis that the requested information is equally
accessible to both parties.”
 
This answer is
not complete and straightforward. It does not answer Plaintiff’s
interrogatories in the slightest. It is a boilerplate objection that was copied
and pasted to every single answer. Defendant cannot simply restate the same
answer over and over in this manner. Defendant must answer each interrogatory individually
to the best of his ability.
Plaintiff’s
interrogatories, which related to Defendant’s asserted affirmative defenses,
were reasonable. Defendant must take the time to answer these interrogatories
and rather than just object to them.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant must submit verified, code-compliant responses to all of
Plaintiff’s specially prepared interrogatories. In the event that Defendant
still objects to any of them, Defendant must give specific reasons for that
objection, or if Defendant cannot comply with the request, Defendant must give
a statement that he made a reasonable and good faith effort to comply.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to the specially prepared
interrogatories is granted.
 
Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010(d)-(f); CCP § 2031.310(h).)
 
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions in the total amount of $1,411.65 against Defendant. The
amount was based on 4.5 hours at $300 an hour and $61.65 in costs. (Forry
Decl., ¶ 10.) One hour of the 4.5 hours was for time anticipated for drafting a
response to the opposition. Because no opposition and no reply were filed, the
Court will only impose sanctions for 3.5 hours at $300. That makes the total
amount of sanctions $1,111.65 ($1,050 plus the filing fee).
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Defendant is granted in the total amount of $1,111.65.
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to specially prepared interrogatories is
granted.
2.      Defendant
is ordered to serve supplemental responses within thirty (30) days.
3.      Defendant
is ordered to pay sanctions in the total amount of $1,111.65. Defendant is
ordered to pay these sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days.