


[1] DSS has issued two ACLs clarifying protective
service: ACLs 15-25 and 17-95.  The
parties do not present these letters but their existence is undisputed. 


[2]
Citation to the ALJ’s decision is not proof of the underlying fact.  However, the facts cited by the court from
the ALJ’s decision are undisputed.


[3]
Although SW Begeyan contradicted Daughter on whether Beyder or Daughter
answered her questions in the interview (AR 133-34) and whether Byeder has Alzheimer’s
as well as dementia (AR 165), there is no need to discuss this testimony in
detail.


[4] DSS’s
opposition refers to protective supervision provided to her beginning in
October 2023. Opp. at 13-14. Beyder correctly objects to this reference as
unsupported by the administrative record and the court has not considered it.  See Reply at 10-11.  


[5]
Although Beyder’s opening and reply briefs contend that the ALJ misapplied the
law (Pet. Op. Br. at 1-15; Reply at 5), her reply also argues that the ALJ’s
findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence.  Specifically, Beyder points out that Daughter testified that she had not put locks
on the doors to prevent Beyder from leaving.  AR 152. 
From this, Beyder argues that the ALJ’s finding that Daughter never had
to stop her mother from leaving is unsupported. 
Reply at 9.  
This is a new issue raised for the first time in reply
and has been disregarded.  Regency Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc.,
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.  In
any event, the ALJ correctly concluded that Daughter never had to stop her
mother from leaving because Daughter testified to only three eloping instances
and did not say there were any aborted attempts.


[6] Beyder relies on a trial court
decision by former Judge Beckloff in Maryann L. v. Johnson, (“Maryann L.”) 2022 Cal. Super. LEXIS 84855.  There, an adult claimant applied for and was
denied protective supervision.  At the
administrative hearing, testimony was introduced that the claimant would engage
in dangerous behaviors of eloping, unsafe use of Ajax cleaning powder, touching
very hot items, and turning knobs on the gas oven.  The claimant
argued that DSS’s decision to deny protective services was flawed because it
failed to consider what claimant would “do if left alone”.  Judge Beckloff agreed and determined that the
ALJ applied the wrong legal standard when determining the claimant’s
eligibility for protective supervision. “The correct approach is to assess risk
as if [the claimant’s familial caretakers] are not present, and Petitioner is
instead alone.”  Reliance on other household members to protect a petitioner cannot
be used to deny protective supervision benefits.   Pet. Op. Br. at 13-14.
DSS’ opposition
points out that Maryann L.
is an unpublished trial court opinion and has no precedential value.  CRC 8.1115(a) & (b); see also TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court,
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 447, n. 2Therefore, any reference to this case is
inappropriate.  Further, DSS
distinguishes Maryann L.
as a case where the family acted to protect the claimant and the ALJ “failed to
assess Petitioner’s needs without regard to Petitioner’s household members
acting to protect her” whereas here the ALJ assessed Beyder’s needs without
regard to Daughter’s actions.  Opp. at
12-13.  
This
distinction applies to elopement but not the stove knobs.  Nonetheless, there were four different
potential dangerous activities in Maryann L. and, unlike here, Judge
Beckloff had no reason to conclude that the family had a duty to perform
safeguarding services for the adult claimant. 


[7]
Beyder makes a policy argument that considering
familial or household support when assessing a need for protective supervision
harms IHSS claimants by discouraging and disincentivizing familial
support.  Under the ALJ’s analysis and
conclusions, an applicant or their family would have no incentive to seek
familial, household, or even community support. 
Instead, the individual would be forced to survive on their own and
assume the great risk and likelihood of neglect or injury to garner necessary
and critical care.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16.
DSS’
opposition is correct that this policy argument is simply a reprise of Beyder’s
argument that Daughter’s presence should not be the basis for denial of
protective supervision.  Opp. at 14-15.  Daughter’s presence was not the basis of, or
a factor in determining, the denial of protective supervision for elopement and
was a legitimate factor for environmental modification.  


[8]
Bender also refers to the fact that she left the water running which the ALJ
expressly did not find to be potentially dangerous.  AR 12.

