 Case Number:  23VECV03559    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03559 LINDA NGUYEN,
AN INDIVIDUAL vs SKY ZONE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Sky Zone, LLC and SZ Socal, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action and the Request for Attorneys’
Fees and/or Sanctions are DENIED.
Plaintiff Linda Nguyen’s Request
for Sanctions is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendants Sky Zone, LLC and SZ
Socal, LLC dba Sky Zone Van Nuys, fka SZ Van Nuys Capital Partners, LLC
erroneously named/served as 7741 Hayvenhurst, LLC (collectively, Defendants)
moved to compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Linda Nguyen’s (Plaintiff)
action. Defendant requested attorneys’ fees and costs per the arbitration
agreement and/or monetary sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure sections 128.5
and 128.7 in the amount of $7,586.65. 
Plaintiff’s Opposition requested monetary sanctions per Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 in the amount of $4,800.00.     
This matter was originally heard
on February 9, 2024 and continued to this date to provide the parties with
notice and opportunity to be heard on the Court’s tentative ruling.  Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition was filed
on March 1, 2024 and supported the Court’s tentative.  Defendants’ supplemental reply was due March
7, 2024.  A supplemental reply was not
filed.
Discussion  
The Court is authorized to order
the arbitration of a controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists.  (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 1281.2.)  “Arbitration”
is not expressly defined in the statute. 
Arbitration may take many procedural forms.  However, a form of alternative dispute
resolution is not considered an “arbitration” unless it has the following
attributes:  “(1) a third party decision
maker; (2) a mechanism for ensuring neutrality with respect to the rendering of
the decision; (3) a decision maker who is chosen by the parties; (4) an
opportunity for both parties to be heard, and (5) a binding decision.
[Bolding added.]”  (Cheng-Canindin v.
Renaissance Hotel Associates (1996) 50 Cal. App.2d 676, 684-685.)  Finality is a core component of arbitration.  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 10.)  The Court noted that
Defendant’s “arbitration” agreement and Defendant’s motion is expressly
grounded on the “non-binding” nature of the arbitration.  Within Defendant’s arbitration agreement, the
“non-binding” nature of the arbitration was expressly stated eleven separate
times.  Because the agreement requires
“non-binding” arbitration, the Court is not authorized to enforce the agreement
per Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 because there is no finality and it
is not a binding decision.  
In deciding a motion/petition to
compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second
gateway issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the
agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) 
Because Defendant’s agreement requires “non-binding” arbitration,
Defendant failed to present facts showing the existence of an enforceable
“arbitration” agreement.  Defendants’
arguments are not persuasive.
The motion to compel arbitration
and stay of the action is DENIED.
Defendants’ request for
attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant the Participant Agreement is DENIED because
Defendants are not the prevailing parties on the motion to compel arbitration.
Both Plaintiff and Defendants
requested monetary sanctions with their respective moving papers and opposing
papers.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
128.7.)  Monetary sanctions under this
statute are required to be made separately from any other motion or request to
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
128.7(c)(1).)  Because both parties’
requests for sanctions were made within the moving and opposing papers and not
separately made, the requests are improper. 
Further, sanctions under this statute required compliance with a 21-day
safe harbor rule, which also required service of the actual motion/request for
sanctions.  (Id.)  Informal notice of an intent to seek
sanctions is insufficient to comply with the 21-day safe harbor rule.  (Martorana v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 685, 699.)  Both
Plaintiff and Defendants failed to comply with the 21-day safe harbor rule
because there was no showing that a separate motion was served 21 days prior to
the filing of the instant motion or opposition.   
Both Plaintiff and Defendants’
motion for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 are DENIED.
The Court noted that within
Defendants’ Points and Authorities Defendants also referenced a request for
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure, section 128.5.  (See Motion pg. 17:9 and 20.)  The request was not referenced in the
Notice.  A sanctions request under this
statute also required the request to be separately made from other requests to
the court and required service of the motion 21 days prior to filing the
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
128.5(f)(1)(A) and (B).)  As reviewed
above under 128.7, Defendants also failed to comply with the 128.5
requirements.  Further, monetary
sanctions under this statute requires notice and opportunity to be heard as
mandated by constitutional due process requirements.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 128.5(c).)  Defendants failed to provide proper notice
and opportunity to be heard because the Notice to the motion made no reference
to this statutory grounds for sanctions. 
Defendants’ request for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure, section
128.5, if any, is improper for the above defects.
Defendants’ request for sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, if any, is DENIED.
 IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.
[NOTE:  The denial of a motion to compel arbitration
is immediately appealable.  (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 1294(a).)  However, effective
January 1, 2024, there is no longer an automatic stay of the trial court
proceedings.] 
[NOTE: 
Plaintiff’s oppo referred to a Pratyush Kapur, a “Group Product Manager”
at Bird Rides, Inc.  (Opposition pgs.
5:9-16 and 11:5-12.)  It appeared that Plaintiff’s
Counsel “cut and paste” the Opposition and failed to delete reference to
non-party Bird Rides, Inc. and Mr. Kapur.]