  Case Number:  22STCV21696    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DANIEL
  SIMONI, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
STEVE
  LYNCH 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV21696 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a protective order is GRANTED.
 
On 7/5/2022,
Plaintiffs Daniel Simoni and Marc Wieland (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Steve Lynch (Defendant) seeking declaratory relief. 
 
            Now, Plaintiff Bigg Time Entertainment, Inc. (Plaintiff)
moves for a protective order providing that John Doe’s 3 personal identifying
information or likeness, including but not limited to a videotape of John Doe’s
deposition, (1) not be disclosed to anyone other than the attorneys in this
matter, and (2) not be disclosed by the attorneys publicly.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff seeks a protective order on behalf of “John
Doe”, an employee of Bigg Time Entertainment, Inc. Plaintiff argues that John
Does is entitled to accommodation pursuant to CCP section 2025.420 and
California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 1.100. 
 
            After reviewing Plaintiff’s unredacted filings, the Court
finds good cause exists to grant the protective order. Notably, Plaintiff does
not object to: (1) Defendant’s counsel possessing a copy of the video
deposition; (2) Defendant viewing the videotaped deposition with counsel; or
(3) Plaintiff possessing a copy of the deposition transcript. Rather, the scope
of the protective order only provides that Defendant not be allowed to possess
his own copy of the videotaped deposition. 
 
            In light of Plaintiff’s privacy concerns and medical
condition (which were disclosed under seal and thus are not discussed here),
and given the evidence presented of harassment and the risk of harassment
related to this litigation, the Court finds good cause to grant Plaintiff’s
request for a protective order. Importantly, there is no indication that
Defendant will suffer any prejudice as a result of this order.   
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a
protective order is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 