 Case Number:  22STCV28181    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



JEFFREY A. PARIS 
  
        
  vs.
 
ESTATE OF REYNOLD F. PARIS  
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV28181  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 27, 2023



 
Chabad of Ojai Valley (COV)’s motion to vacate the judgment and
dismiss based on failure to join an indispensable party is CONTINUED, to allow
the parties to file supplemental briefing consistent with the ruling set forth
below.  
 
            On
8/29/2022, Plaintiff Jeffrey A. Paris (Plaintiff) filed suit against the Estate
of Reynold F. Paris, trustee of the Paris Family Trust, alleging: (1)
rescission; (2) complaint in equity to set aside; (3) fraud; (4) fraud; (5)
common counts; (6) common counts; (7) constructive trust; and (8) negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            Now,
Chabad of Ojai Valley (COV) moves to set aside judgment and dismiss this case
for lack of jurisdiction over the internal affairs of trusts.
 
Discussion 
 
            This
action arises out of a Stipulated Judgment entered 2/6/2023, which struck, in
part, a $75,000 charitable gift to COV by the Third Amendment to the Paris
Family Trust. 
 
A person is an
indispensable party to litigation if his or her rights must necessarily be
affected by the judgment. Stated differently, ‘Where the plaintiff seeks some
type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure or affect the
interest of a third person not joined, that third person is an indispensable
party…’[a] judgment in an action not naming an
indispensable party ... is subject to later collateral attack by the non-joined
indispensable party.” (Washington Mutual Bank v. Blechman (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 662, 667, at p. 668, quoting Save of Bay, Inc. v. San Diego
Unified Port Dist. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 686.)
 
            Here, COV is a beneficiary of the
Third Amendment to the Paris Family Trust. (Nemtzov Decl., Exh. 1.) COV contends that it and Rabbi Nemtzov
were never parties to this case and were never served and had no notice of this
proceeding until the Stipulated Judgment was received. (RJN No. 1) 
 
            After review, the Court finds that supplemental briefing is necessary to
address several issues.   
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiff argues that COV cannot seek relief under CCP
section 473(d) because it is not a party. However, a nonparty “that is aggrieved by a judgment or
order may become a party of record and obtain a right to appeal by moving to
vacate the judgment.” (People v. Hernandez (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 715,
720.) “A motion to vacate in the trial court provides a means by which such a
nonparty may become a party to the litigation with a right of appeal without
the need to formally intervene in the action.” (Henry M. Lee Law Corp. v.
Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1382; 139 Cal.Rptr.3d 712.) As
such, a motion to vacate is a means by which a non-party can seek to become a
party to litigation. 
 
            However, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that COV has not filed any proposed pleading which it would file if
the judgment were set aside. “Application for this relief shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein,
otherwise the application shall not be granted" CCP §473(b). In this case, COV, as a non-party, can
only move to set aside the judgment. A request to dismiss the claim, which
concerns the merits of the case, can only be properly considered once a motion
to set aside has been granted, and COV has been made a party of record. As
such, COV’s request to dismiss is premature, and should have been filed as a
separate proposed pleading. 
 
            Second, COV argues that the judgment
is void. However, by COV’s own citation, “[t]he failure to join an
indispensable party invalidates the portions of the judgment that purport
to adjudicate that party's rights.” (Carpenters 46 N. Cal. Ctys.
Conf. Bd. v. Zweigle (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d 337, emphasis added.) Here,
COV’s motion concerns only the $75,000.00 charitable gift, while the judgment concerned
the entire third amendment of the Paris Family Trust.  COV has not set forth any basis as to why the
Court would or should set aside the entire judgment or dismiss the entire
action, when only the $75,000 gift to COV was impacted by the entry of
judgment, and only that specific portion of the judgment would be unenforceable
for a failure to join COV as an indispensable party. COV is to submit briefing
on the question. 
 
            Third, COV argues that the probate
court has exclusive jurisdiction over this case and argues that “[t]his case,
which essentially contests the Trust, required Notice to Chabad of Ojai. This
certainly would have been required in Probate Court.” (Motion, 8: 23-24.)
However, in opposition, Plaintiff claims that COV was served on 7/11/2022 with
a probate petition, and that COV never responded to that petition. Moreover,
Plaintiff contends that this case can no longer proceed in probate. 
 
            Both parties are to submit further
briefing clarifying whether or not this case can proceed in probate, whether or
not COV had notice of the probate claim, and why COV did not file any pleadings
or seek any relief if it did. Moreover, Plaintiff is to clarify why it notified
COV of its impacted rights as part of the probate process, but did not notify
COV that it was filing this action. In other words, Plaintiff is to clarify why
he believed COV was an impacted party for probate, but did not consider COV an
indispensable party in this civil action. While Plaintiff clarifies that he did
not serve COV in this case because he was not seeking specific damages from COV,
Plaintiff has not advanced any substantive argument, supported by case law,
that COV was not, in fact, an indispensable party because of its interest in
property impacted by Plaintiff’s claims.
 
Based on the foregoing, COV’s motion to vacate the judgment and
dismiss based on failure to join an indispensable party is continued to allow
supplemental briefing, consistent with the ruling set forth above. 
 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
October    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  
 
            Due to Covid-19, the court is strongly
discouraging in-person appearances. 
Parties, counsel, and court reporters present are subject to temperature
checks and health inquiries, and will be denied entry if admission could create
a public health risk.  The court
encourages the parties wishing to argue to appear via L.A. Court Connect.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  Your
understanding during these difficult times is appreciated.