 Case Number:  BC670455    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL
  CHANG 
                           
         vs.
 
FRANCIS
  SEONGJIN RYU 
 


 Case No.: 
  BC670455
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 27, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for a new trial is DENIED.
 
            On
8/1/2017, Plaintiff Michael Chang filed suit against Francis Seongjin Ryu
alleging extortion.
 
Now,
Plaintiff moves for a new trial. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
A verdict may be vacated and any other decision may be modified or
vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial granted on all or part
of the issues on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party:¿ 
¿ 
(1)¿Irregularity in the proceedings of the court,
jury¿or adverse party, or any order of the court
or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial;¿ 
¿ 
(2)¿Misconduct of the jury;¿and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been
induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
question submitted to them by the court, by are sort to the determination of
chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors;¿ 
¿ 
(3) Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against;¿ 
¿ 
(4) Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial;¿ 
¿ 
(5) Excessive or inadequate damages;¿ 
¿ 
(6) Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law;¿ 
¿ 
(7) Error in¿law,
occurring at the trial and¿excepted
to by the party making the application.¿ 
¿ 
(See CCP § 657.)¿ 
¿ 
When ruling on an application for a new
trial, the court sits as an independent trier of fact.¿(Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.4th¿405, 412.)¿The
court, therefore, has broad discretion to order new trials, limited only by the
obligation to state its reasons for granting a new trial and the existence of
substantial evidence in the record to support those reasons.¿(Id.)¿¿In
assessing¿the need for a new trial,¿the court must rely on its¿view of the overall record,¿taking into account such
factors, among others, as the nature and seriousness of the¿alleged¿misconduct,
the general¿atmosphere, including the judge’s control, of
the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and the efficacy of
objection or admonition under all the circumstances.¿(Dominguez v. Pantalone¿(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d¿201, 211.)¿ 
 
Procedural
Background 
 
Plaintiff’s
extortion claims arises from a settlement communication which took place
between Defendant, while representing his client Johnny Choi, and Plaintiff’s
attorney Shi Young Lim, Esq. Trial commenced on 6/6/2023 (with motions in
limine having been heard on 6/2/2023), and on 6/9/2023, the jury rendered its
Verdict, awarding no damages to Plaintiff. (See Verdict, Teel Decl., Exh. A. )
On 8/24/2023, the court entered Judgment in favor of Defendant, awarding
Defendant costs “per memo of costs.”
 
Discussion 
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that a new trial is warranted because: (1) the Court failed to
give Plaintiff’s requested jury instruction regarding nominal damages; (2) the
Court erroneously granted Defendant’s Motions in Limine Nos. 3 and 4; (3) the jury
erred in not awarding any emotional distress damages; and (4) there were
irregularities in the proceedings caused by Defendant’s closing statement. 
 
As to the
first point, Plaintiff argues that the Court improperly denied his proposed
jury instruction allowing the jury to award nominal damages. However, as noted
in Defendant’s opposition, the Court extensively conferred with the parties
over this proposed instruction during the trial, and concluded the instruction
was not proper after Plaintiff could not produce any authority which indicated
that nominal damages were recoverable in an extortion action. (See June
8, 2023 Reporter’s Transcript, 102:14:28; 103:1-13, Exhibit A.)
 
However,
setting this aside, the jury concluded that there were no actual damages
suffered. Plaintiff was provided the opportunity to prove actual damage and the
jury concluded that there were zero actual damages. Plaintiff has not presented
any evidence or argument to show that the lack of a nominal damages instruction
had any impact on the jury’s award of zero actual damages. As such, nominal
damages cannot be awarded on retrial because the underlying tort – extortion –
was not established. In any action sounding in tort (such as extortion),
“nominal damages to vindicate a technical right cannot be recovered … where no
actual loss has occurred,” because without actual damage – a vital element to
any cause of action sounding in tort – no liability for the underlying tort is
proved. (See Engle v. City of Oroville (1965) 238 Cal.App.2d 266, 274.) 
 
There is also
no indication that the jury would have awarded nominal damages. Indeed, both of
Plaintiff’s proposed jury instructions on the issue of nominal damages (CACI
360, re: breach of contract and Civil Code 3660) provided only that the jury
“may” award nominal damages in certain situations, not that the jury “shall”
award those damages. 
 
Finally, a
new trial to hear nominal damages would require a re-trial of the entire case.
As noted by Defendant, this would be improper for two reasons. First, it would
present issues for trying this case in an unlimited jurisdiction, given the
$25,000 jurisdictional limit for unlimited cases. Second, California Courts
have held that a unless reversal would assure costs for the moving party (thus
permitting Plaintiff a recovery for more than a “trifle”), a verdict failing to
award nominal damages where they are recoverable is alone not grounds for a new
trial. (Sweet v. Johnson (1959) 169 Cal.App.2d 630; see Sill
Properties, Inc. v. CMAG, Inc. (1963) 219 Cal.App.2d 42, 55-56, and Walker
v. Pacific Indemnity Co. (1960) 183 Cal.App.2d 513, 517.) 
 
As to the
second contention, Plaintiff argues that he is entitled to a new trial because
the Court incorrectly granted Defendant’s Motions in Limine excluding
Plaintiff’s reference to attorneys fees. In support, Plaintiff (just as in his
Motions in Limine) cites to Brandt v Superior Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d.
813, 817-819 and Nelson v Kellog (1912) 162 Cal. 621, 623-624. Plaintiff
also references the “Avenatti case” but does not cite the actual
decision or attach a copy of the decision. 
 
            As
noted in its ruling on the Motions in Limine, all ll of Plaintiff’s cases are
distinguishable.  In Fuhrman, the
Court there expressly explained why the Brandt decision did not support an attorneys fees
claim in an extortion action:
 
The fatal flaw in
plaintiff's action is that she apparently never paid the
money defendants demanded in their letters. The only actual damages plaintiff
alleges are her emotional distress and attorney fees.
 
Attorney
fees are not recoverable here, as there is no agreement for the payment of fees
and no applicable statutory provision for the recovery of fees. (Code Civ.Proc., § 1021.) In Brandt
v. Superior Court (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 210
Cal.Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796, the court suggests, in somewhat broad language, that
whenever attorney fees are incurred as a result of the defendant's tortious
conduct, such fees are an economic loss and therefore recoverable as damages.
However, we construe such language to be limited to the factual setting
of Brandt, supra,
and the particular conduct at issue. The precise issue in Brandt was
articulated at the beginning of the opinion: “When an insurer tortiously
withholds benefits, are attorney's fees, reasonably incurred to compel payment
of the policy benefits, recoverable as an element of the damages resulting from
such tortious conduct? We hold they are....” (37 Cal.3d at p. 815, 210
Cal.Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796; fn. omitted.) “When an insurer's
tortious conduct reasonably compels the insured to retain an attorney to obtain
the benefits due under a policy, it follows that the insurer should be liable
in a tort action for that expense. The attorney's fees are an economic
loss—damages—proximately caused by the tort....” (37 Cal.3d at p. 817, 210
Cal.Rptr. 211, 693 P.2d 796.)
 
            (Fuhrman v. Satellite Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, 426-27
(overruled on other grounds as stated in Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50
Cal.3d 205.)
 
            In other words, the
Fuhrman court explained that in the facts presented in Brandt,
the plaintiff was entitled to recover attorneys fees because the plaintiff,
unlike here, was forced to retain an attorney in order to enforce a contractual
right and recover contractual insurance benefits due under an insurance policy
which had been withheld by the bad faith of the insurer, and that it was that
contractual claim which entitled the Plaintiff to attorneys fees.
 
            The
Nelson case is similarly distinguishable, as it did not involve a civil
extortion claim. Rather, in Nelson, the plaintiff there was arrested due
to a civil warrant that was caused to be issued by the defendant, and had to
hire an attorney in order to obtain a discharge from the unlawful arrest. The
Nelson court permitted the recovery of attorneys fees, as Plaintiff was forced
to incur that expense in order to obtain a discharge of the arrest. 
 
            Finally,
as for the Avenatti case, Plaintiff presumably refers to the Second
Circuit decision entitled People v. Avenatti, issued in August of 2023,
2023 WL5597835. As a preliminary matter, a Second Circuit case is not binding
on this Court. Second, “[t]hat decision does not support Plaintiff’s argument.
Mr. Avenatti was convicted of various crimes, including extortion and wire
fraud. That court addressed, among other things, the Mandatory Victims
Restitution Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3663A), requiring a court to order full
restitution to victims of certain crimes after a defendant is sentenced.
Avenatti has no relevance to the present action, as there is no evidence that
Defendant was ever convicted of the crime of extortion, and there has been no
finding that Plaintiff is a crime victim entitled to restitution under 18
U.S.C. § 3663A.” (Opp., 16: 11-16.) 
 
            In
sum, Plaintiff has failed to present authority to show that he was entitled to
introduce “of-out-pocket expenses” as recoverable damages, such that the Court
erred in its rulings on the Motions in Limine. 
 
            As
to the third contention, Plaintiff claims that the jury clearly erred in not
awarding any emotional distress because there was uncontroverted evidence that
Plaintiff suffered emotional distress. 
 
            A
jury is the sole judge of the credibility of a witness, and is free to
disbelieve the witness and disregard the witness’s testimony, even where that
testimony was uncontradicted, as long as there was any rational ground for
doing do. (See e.g. In re Jessica C (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1043; Schmidt
v. Superior Court (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 570, 582; Foreman & Clark
Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 890.) 
 
At trial,
Plaintiff “testified that due to Defendant’s alleged conduct, [] he lost
weight, does not talk to friends or anyone except his current attorney Chad
Biggins, that he got held up for 2 hours probably 4 times he went through US
Customs; that he does not travel as he does not want to deal with US Customs,
has a financial hardship with getting a line of credit from Chinese
manufacturers, and that he is scared of police officers or law enforcement, all
of which he described as “really tough”. He claims these damages have occurred
for seven years.” (Opp., 17: 11-16; Reporter’s Transcript, 128:10-25; 129:1-8;
134:3-18; 135:8-12; 147:4-21, attached as Exh. G.) 
 
            However,
Plaintiff’s testimony also “revealed that he has never consulted with any
doctors or other medical care providers, nor has he ever taken medication,
despite his testimony that his emotional distress has gone on for years, which
he attempted to explain away by stating he does not like hospitals. (See June
7, 2023 Reporter’s Transcript, 147:16-28; 148:1-3, 18-23, attached as Exhibit
“G”.). Additionally, Plaintiff did not present any evidence at trial that US
Customs ever stopped him due to any conduct of Defendant, or that any alleged,
unspecified financial issues with Chinese manufacturers were the result of any
conduct of Defendants, including any evidence that Defendant had any
communications with US Customs or any Chinese manufacturers. Defendant
testified that he never contacted US Customs or any other authority with
regarding to Plaintiff. (June 7, 2023 Reporter’s Transcript, 98:1-11.” (Opp.,
17: 18-27.) 
 
            As
such, there was a rational basis for the jury’s unanimous decision that
Plaintiff had not suffered any emotional distress damages.
 
            As
for the final contention, Plaintiff argues that defense counsel showed the jury
“pictures” which were not admitted into evidence, nor previously shown to
Plaintiff’s counsel, and that this was highly prejudicial and contributed to
decision to not award emotional distress damages.
 
            However,
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence with respect to what pictures were
shown to the jury, or described their content, or provided any other
information about those pictures. As such, the Court has no basis from which to
determine if the photos, in fact, caused prejudice requiring retrial. Second,
Plaintiff does not offer any substantive argument as to how the photos were
prejudicial. Even in reply, Plaintiff did not take the opportunity to address
or compensate for this issue. Rather, Plaintiff’s response to this issue in
full was “[f]inally, regarding emotional distress, there was no evidence
controverting Mr. Chang’s testimony. The jury clearly erred in not awarding any
emotional distress, caused largely in part due to defense counsel’s pictures
shown at closing.” (Reply, 2: 23-25.) 
 
            As
such, the Court has no basis for concluding that pictures were presented which
were so prejudicial that they in any way impacted the jury’s verdict. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
            
 
 