 Case Number:  23STCV06520    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  29 Rosas
v. Ava Arts District
23STCV06520
Defendant’s Motion to
Bifurcate Trial
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial 
Tentative
The motion to bifurcate is denied without
prejudice.
The motion to continue trial is granted in
part.
Background
On March 24, 2023, Plaintiff Raul Gutierrez Rosas
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Ava Arts
District, L.P. (“Ava”); Covi Concrete Construction, Inc. (“Defendant”); and
Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability arising out of fall at a construction site on February 2, 2022, at or
near 1540 East Industrial Street in Los Angeles.
Ava and Defendant filed answers on May 18, 2023.
On April 18, 2024, the Court granted Ava’s
motion for summary judgment.
On December 20, 2024, the Court denied
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
There are two matters before the Court and set for hearing
on January 3, 2025.
First, on December 3, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to
bifurcate. Plaintiff filed an opposition on December 19, and Defendant filed a
reply on December 26.
Second, on December 6, 2024, Defendant filed the motion
to continue trial. Plaintiff filed an opposition on December 19, and Defendant filed
a reply on December 26. 
Legal Standard
Motion to Bifurcate
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action … or of any separate
issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (b).)  The court has general discretion to order
certain issues tried before others “when the convenience of witnesses, the ends
of justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
598.)
Motion to Continue
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion 
Motion to Bifurcate
Defendant moves to bifurcate the issues of
liability and damages. 
In cases assigned to the Personal Injury Hub,
the case will be tried by a different judge than the one assigned to rule on
this motion. The Court finds that because of the close relationship between
bifurcation motions and trial management, it is appropriate in this matter for
the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is warranted.
A motion to bifurcate is not a motion in
limine. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.57(c).) Nonetheless, as it relates to
management of the trial proceedings, a motion to bifurcate has certain
attributes that are similar to motions in limine. And, in cases assigned to the
Personal Injury Hub, the trial judge (not the judge in the Personal Injury Hub)
rules on all motions in limine. While this bifurcation request is not a motion
in limine, the logic of having the trial judge determine it here is similar.
The request for bifurcation here appears to be one for which the trial judge
should make a discretionary determination based on its role in managing the
trial proceedings.
Accordingly, the Court rules that Defendant may
submit a motion for bifurcation at the time that motions in limine are filed.
Any other party may submit an opposition when oppositions to motions in limine
are filed. The Court orders that the bifurcation briefing be included in the
trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in limine filed in the case. If
there is any issue with regard to Rule of Court 3.57, Defendant or any other
party may direct the trial court to this order (which of course does not impose
any obligation on the trial judge with regard to ruling on the motion). 
Motion to Continue
Defendant requests
a trial continuance. 
Defendant appeared
in this matter in May 2023.  At the time,
the case was set for trial on September 20, 2024.  
Defendant filed
its motion for summary judgment on June 5, 2024.  The motion was initially scheduled to be
heard on February 21, 2025.  The Court
subsequently advanced the summary judgment hearing date to December 6, 2024,
and continued the trial date to January 30, 2025.
According to
Defendant, in response to a supplemental interrogatory, Plaintiff served
responses on July 26, 2024, that identified 19 health care providers that
treated him for the various injuries he attributes to the accident.  (Real Decl., ¶ 5.)  Moreover, Defendant states that the medical
records identify a total of more than 35 individual medical treaters.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff is continuing to receive treatment
for his injuries.  (Id., ¶¶ 7, 9-10.)
Defendant contends
that a continuance is necessary to complete discovery.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that given
the nature and severity of his injuries, any delay in inherently prejudicial.
The Court
recognizes that each side asserts legitimate interests.  Defendant has been reasonably diligent and
needs some additional time to complete discovery.  Plaintiff is continuing to receive treatment,
which of course complicates matters – but the Court also recognizes that
Plaintiff may continue to receive treatment for months or years, and at some
point the discovery process must end and the parties must prepare for trial.  Plaintiff certainly has a legitimate interest
in moving toward resolution, but given the nature and extent of the injuries
for which he seeks compensation, and the large number of health care providers
who have provided treatment to him, discovery will necessarily take longer in
this case than in many other, more simple cases.
The Court has considered
the evidence in the record and the arguments of each side.  The Court finds that, on balance, good cause has
been shown for some continuance of the trial date, but not as long of a
continuance as Defendant requests.
Accordingly, the motion
to continue trial is granted in part.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendant’s
motion to bifurcate.
The Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s motion
to continue trial.
The Court CONTINUES the trial to a date on or
after April 1, 2025.
The Court CONTINUES the Final Status
Conference and resets all discovery deadlines based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.