  Case Number:  21STCV13446    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  29 Fox v. City of Beverly Hills
21STCV13446
Motion for Leave for Mental (Neuropsychological) Examination of Plaintiff filed
by Defendant City of Beverly Hills
 
Tentative
The motion is granted, subject to the
conditions set forth in this order.
 
Background
Plaintiff Martha Fox (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on March
8, 2020, she sustained severe and permanent injuries after falling on uneven
cement in an alleyway at or near 404 North Palm Drive in Beverly Hills. She
filed the complaint in this action on April 8, 2021, asserting causes of action
for premises liability and negligence against City of Beverly Hills (“City”),
Excel Paving Company, and Does 1 through 50.
On May 13, 2021, City filed its answer to the complaint.
On the same day, City filed a cross-complaint for indemnity against Palp, Inc.
dba Excel Paving Company (“Excel”) and Roes 1 through 50.
On April 18, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint to
name Excel as Doe 1.
Excel filed its answer to the complaint and
cross-complaint on September 12, 2022.
On December
4, 2024, City filed this motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of
Plaintiff. 
No
opposition has been filed. 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition … of that
party or other person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)
Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd.
(b).) The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff
alleges continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996)
50 Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at
840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional distress and the
defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims it was not caused
by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative
sources for the distress.” (Ibid.)  
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
Discussion
Plaintiff claims to have suffered a traumatic
brain injury as a result of her accident. 
(Lee Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. L, No. 6.2.) 
Accordingly, City seeks leave to conduct a mental (neuropsychological)
examination of Plaintiff.  In their
motion, City identify the proposed examiner (Dr. Ari Kalechstein); the
examiner’s specialty (neuropsychology); the date, time, and location of the
testing; and the scope and nature of the examination (the taking of a history
and the administration of up to 28 enumerated tests).  The motion is supported by a meet-and-confer
declaration.  (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 5-9 &
Exh. O.)
Plaintiff has not opposed this motion. 
The Court has considered City’s moving papers and
finds that all requirements are met.  The
motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff is granted.
The Court now turns to two additional issues
raised by City in its moving papers. 
Both of these issues apparently arose in the meet-and-confer process
between counsel.
First, City seeks an order prohibiting
Plaintiff from audio recording the examination. 
That request is denied.  Plaintiff
has a clear and express statutory right under Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.530 to record the entire examination. 
If the examiner refuses to permit the recording, Plaintiff may unilaterally
terminate the examination.
Second, City seeks an order stating that the
raw test data and testing materials be provided only to Plaintiff’s expert, and
not to Plaintiff or her counsel.  This is
an issue that has been vigorously litigated in a number of cases, and has led
to at least one prominent Court of Appeal decision in Randy’s Trucking v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818.  But here, Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to the motion, and so there is no indication from Plaintiff that she
opposes this restriction or seeks some alternative order or condition.  Accordingly, in the absence of an opposition,
this request by City is granted.
Conclusion 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
for leave to conduct a mental (neuropsychological) examination of Plaintiff.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear and
be subject to a neuropsychological examination by Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D., at
Executive Mental Health, 11835 West Olympic Boulevard, Suite 1270E, Los
Angeles, California 90064, on January 24, 2025, at 10:30 a.m.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff may not
be questioned concerning her conversations with her counsel, nor any person
affiliated with her counsel or counsel’s offices. 
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff may not
be questioned concerning her counsel’s evaluation of any of Plaintiff’s claims
against any of the Defendants, nor about any discussions Plaintiff has had with
counsel regarding such evaluations.
 
The Court ORDERS that Dr. Kalechstein may administer the
following tests:

a. B–Test: vigilance and information processing speed. 

b. Auditory Consonant Trigrams: working memory. 

c. Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Exam and/or Western Aphasia Battery: language. 

d. Brief Visuospatial Memory Test – Revised: learning and memory. 

e. California Verbal Learning Test – 2 or 3: learning and memory. 

f. Continuous Performance Test – 2 or 3: attention/information processing
speed. 

g. Controlled Oral Word Association Test: language and/or executive function. 

h. Delis-Kaplan Executive Functioning System: Executive function. 

i. Dot Counting Test: information processing speed. 

j. Finger Tapping Test: motor function. 

k. Grooved Pegboard Test: motor function. 

l. Judgment of Line Orientation: perception of the environment. 

m. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 or 2-RF or 3:
personality/emotional functioning. 

n. Personality Assessment Inventory: personality/emotional functioning. 

o. Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test: learning and memory.


p. Rey–Osterrieth Complex Figure Test: visuoperception,
learning and memory, and/or executive function. 

q. Ruff Figural Fluency Test: executive function. 

r. Scholastic Abilities Test for Adults (SATA): academic achievement. 

s. Selective Reminding Test: learning and memory and/or executive function. 

t. Stroop Test: attention/information processing speed and/or executive
function. 

u. Symbol Digit Modalities Test: attention/information processing speed. 

v. TOMM: learning and memory. 

w. Trailmaking Test-Parts A and B attention/information processing speed and/or
executive function. 

x. Victoria Symptom Validity Test: attention/information processing speed. 

y. Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale – III or IV: intelligence. 

z. Wechsler Memory Scale – III or IV: learning and memory. 

aa. Wisconsin Card Sorting Test: executive function. 

bb. Woodcock–Johnson Tests of Academic Achievement – IV: academic achievement.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff must be
permitted to record the entire examination by audio technology.  
The Court ORDERS that if the examiner refuses
to permit Plaintiff to record the entire examination, or any part of it, or
otherwise substantially interferes with the recording, Plaintiff may unilaterally
terminate the examination, without the need for further court order.
The Court ORDERS moving
party to give notice.