 Case Number:  23STCV03606    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 5,
2023
Case Name:                             Omanoff, et al.
v. Cohen, et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV03606
Motion:                                  Demurrer without
Motion to Strike
Moving Party:                         Defendants Cynthia
Cohen and Brown, White & Osborn, LLP (“Defendants”)
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs Rodney Omanoff,
VOIP, LLC, and VOIP Guardian Partners II, LLC(“Plaintiffs”)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Defendants’
Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Defendants to give
notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This is an action for legal
malpractice and breach of contract. Defendants Cynthia Cohen and Brown, White
& Osborn, LLP (“Defendants”) demur to the Complaint as to the causes of
action for professional malpractice and breach of contract on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against
Defendants. Specifically, Defendants argue that the Complaint is barred by the
Statute of Limitations and there is no applicable basis to toll Plaintiffs’
claims.
            The Complaint arises out of two
adversary actions in the United States Bankruptcy Court in which Plaintiffs
were sued: Timothy Yoo, Chapter 7 Trustee v. VOIP Guardian LLC et al.,
USBC Central District of California Adv. No. 2:21-ap-01044-BR; and Timothy
Yoo, Chapter 7 Trustee v. Wavecrest (UK) Ltd et al., USBC Central District
of California Adv. No. 2:21-ap-01046-BR. (the “Underlying Actions”). The
Complaint alleges as follows: Plaintiffs they tendered their defense and
indemnity against the Underlying Actions to Certain Underwriters at Lloyds (“Lloyd’s”)
and XL Specialty Insurance Company who accepted the tenders under a reservation
of rights. (Compl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs retained Cynthia Cohen of Brown, White
& Osborn as independent defense counsel for the Underlying Actions under California
Civil Code section 2860. (Id. ¶ 9.) On December 30, 2021, Cohen
scheduled a call with Plaintiffs’ coverage counsel Mikaela Whitman of Pasich,
LLP and advised Ms. Whitman that: 1) a December 10, 2021, Settlement Demand
from counsel for the chapter 7 trustee was a “sham” offer and not a real offer;
and 2) Cohen and Jason Komorsky, of BG Law, special counsel for the chapter 7
trustee, knew the insurers would not accept the Settlement Demand but it was to
set up a bad faith claim against the Insurers, get it on the record, and gage
the insurers’ reaction. This telephone call was Plaintiffs’ first notice of
these actions by Cohen. (Id. ¶ 10.) Cohen’s actions presented a
substantial risk to Plaintiffs in that the insurers could claim that there was
collusion between Plaintiffs and the chapter 7 trustee and that the pursuit of the
claim for coverage and the settlement demand were fraudulent. Given the
pendency of the coverage action, there also was a substantial risk that
Plaintiffs' credibility, as well as the substantive merits of their claim,
would be adversely affected. Because of these risks, no reasonable attorney in
Cohen’s position would have taken her actions. (Id. ¶ 12.) In order to
reasonably mitigate their damages and the possibility of adverse determinations,
Plaintiffs needed to disclose Cohen’s actions to the insurers. Not
surprisingly, when these facts were disclosed to the insurers, the insurers
immediately reserved their rights to deny or limit coverage on this issue for
the Underlying Actions. Thereafter, while still reserving their rights on these
issues, the insurers subsequently filed a motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs
decided not to contest the summary judgment motion or pursue coverage from the insurers
for the Underlying Actions. Plaintiffs’ decision was premised, in part, upon
the fact that even if they prevailed on the motion for summary judgment, they
could still lose the coverage litigation because of Cohen's actions, as well as
face the possibility of other prejudice, such as possible claims of insurance
fraud and damage to their credibility affecting their defense against other
claims. (Id. ¶ 12.) 
            On September 1, 2023, Defendants
filed this demurrer to the Complaint.
            On September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
an opposition.
            On September 28, 2023, Defendants filed
a reply.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendants’ Requests for Judicial
Notice are GRANTED in full. 
DISCUSSION
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context,
and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v.
Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) 
The statute of limitations for legal malpractice actions is
contained in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6(a). Under this statute, the
one-year limitations period commences when the plaintiff actually or
constructively discovers the facts of the wrongful act or omission, but no
later than four years. However, this limitations period is tolled
until the plaintiff suffers actual loss or damage resulting from the allegedly
negligent actions and/or while the attorney continues to represent the client
in the same matter. For purposes of the tolling rule, the test for “actual
injury” under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6 is whether the plaintiff
has sustained any damages compensable in an action. Under this standard, the
fact of damage rather than the amount, is the critical factor. (Pointe San
Diego Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch,
LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 275.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s first
cause of action fails because it is time-barred by the aforementioned statute
of limitations. Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s legal malpractice claim
accrued prior to February 2, 2022 when the filing of the substitutions of
attorneys occurred. According to the Complaint, Defendants allegedly engaged in
wrongdoing in connection with the trustee’s December 10, 2021 settlement demand
and provided assistance to counsel for the trustee in drafting an amended
complaint, purportedly to implicate insurance coverage. (Compl. ¶10.)
Plaintiffs contend that they learned of these actions in a December 30, 2021
telephone call between Defendants and Plaintiffs’ coverage counsel, Mikaela
Whitman. (Id.) Defendants claim that the allegations in the Complaint
establish that Plaintiffs not only knew of Defendants’ alleged actions at that
time, but Plaintiffs also appreciated that the actions were allegedly wrongful
since Plaintiffs disclosed the actions of Defendants which presented a substantial
risk to Plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶¶ 11, 12.) Plaintiffs’ Complaint was not filed
until February 17, 2023, well over a year after they incurred attorneys’ fees
of new counsel1 (Compl. ¶13), and well over a year after the December 30, 2021
telephone call.
As to tolling, Defendants claim that
Plaintiffs learned of the insurance-related conduct as of December 30, 2021 and
sustained immediate harm to Plaintiff’s coverage position. Plaintiffs also
sustained damages when they incurred fees and costs in obtaining replacement
counsel, which they filed substitutions for on February 2, 2022 and made
further filings on February 9, 2022. Finally, Defendants state that continuity
of representation is not a ground for tolling here since Plaintiffs filed a
substitution of attorney and the docket for the Underlying Adversary
Proceedings reflects immediate takeover of the representation by Plaintiffs’
new counsel. (Newcomb Decl. ¶¶5-8.) 
            Plaintiffs do not dispute that they
were aware of Defendants’ malpractice more than one year before the complaint
was filed but claims that the limitations period was tolled until Plaintiff
sustained actual injury, which was the loss of insurance coverage for the
defense and indemnity of the bankruptcy actions. Plaintiffs assert this could
not have occurred prior to February 22 or 23, 2022, which is the date Plaintiff
Omanoff informed Lloyd’s of Defendant Cohen’s actions. Plaintiff states when
Lloyd’s learned of Cohen’s actions it reserved its rights to deny or limit
coverage for the bankruptcy actions based on her conduct, but did not withdraw
coverage. There was thus, still no “actual damages” at this point and even if
there was, Lloyd’s reserved rights less than a year before the complaint in
this action was filed, so the limitations period did not run. Plaintiffs claim
they were not actually damaged until when faced with the summary judgment
motion Plaintiff Omanoff decided it was not worthwhile to oppose it. As to
Defendant’s argument that replacement counsel fees constitutes actual damages
which would trigger the statute of limitations, Plaintiffs claim that they did
not actually pay for replacement counsel’s work because Lloyd’s agreed to pay
for Plaintiff Omanoff’s defense and it was not until March 14, 2023 that
Lloyd’s informed Omanoff that it would not pay replacement counsel’s fees to
get up to speed (following Defendants’ representation of Plaintiffs). 
            In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs sustained their alleged damages in December 2021 following Cohen’s
call with Plaintiff’s coverage counsel because Plaintiffs attempted to mitigate
damages and the possibility of adverse determinations. As a result of Cohen’s
actions, Plaintiffs assert they needed to disclose Cohen’s actions to the
insurers. The Court agrees that this shows Plaintiffs sustained damages as of
December 2021 since they allege that they disclosed Cohen’s actions in order to
reasonably mitigate their damages. However, the Court finds that the Complaint
does not establish that Plaintiffs suffered actual injury in February 2 or 9,
2022, when they substituted counsel because Plaintiffs were not made aware that
they would have to pay replacement counsel’s fees until March 14, 2023, when
Lloyd’s informed Plaintiffs that it would not pay those fees incurred to get
replacement counsel up to speed. Plaintiffs reasonably believed that they did
not incur those fees because Lloyd’s agreed to pay for Omanoff’s defense and
Omanoff submitted the invoice from replacement counsel to Lloyd’s for payment. 
            Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the allegations that Plaintiffs mitigated damages
following the December 31, 2021 phone call. 

CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants
to give notice.      
If counsel do not submit on the tentative,
they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
