 Case Number:  23STCV14410    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 5,
2023
Case Name:                             Youssef v. Loss
Prevention Services, LLC, et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV14410
Motion:                                  Motion to Strike
(not anti-SLAPP)
Moving Party:                         Defendants Loss
Prevention Services, LLC and Benchmark Asset Resolution, Inc.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Ihab Youssef
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Strike is CONTINUED. 
 
Defendants to give
notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This is an action regarding
Plaintiff’s financing for the purchase of a 2015 Nissan Altima which was
repossessed when he fell behind on his loan payments. Plaintiff alleges causes
of action for (1) Violations of the Collateral Recovery Act; (2) Violations of
the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; (3) Conversion; and (4)
Violations of the Unfair Competition Law. Defendants Loss Prevention Services,
LLC and Benchmark Asset Resolution, Inc. seek to strike portions of the
Complaint on the grounds that they constitute irrelevant, improper, superfluous
matter, are not drawn in conformity with the laws of the California.
            On September 18, 2023, Defendants
filed this instant motion. On September 28, 2023, they filed a reply, which
addresses Plaintiff’s opposition. However, no opposition has been filed with
the Court. As such, the Court continues the hearing on this motion so as to
consider the opposition. Plaintiff is to file an opposition within 10 days of
notice of this order.
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Strike is CONTINUED.
Moving parties to give notice. 
If counsel do not submit on the tentative,
they are strongly encouraged to appear by  LACourtConnect rather than in person due to
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
            
 
