  Case Number:  22STCV29339    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 5,
2023
Case Name:                             Siler v. Joey
Restaurant Inc.
Case No.:                                22STCV29339
Motion:                                  Motion to
Compel Arbitration
Moving Party:                         Defendants Joey
Restaurant (Los Angeles) and Joey Restaurant (Woodland Hills) Inc. (“Defendants”)
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Kalkidan Siler (“Plaintiff”)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The Court STAYS
this action pending the resolution of arbitration.
 
Defendants to give
notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This is an employment action.
Defendants Joey Restaurant (Los Angeles) Inc. and Joey Restaurant (Woodland
Hills) Inc. seek to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration
agreement purportedly signed by Plaintiff Kalkidan as a component of her
employment. 
Plaintiff argues that the subject
agreement is unenforceable because it violates contract formation and
interpretation, it is procedurally and substantively unconscionable, and it is
precluded by the Ending Force Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act of 2021 (“EFA”).
First, as to the existence of a valid
agreement, Plaintiff does not dispute that she did not sign the purported
arbitration agreements, rather she asserts that the document which she and
Defendants signed was a single page of generic boilerplate language which did
not state anything about arbitrating the claims at bar and that this document
could have been attached to any number of preceding pages. However, Defendants
provide a sworn affidavit by Genieva Helm, the assistant general manager for
Joey Restaurant (Woodland Hills) to show that Plaintiff was made aware that the
document she signed dealt with arbitration. While Defendants also provide the
declaration of Zach Helm, the head chef for Joey Restaurant (Los Angeles) who
also worked for Joey Restaurant (Woodland Hills), the declaration will not be
considered because it fails to provide the date of execution. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2015.5.) Ms. Helm declares that in 2019, she conducted a new employee
orientation which Plaintiff attended, and that she read the entire arbitration
agreement and addressed any questions by employees. (Helm Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Ms.
Helm states that Plaintiff did not ask for more time to review and that she did
not have any questions. (Id. ¶ 4.) While Ms. Helm’s declaration is
sufficient to satisfy that the arbitration agreement signed in 2019 was clearly
identified as an arbitration agreement, Defendants provide no evidence making a
similar showing for the purported arbitration agreement signed in 2020. Defendants
only provide a declaration by Beth Bolyard, the vice president of human
resources for Defendants, which provides that Plaintiff signed another
arbitration agreement on May 4, 2020. However, based on the new employee
orientation procedures Ms. Helm provides and the 2020 document itself,
Defendants sufficiently show that Plaintiff was likely aware that she was
signing an arbitration agreement. Indeed, the signature page of the 2020
agreement mentions both an arbitrator and the Federal Arbitration Act. These
words alone would be sufficient to put Plaintiff on notice as to the nature of
the document she was signing. Thus, Defendants satisfy their burden in showing that
there was an agreement to arbitrate. 
As to the scope of Plaintiff’s claims, the
Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement applies to the claims at issue as
they arose from Plaintiff’s employment Defendants. The agreed to submit to
binding arbitration, including “all claims or disputes which a court otherwise would
be authorized by law to resolve arising out of [her] employment, its
termination, or this Agreement, including but not limited to claims for …
employment discrimination or harassment … wrongful discharge … retaliation …
claims under the California Labor Code … damages.…” (Bolyard Decl. ¶ 6, Exhib.
A, ¶ 10, Exhib. B.) The causes of action alleged by Plaintiff: (1) Race
Discrimination; (2) Gender Discrimination; (3) Sexual Harassment; (4)
Retaliation; (5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment; (6) Racial Harassment;
(7) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; and (8) Wrongful Constructive Termination
in Violation of Public Policy, are based on allegations related to Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendants. Thus, the Arbitration Agreement is applicable to
the instant claims.
Defendants argue that the EFA does not
apply here because Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim did not arise on or
after March 3, 2022. On the other hand, Plaintiff claims that since there is no
precedent on how courts may assess when employment discrimination claims and
disputes “accrue” or “arise” within the meaning of this relatively new legislation,
the Court should interpret it in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, and since
Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendant on September 7, 2022, her “dispute”
arose after EFAA’s enactment in March 2022. On March 3, 2022, President Joe
Biden signed into law the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021. The EFA amends the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. § 1, et seq., and renders unenforceable (at option of person alleging
assault or harassment) pre-dispute arbitration agreements relating to claims of
sexual assault or sexual harassment:¿ 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.¿(9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).) 
 
The EFA became effective March 3, 2022,
and states: “This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with
respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date
of enactment of this Act.” (PL 117-90, March 3, 2022, 136 Stat 26, emphasis
added.)¿ 
Here, Plaintiff signed the Arbitration
Agreement on April 19, 2019 and May 4, 2020 (Bolyard Decl. ¶¶ 6, 10, Exhibs. A,
B.), and all the events constituting Plaintiff’s claim occurred between January
2019 and July 2020. (FAC ¶ 17.) Despite Plaintiff’s argument, the EFA
explicitly does not apply to Plaintiff’s claim. Accordingly, arbitration is not
precluded by the EFA.  
Plaintiff also argues the Arbitration
Agreement is unenforceable as it is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. “ ‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive”
element,’ the former focusing on “oppression” or “surprise” due to unequal
bargaining power, the latter on “overly harsh” or “one-sided” ’results.
[Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same
degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Found.
Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) 
Plaintiff’s arguments of procedural
unconscionability fail as the procedure surrounding the signing of the
arbitration agreements belie Plaintiff’s assertion that she had insufficient
time to review or that she was provided insufficient information by Defendants
about the documents’ contents. There is no evidence of oppression or surprise
due to unequal bargaining power, or overly harsh and one-sided results.
Additionally, there is no evidence to show that Plaintiff did not have an
opportunity to review, question, or challenge the agreement on the date of its
completion.  The Court finds that there
was no procedural unconscionability.
Plaintiff’s arguments of substantive
unconscionability likewise fail as the arbitration agreements do not improperly
limit the amount of damages normally available under the statute. 
The cost of arbitration will be
paid equally by me and by the Company, except to the extent required by law if
I assert a claim under a state or federal statute prohibiting discrimination in
employment, or a similar statutory, constitutional, public policy claim, or
other claim for which the Company is legally required to bear the costs of arbitration
(a “Statutory Claim”). ...
(Bolyard
Decl., Exhibs. A and B.) The agreement also provides for adequate discovery: “[t]he
Arbitrator shall be authorized to order all parties to conduct reasonable and
adequate discovery in accordance with state law to enable each party to
adequately arbitrate their claims.” (Id.) The agreement also provides
for judicial review of the arbitrator’s award or enforcement. Finally, the
Court finds that the cost-splitting provision does not render the agreement
unconscionable since it only allows for such where not precluded by state or
federal law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1284.2.) 
Accordingly, the Arbitration Agreement is
neither procedurally nor substantively unconscionable.  
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED. The Court STAYS this action pending the
resolution of arbitration.
Moving parties to give notice. 
If counsel do not submit on the tentative,
they are strongly encouraged to appear by  LACourtConnect rather than in person due to
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
            
 
