  Case Number:  23TRCV03578    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KLARISS
  ACAITLYN BARAJAS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03578




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 12,
2024
 
Moving Party:                         Defendant GL LBH, LLC
dba Long Beach Honda
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Klarissa Caitlyn Barajas
Demurrer
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to second cause of action
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  The
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.  Plaintiff is given 20 days leave to amend.
BACKGROUND
            On October 26, 2023, plaintiff
Klarissa Caitlyn Barajas filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc., Ken Garff Automotive Group dba Long Beach Honda, Jenri Pinto Burgos, and
Maria Elena Sanchez Davilla for (1) negligence, (2) breach of express warranty,
(3) breach of implied warranty, (4) strict liability, (5) motor vehicle
negligence, and (6) negligent entrustment. 

            On January 29, 2024, plaintiff and
Honda stipulated and the court ordered that the third cause of action and claim
for punitive damages be dismissed against Honda.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
GL LBH, LLC dba Long
Beach Honda demurs to the second and
third causes of action on the ground that the allegations are insufficient to
constitute a cause of action and are uncertain. 
The second cause of action is a claim for Breach of Express Warranty.  The third cause of action is identified as a
claim for Breach of Implied Warranty.
            The
complaint alleges that plaintiff is and was a resident of Apple Valley, County
of San Bernardino, and the owner and driver of a 2017 Honda Civic.  Complaint, ¶1.  This product liability action involves a 2017
Honda Civic, which was designed, manufactured, marketed, promoted, sold, and
distributed by Honda.  Id., ¶2.  On November 26, 2021, plaintiff was the seat
belted driver of the 2017 Honda Civic. 
She was traveling on Tenth Street, at Buena Vista Avenue, Corona.  The subject vehicle was struck in the
intersection by another vehicle.  The air
bags in the subject vehicle did not deploy. 
Id., ¶15.
            Plaintiff
alleges that her motor vehicle’s airbags failed to inflate as they had never
been installed.  Id. ¶ 23.
            Claims
are asserted by Plaintiff against the driver and owner of the other vehicle,
but those claims are not relevant to this demurrer.
            Second
cause of action for breach of express warranty
            The
elements of a claim for breach of express warranty are as follows: (1) the
seller made statements that constituted an affirmation of fact or promise or a description
of the goods; (2) that the statement was part of the basis of the bargain; and
(3) that the warranty was breached. Comm. Code §2313.  See also CACI 1230.
The
complaint alleges that:
“… on and
prior to November 26, 2021, the Defendants, and each of them, utilized
advertising media, professional publications and retail persons to urge the use
and purchase of the said 2017 Honda Civic and expressly warranted to members of
the general public, including the Plaintiff herein, that the said vehicle was
effective, proper and safe for its intended use.”  Complaint, ¶27.
Plaintiff
relied upon the said express warranty representations of defendants in the use
of the subject vehicle.  Id., ¶28.  The vehicle was not effective, proper, and
safe for its intended use as expressly warranted by defendants in that the
vehicle and steering wheel/front airbags component and system was defective,
thereby causing serious injury when said vehicle was being put to its intended
use and was involved in a severe front impact collision.  Id., ¶29.
            Defendant
argues that this claim fails because plaintiff fails to attach a copy of the
express warranty she claims was made by defendant.  Defendant requests that the court take
judicial notice of the Buyers Guide that plaintiff purportedly signed.
            In
opposition, plaintiff objects to the court taking judicial notice of the Buyers
Guide as it is improper.
 
The court
DENIES defendant’s request to take judicial notice of the purported Buyers
Guide as it does not come within the provision of Evidence Code §452(h) (facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute).
 
Express
warranties are basically contractual in nature. 
(American Suzuki Motor Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295.)  Plaintiff
alleges that the express warranty provided by defendant GL LBH, LLC arose from
the fact that defendant “utilized advertising media, professional publications
and retail persons to urge the use and purchase of the said 2017 Honda Civic
and expressly warranted to members of the general public, including the
Plaintiff herein, that the said vehicle was effective, proper and safe for its
intended use.”
Because
an express warranty arises in contract, Plaintiff’s vague allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiff must allege whether the express
warranty arises from an oral statement or statements, from a written document
or is implied by conduct.  C.C.P. § 430.10(g). 
And she must plead the contractual provision by stating the language of
the express warranty.  As was noted in Wise
v. Southern Pac. Co. (1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 50, 59 [35 Cal.Rptr. 652, 657]:
“As to
the contract, where a written instrument is the foundation of a cause of
action, it may be pleaded in haec verba by attaching a copy as an
exhibit and incorporating it by proper reference.  (Holly Sugar Corp. v. Johnson (1941) 18
Cal.2d 218, 225, 115 P.2d 8; Byrne v. Harvey (1962) 211 Cal.App.2d 92,
103, 27 Cal.Rptr. 110.)”
If
Plaintiff is to charge Defendant with breaching an express warranty, Defendant
is entitled to have this allegation pled in the proper manner.  Either quote the language of the warranty or
attach a copy of the warranty to the amended complaint.  The demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Third
cause of action for breach of implied warranty
Under
Civil Code §1791.1(c), “[t]he duration of the implied warranty of
merchantability and where present the implied warranty of fitness shall be
coextensive in duration with an express warranty which accompanies the consumer
goods, provided the duration of the express warranty is reasonable; but in no
event shall such implied warranty have a duration of less than 60 days nor more
than one year following the sale of new consumer goods to a retail buyer. Where
no duration for an express warranty is stated with respect to consumer goods,
or parts thereof, the duration of the implied warranty shall be the maximum
period prescribed above.”
If a
defect is latent, the time period under Civil Code §1791.1(c) does not require
the purchaser to discover the defect or give notice to the dealer during the
time period found in Civil Code §1791.1(c). 
Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 1297,
1301.
The
complaint alleges that prior to November 26, 2021, and prior to the time at the
2017 Honda Civic was being used by plaintiff at the time of the subject
incident, defendants impliedly warranted to members of the general public,
including plaintiff, that the said vehicle was equipped with air bags that were
of merchantable quality and safe for the use for which it was intended by
defendants, namely for the purpose of driving and the deployment and inflation
of the airbag with a severe front impact collision.  Complaint, ¶36.  The vehicle was not safe for its intended use
nor was it of merchantable quality as warranted by defendants in that it was
defectively designed, thereby dangerous exposing the user of said vehicle to
serious injury.  Id., ¶38.
            Defendant
contends that plaintiff fails to allege the date when the vehicle was purchased
and that “the maximum duration of the implied warranty of merchantability on an
automobile is one year from the date of purchase of the vehicle,” citing to
Civil Code §1791.1(c).
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient.
            The
court finds that the allegations are sufficient, and that whether the claim is
barred by Civil Code 1791.1(c) does not appear on the face of the complaint.  Further, defendant has not cited to any
authority whereby plaintiff is required to plead the date when the vehicle was
purchased.  Also, as alleged, the
defective airbag may fall under latent defect.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action.
ORDER
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.  The demurrer to the third cause
of action is OVERRULED.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.