 Case Number:  21STCV13302    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV13302




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Compel Responses to First Amended Notice of Taking Deposition and
  Request for Production of Documents 
(2)
  Motion to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
April 7, 2021, Plaintiff Victoria Tap (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
JP Morgan Chase & Co., CBRE, Inc., and Does 1 to 100 alleging injuries due
to a malfunctioned door. 
 
On
December 21, 2023, Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA
(“Defendant”) served an amended notice of deposition on Plaintiff, set for
January 10, 2024. On the day of the deposition, Plaintiff appeared but did not
produce the documents requested in the notice. 
 
Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff to produce said documents. No
opposition has been filed.  Defendant
also separately moves to continue trial. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
 
“(a)
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's control that is
specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.
(b)
This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”
 
“If
the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).) 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.480(j).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Gabriela M. Bonato shows states that Defendant’s
counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on February 22, 2024 to respond to
the production request within 12 days or Defendant would file the instant
motion. (Bonato Decl. ¶ 3.) It does not appear Plaintiff responded. Therefore,
it appears Defendant made a reasonable attempt to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion is timely since the deposition took
place on January
10, 2024, and Plaintiff filed this motion on March 8, 2024. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff appeared for her deposition on January 10, 2024,
but failed to produce any of the documents requested in the deposition notice,
arguing all documents had been produced, and that documents concerning
subsequent treatments were unavailable at the time. (Bonato Decl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff’s counsel represented he would produce responsive documents when they
came into his possession. (Ibid.) Defendant brought this motion after
waiting 1.5 months without a response to the request. 
 
            The
subject deposition notice requests production of updated medical records,
witness statements, photographs, and documents related to Plaintiff’s lost
wages claim, since April 14, 2023 to the present. (Id., Exh. A.) The
requests appear discoverable. Though Defendant asserts Plaintiff was not in
possession of these updated records, Plaintiff does not oppose this motion, and
fails to set forth a reason to deny. Therefore, since Plaintiff has not
produced the documents, but attended the deposition, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
 Defendant requests $786.41 in monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, representing a $205
hourly rate and the $61.65 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted
but the amount is excessive given there was no opposition. Therefore, the Court
awards sanctions in the amount of $471.65 (2 hours of attorney time plus the
filing fee).  
 
The
separately filed motion to continue trial is denied as moot given the
stipulation granted on April 17, 2024. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to Compel Responses to First Amended
Notice of Taking Deposition and Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall provide responses within 10 days. 
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $471.65. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to continue trial is denied as moot. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 