 Case Number:  21STCV26685    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV26685




MOTION


Motion to Continue the Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Duvall Capozzi and Kathy Capozzi 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Duvall Capozzi and Kathy Capozzi (“Defendants”) move to
continue trial to January 2025 in order to complete discovery in this case.
Defendants also seek sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on July 20, 2021, alleging negligence from a
motor vehicle accident. Trial was originally set for January 17, 2023 and then
later vacated. (See Min. Order, 1/3/23.)
 
The answer was filed on January 19, 2023.  
 
Trial was then re-set for July 22, 2024. (Min. Order, 7/24/23.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 ¿ 
Discussion
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s failure to timely respond to
discovery has slowed this case. Defendants filed motions to compel discovery
which were granted on January 31, 2024. Defendants received responses on
February 27, 2024. (Kothary Decl. ¶ 6.) However, they assert that Plaintiff’s
medical records are being subpoenaed, and this process can take up to six
months. After the records are obtained, Plaintiff will need to be deposed.
Therefore, given the delay in service, and then the subsequent delay in
discovery, Defendants argue there is good cause for the continuance. 
 
The Court notes that besides the vacating and re-setting of the trial
date, there have been no continuances in this case. There is also no
opposition. Given that trial is set for July, Defendants received initial
discovery responses in February, and have yet to receive medical subpoenas, or
engage in depositions, the Court finds good cause to continue trial. 
 
Defendants also appear to seek sanctions but provide no basis for the
request in the notice of motion. “As a general rule, the trial court may
consider only the grounds stated in the notice of motion.” (Luri v.
Greenwald¿(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125.) Therefore, because the
grounds for sanctions are not stated in the notice of motion, the Court
declines to award sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court grants Defendants’ motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to October 30, 2024 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to November 13, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery and related deadlines are associated with the new trial
date.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 