  Case Number:  21STCV03437    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


May 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV03437




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants 18705 Ventura Boulevard, LLC and JPMorgan Chase
  Bank, NA




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Jacob
  Barsisa



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Kevin T. Dunbar 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Kenneth Alvin Solomon, Ph.D.
in Support 
4.      Declaration of Daniel Vatcher in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declarations of Mac E. Nehoray,
Jacob Barsisa, and Sam B. Attal-Watts 
2.      Plaintiff’s Response to Defendants’ Separate
Statement and Plaintiff’s Additional Disputed Material Facts
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      Reply; Supplemental Declaration of Kenneth
Solomon, Ph.D.
2.      Defendants’ Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to
Separate Statement 
3.      Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Jacob Barsisa 
4.      Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Sam B. Attal-Watts, PE
5.      Supplemental Declaration of Kenneth Solomon,
Ph.D.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
February 10, 2022, Plaintiff Jacob
Barsisa (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants 18705 Ventura Boulevard, LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
NA, and Does 1 to 10 under negligence and premises liability theories.
Plaintiff alleges that on October 9, 2020, he tripped and fell on a flower bed
in a parking lot controlled by Defendants. 
 
            Defendants 18705 Ventura Boulevard,
LLC and JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA (“Defendants”) now move for summary judgment
arguing they owed no duty of care since the flower bed where Plaintiff fell was
an open and obvious condition. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply.      
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s evidence as they have no effect on the
ruling herein. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima
facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is
then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary
judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action,
the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion
must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
            “The defendant may, but need not,
present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause
of action.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 855.) Alternatively,
“[t]he defendant may […] present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admission by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.” (Id.)¿This must be supported with evidence
“including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’” (Id.
at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)].)
 
            “On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are
the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1158.) Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must
prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant
was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“The owner of premises is under a duty to
exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to avoid
exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger
Management Corp.¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil Code § 1714.) 
 
A. Open and Obvious 
 
“Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be
expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner
is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” [Citation.] In
that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to assume others
will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the dangerous condition.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201,
215.) This is known as “the no-duty exception for open and obvious dangerous
conditions ….” (Zuniga v. Cherry Avenue Auction, Inc. (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 980, 993.) “[T]he rationale for the exception to the general duty
of ordinary care is that the foreseeability of harm usually is absent because
third parties will perceive the obvious and take action to avoid the danger.” (Id.
at p. 994.)
 
“[T]he obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse the
potential duty of a landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to
rectify it.”¿ (Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc.¿(2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184 (hereafter Martinez).)¿ The obviousness of a
danger “may obviate the duty to¿warn¿of its existence,” but “if it
is¿foreseeable¿that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is
obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter it), there may be a
duty to¿remedy¿the danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the
basis for liability . . . .”¿ (Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix¿(1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 104, 122 (hereafter Osborn).)
 
Although “the existence of a duty of care is a matter of law,” “[t]he
foreseeability of a particular plaintiff’s injury is a question of fact.” (Alpert
v. Villa Romano Homeowners Assn. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1330, fn. 9.) 
 
“‘It is ordinarily a question of fact … whether [a] particular danger was
obvious, [or] whether an invitee was contributorily negligent ….’ [Citations.]”
(Henderson v. McGill (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 256, 260; see also Curland
v. Los Angeles County Fair Ass’n (1953) 118 Cal.App.2d 691, 695–696 [“Whether
[a] danger was obvious to plaintiff [is] a question of fact for the jury. [Citations.]
Whether a person, under the circumstances, made a reasonable use of his
faculties is also a question for the jury. The law presumes that a person
possessing the normal faculties of sight must have seen that which was in the
range of his sight”].)
 
B. Analysis
 
Here, the following is undisputed. On the day of the incident, the
parking lot was relatively empty, except for three or four cars. (UMF 3.) Plaintiff
parked his car in the first available spot, which was located adjacent to a
planter enclosed by a concrete curb perimeter. (UMF 4.) When Plaintiff parked,
the curb enclosing the planter was on the driver's side of Plaintiffs car. (UMF
5.) After Plaintiff parked and exited his vehicle, Plaintiff began moving
towards the rear of his car along the asphalt strip between his car and the
concrete curb enclosing the planter. (UMF 7.) With the Plaintiff’s car to his
back, and the concrete curb perimeter of the planter in front of him, Plaintiff
shuffled his feet parallel to his car to continue moving toward the rear of his
car. (UMF 8.) When Plaintiff reached the rear passenger door on the driver's
side of his car, Plaintiff noticed a space between the plants in the landscaped
planter. (UMF 9.) Looking at the bank on the other side of the planter,
Plaintiff stepped into the landscaped area of the planter over the curb closest
to his car and began walking towards the bank. (UMF 10.) 
 
Defendants sets forth the following additional relevant facts:
 
-         
Still looking at the bank as he walks into the
landscaped planter, Plaintiff takes a couple of steps to reach the other side
of the planter where he trips over inner edge of curb enclosing the planter on
the opposite side, closest to the bank. (UMF 11.) 
-         
Plaintiff tripped as he was exiting the planter,
landing in the handicap parking spaces in front of him. (UMF 12.) 
-         
The concrete curb perimeter of the planter that
Plaintiff’s leading foot made contact with is light grey concrete, surrounded
by the dark grey/charcoal colored asphalt parking lot surface. (UMF 13.) 
-         
That obvious color contrast between the color of
the curb enclosing the planter and the presence of a landscaped area with
plants acts as its own visual cue to even the casual observer that there was a
planter positioned adjacent to the parking space. (UMF 14.) 
 
Here, Defendants fail to meet their initial burden. As stated above,
whether a condition is open and obvious is generally a question of fact. Defendants
offer no evidence describing what danger in the planter was open and obvious,
considering that they contend that Plaintiff tripped on the inner edge of the
curb enclosing the planter. (See UMF 11.) They do not describe undisputed facts
that something defective about the curb was open and obvious.
 
Also, while Defendants argue it was not foreseeable that Plaintiff would
use the short cut through the planter or adjust his car when he discovered he
parked too close to the curb, they provide no persuasive authority in support. A
reasonable juror could conclude that it was foreseeable for patrons to take the
shortcut. Accordingly, Defendants fail to meet their burden to show the absence
of a triable issue of material fact.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendants 18705 Ventura Boulevard, LLC and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, NA’s motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of
service of such.
 