 Case Number:  22STCV24405    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24405




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Request for Production




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Hasmik Balamutyan  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Hasmik Balamutyan (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel Defendant Anahit Ghorghanyan (“Defendant”) to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.[1] Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents, Set One on
Defendant on January 9, 2024. (Yeghoyan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Responses were due
February 12, 2024. Plaintiff granted an extension without objections until
February 20, 2024. Since then, no responses have been served. Therefore,
because responses have not been served, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Plaintiff also
requests $1,500 in monetary sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of
record. This appears to represent a $750 hourly rate. The Court finds sanctions
are warranted because Defendant has failed to respond. However, the amount
requested is excessive given there was no opposition, Plaintiff can appear
remotely at the hearing, and counsel provides no basis for the hourly rate. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $375 (1.5 hour of attorney time
at $250 hourly rate). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Request for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant Anahit Ghorghanyan shall provide verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant and his attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $375.00.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


