 Case Number:  22BBCV00783    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 6,
2023

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSE & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00783

 



MP:  


Eureka Grant (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue. 
“The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice
of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Eureka
Grant (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Salvador Garcia (“Defendant”) in
connection with an automobile accident. Plaintiff claims she was injured when
Defendant’s vehicle struck a vehicle in which Plaintiff was a passenger. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to
compel Defendant’s answers to her Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production (“RFPD”). Plaintiff also requests
an order deeming RFA matters admitted. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 prior to
the hearing.  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) 
By failing to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed
waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2030.290(c).)
The same is true for a motion to compel a response to a demand for the
production of documents. (C.C.P. § 2031.300(c).)
 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction
on the party or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission
responses necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses
& Deem RFA Admitted
 
Plaintiff propounded her
first set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA on Defendant
on April 20, 2023, via email service upon Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Gross Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. A.) Plaintiffs’ counsel thereafter provided a unilateral extension to
respond until July 19, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) As of the filing of these
motions Defendant had not served responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Id.
¶ 12.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel Defendant’s initial responses to Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Requests for the Production of Documents are
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion to deem RFA matters admitted is also GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response. (C.C.P. §§ 2031.300 & 2031.290.) As such, any monetary
sanctions granted are within the discretionary power of the Court as per Code
of Civil Procedure § 2030.290. As per Code of Civil Procedure 2023.010(d),
failure to respond constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. 
 
Additionally, The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff prepared and filed several motions
to compel and to deem RFA matters admitted, while Defendant has filed no oppositions.
Plaintiff’s counsel attests that he spent 1.5 hours preparing each motion and
that his hourly rate is $450. (Gross Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel
additionally states a $60 filing fee was incurred with respect to each motion.
(Id.)  Accordingly, the Court
awards sanctions in the amount of $2,940 [((1.5 x 4= 6) x 450 = 2,700) + (60 x
4 = 240) = $2,940]. Sanctions are granted jointly and severally as against Defendant
and his counsel.  Sanctions are payable
within 30 calendar days.
 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Eureka Grant’s Motions
to Compel Responses to Discovery and Motions to Deem
Matters in Request for Admissions Admitted came on regularly for hearing on October
6, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS
GRANTED. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY AS
AGAINST THE DEFENDANT AND HIS COUNSEL IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,940.  PAYMENT IS DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
ALL EXISTING DATES REMAIN.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
October 6, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 