  Case Number:  20BBCV00813    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 6,
2023

MOTION FOR
EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00813

 



MP:  


West Coast Urgent Care
  Clinics, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


Susanna Yagubyan
  (Plaintiff)



 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue. 
“The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice
of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Susanna
Yagubyan (“Plaintiff”), Central Medical Business Management, Inc., and Deepest
Inner Core, Inc. brings this suit against West Coast Urgent Care Clinics, Inc.
(“Defendant”), Sona Sirounian, Brigeli Westerband, and Vahe Gyulnazaryan. 
 
Defendant
now moves for evidentiary sanctions on grounds that Plaintiff has consistently
abused the discovery process. Plaintiff submits no opposition. Defendant has
filed two supplemental declarations at the request of the Court so that it may
make an informed decision. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to comply with a court
order compelling a response to interrogatories or a request for production, the
court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions. (C.C.P.
§§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300 (c).) 
 
C.C.P. § 2023.030 provides “[t]o the
extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method…,
the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after
opportunity for hearing, may impose . . . [monetary, issue, evidence, or
terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of
the discovery process…” 
 
C.C.P. § 2023.30(c) provides that the
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence.
 
C.C.P. § 2023.010 provides that “[m]issues
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: …(d)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery…(g)
Disobeying a court order to provide discovery…”
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Defendant asks that evidentiary
sanctions be granted against Plaintiff to preclude her from introducing text
messages and emails mentioned at her deposition into evidence. Defendant also
asks sanctions to be granted to preclude Plaintiff from testifying at trial
entirely. To determine the appropriateness of these requests, the Court must
briefly review the timeline of the discovery in question. 
 
Timeline
 
On July 13, 2023, Defendant conducted
the first day of Plaintiff’s deposition. Defendant’s former counsel, Laine
Mervis, conducted the deposition and now submits a declaration in support of
this motion. (Mervis Decl. ¶ 10.) Mervis has since moved to another firm and no
longer represents Defendant. During the deposition, Plaintiff indicated she
possessed an abundance of text messages and emails regarding this matter and that
they had been turned over to her attorney. (Mervis Decl. ¶ 4 & Eanet Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. 2.) Mervis states that at no time during the deposition did
Plaintiff’s counsel refute that any of these documents were in his possession.
(Mervis Decl. ¶ 11.) At the end of the deposition Mervis confirmed that he
wished to conduct a second deposition session and that he would work with
Plaintiff’s counsel to obtain the text messages and emails. (Mervis Decl. ¶
11.) Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed this understanding was correct. (Id.)  
 
On July 25, 2023, Defendant’s counsel
sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting production of the outstanding
documents identified at deposition that had yet to be produced. (Eanet Decl. ¶
5, Exh. 3.) On July 31, 2023, Defendant sent further correspondence to
Plaintiff counsel asking for production after the first request received no
response. (Eanet Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 5.) Defendant’s counsel engaged in several
attempts to meet and confer regarding production on August 10 and 15. (Eanet
Decl. ¶¶ 8-10.) Defendant received no response to these efforts. (Id.) 
 
On August 10, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to continue the trial date and advised that the second
deposition of Plaintiff must take place on or before August 28, 2023. (Eanet
Decl. ¶ 9.) That same day, Defendant’s counsel sent another meet and confer
correspondence which received no response. (Eanet Decl. ¶ 8.) On August 15,
2023, Defendant’s counsel texted and called Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the
matter with no response to either. (Eanet Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
On August 23, 2023 Plaintiff’s counsel
produced text messages, however these messages were in a non-native format and
the sender/recipient could not be identified for any of them. (Eanet Decl. ¶
12.) Additionally, no emails were produced. (Id.) 
 
On August 24, 2023, Defendant’s counsel
again requested full production of the text messages and emails. (Eanet Decl. ¶
14.) The same occurred on September 6, 2023 and September 11, 2023, with no
response from Plaintiff’s counsel. (Eanet Decl. ¶¶ 14-15.) On September
13, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel responded to the messages by stating the
following: 
 
[a]s far as the ‘emails’ no emails have been turned over and I am
certain that was a misstatement by her, texts messages have been turned over
and those have been provided to you. 
 
(Eanet Decl. Exh. 10.) 
 
On September 21, 2023, Defendant’s
counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel to explain the issues with the text
message formatting. (Eanet Decl. ¶ 17.) Defendant’s counsel asked that the
messages be produced in their native format by September 15, 2023. (Eanet Decl.
¶ 18, Exh. 11.) Plaintiff’s counsel had not responded to this request as of the
filing of this motion. (Eanet Decl. ¶ 19.) 
 
Analysis 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court finds
no basis has been provided with respect to the total exclusion of Plaintiff’s
testimony at trial. The statute providing for evidentiary sanctions only
provides that a party abusing the discovery process cannot enter the designated
matters into evidence. The Court finds Plaintiff’s testimony at trial will
likely encompass more than the designated matters. Further, Plaintiff has not
refused deposition on the matter and is willing to be further deposed. As such,
the Court sees no basis for excluding the entirety of her testimony at trial. However,
it follows that evidentiary sanctions prohibiting Plaintiff from testifying
about the text messages and emails at trial may still be valid. 
 
Defendant cites Karlsson v. Ford
Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, which held that a consistent pattern
of discovery abuse can support the granting of evidentiary sanctions. The Karlsson
court also considered that lesser sanctions would have been futile given
Ford no longer had the legal capability to correct these abuses. (Id. at
276.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
counsel has engaged in a pattern of discovery abuse sufficient to justify
evidentiary sanctions. 
 
“Discovery sanctions must be tailored in
order to remedy the offending party's discovery abuse, should not give the
aggrieved party more than what it is entitled to, and should not be used to
punish the offending party.” (Karlsson supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at 1217.) “Although
the court has discretion in choosing a sanction, this discretion must be
exercised in a manner consistent with the basic purposes of such sanctions,
e.g., to compel disclosure of discoverable information.” (Rutledge v.
Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1193 [citation omitted].) “Furthermore,
the sanction chosen should not provide a windfall to the other party, by
putting the prevailing party in a better position than if he or she had
obtained the discovery sought and it had been favorable.” (Id.
[citations omitted].)
 
Here, the Court does not find that
evidentiary sanctions would comport with the purpose of compelling production.
The Court is cognizant of the fact that Plaintiff’s counsel was unresponsive to
Defendant’s request for the information needed to conduct a second deposition.
The Court does not look kindly upon these delays and has admonished Plaintiff’s
counsel accordingly. However, the fact remains that Plaintiff’s counsel did
eventually produce the text messages. While these messages are not currently
usable, nothing suggests Plaintiff’s counsel altered them to be as such. The
evidence in front of the Court suggests that Plaintiff’s counsel merely turned
over what he had. The Court is confident Plaintiff’s counsel will correct the
formatting of the messages so that they are properly responsive to Defendant’s
request. Accordingly, the motion for evidentiary sanctions is DENIED in part without
prejudice, as to precluding evidence of the text messages. Should Plaintiff’s
counsel persist in not providing usable text message conversations the Court
would entertain a further motion by Defendant for evidentiary sanctions.   Plaintiff shall have 10 calendar days to
provide text messages in a readable and usable format.
 
As concerns the emails Plaintiff
mentioned in her deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel has repeatedly refused to
produce. It appears Plaintiff’s current stance is that no such emails ever
existed and that his client misspoke at her deposition. If this is the case,
the Court sees no way in which a lesser sanction would result in production of
the emails. Accordingly, the motion for evidentiary sanctions is GRANTED in
part as to the introduction of emails mentioned by Plaintiff in her deposition.

--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
West
Coast Urgent Care Clinics, Inc.’s Motion for
Evidentiary Sanctions came on regularly for hearing on
October 6, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED IN PART - PLAINTIFF IS
PRECLUDED FROM INTRODUCING EVIDENCE OF ANY EMAILS MENTIONED IN HER DEPOSITION. 
 
THE MOTION IS DENIED AS TO TEXT MESSAGES.   PLAINTIFF IS TO PROVIDE TEXT MESSAGES IN A
READABLE AND USABLE FORMAT WITHIN 10 CALENDAR DAYS.
 
THE MOTION IS DENIED AS TO EXCLUDING PLAINTIFF’S
TESTIMONY.
 
THE COURT SETS AN INFORMAL DISCOVERY CONFERENCE
REGARDING COMPLIANCE ON OCTOBER 17, 2023 AT 4:00 P.M.   IF COMPLIANCE IS ACHIEVED THE DEFENDANT MAY
NOTIFY THE COURT TO VACATE THE IDC. 
 
ALL EXISTING DATES REMAIN.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT IS TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 6, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 