 Case Number:  23BBCP00047    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 6,
2023

MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCP00047

 



MP:  


American Family Connect
  Property Casualty Insurance Co.




RP:  


None



 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue. 
“The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice
of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
February 21, 2023, American Family Connect Property Casualty Insurance Co. (“Petitioner”)
filed a petition requesting the Court open an underinsured motorist discovery
case so a motion to compel discovery responses could be filed pursuant to the
authority conferred by California Insurance Code, § 11580.2(f)(1). The Respondent
in the matter is Carlos Cruz (“Respondent”). On March 24, 2023, the Court
granted the petition. 
 
On April
14, 2023, the Court granted Petitioner’s motion to compel discovery responses
propounded on Respondent on November 14, 2022. Petitioner now moves for
terminating sanctions and dismissal of the action based on Respondent’s failure
to obey the Court’s April 14, 2023 order compelling Respondent’s responses to
discovery. The motion is unopposed.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
Insurance Code adopts the Civil Discovery Act in its entirety and “grants the
superior court the exclusive jurisdiction to hear discovery matters arising
under uninsured motorist arbitrations,” including motions for terminating
sanctions. (Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2008) 117 Cal. App. 4th
913, 926 [citing Insurance Code § 11580.2(f)].) 
 
Where a
party fails to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P., §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A
terminating sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with
caution.” (Deyo supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) “A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 262, 279-280.) 
 
While the
court has discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should
be appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required
to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, at 793.) “[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate sanction
against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with his
discovery obligations.” (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be imposed
for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery
to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife v.
Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court previously
continued this motion upon stating concerns about the notice provided to Respondent.
The Court was specifically concerned about whether Respondent was represented
by counsel and, if so, whether counsel received notice of the motions to compel
discovery responses. Accordingly, the Court ordered Petitioner to submit
supplemental briefing as to Respondent’s representation status and the notice
provided to him. The Court also requested supplemental briefing as to why
lesser sanctions would not be sufficient.  
 
Petitioner now states that
Respondent’s counsel withdrew his representation on January 25, 2023. (Calendo Supp.
Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. A.) The letter from Respondent’s former counsel, Ronald Turlington,
states his office no longer represents Respondent and that any judgment
obtained is subject to Turlington’s lien for legal services. (Id.) The
letter makes no representation as to the status of discovery or notice provided
to Respondent about this withdrawal. (Id.) This withdrawal occurred well
before Petitioner served notice of its motions to compel on Respondent, in pro
per, on March 1, 2023. (Mot. Exh. D.) 
 
The Court is satisfied that
Respondent has not been represented by counsel since January of this year and
that Petitioner’s service of notice was proper. 
 
“The trial court may order
a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of
the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”(Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) 
 
Petitioner’s evidence of
willful noncompliance consists entirely of notices they have served on
Respondent. Petitioner has submitted that they provided notice to Respondent,
in pro per, of (1) the application to open this case file, (2) their motions to
compel, and (3) the Court’s ruling on the motion to compel. (Mot. Exhs. C, D,
E, & H.) Each of these notices was sent by mail to Respondent at 10236
Hadley Avenue, Northridge, CA 91324. (Id.) None of these showings
indicate that Respondent’s failure to comply was willful rather than negligent.
Respondent’s failure to adhere to the Court order is not, in and of itself,
evidence of willful behavior. 
 
The fact that Respondent’s
counsel was originally served with discovery and thereafter withdrew appears
more indicative of negligence than willful defiance. It is unclear whether
Respondent was made aware by his counsel that representation was terminated or
that discovery was outstanding.  In
addition, it appears no efforts were made after the Court continued the matter
to contact Respondent. To date, the only notice Respondent has received about
the Court’s order is the notice of ruling served on April 21, 2023. (Mot. Exh. H.)

 
Further, Petitioner’s
motion makes no argument as to a detriment suffered which cannot be offset by
less severe sanctions and Petitioner requests no sanctions in the alternative
to the terminating sanctions requested here. The Court agrees that sanctions of
some kind are in order, but Petitioner has not provided the Court with any
basis to determine what those sanctions are. 
 
Petitioner is certainly
entitled to receive responses to the discovery that they have propounded, and Respondent
is subject to appropriate (and potentially escalating) sanctions for the
failure to comply with his obligations under the Civil Discovery Act and court
orders, but at this time the Court cannot determine that the Respondent’s
failure to comply was willful. While Respondent’s behavior is certainly ripe
for monetary or even evidentiary sanctions, it does not constitute the
continued and willful refusal to comply that justifies terminating sanctions.
 
The Court will schedule the
matter for non-terminating evidentiary sanctions and the moving party is to
serve notice.  At such hearing the Court will
determine whether evidentiary sanctions or issue preclusion is appropriate.
 
Accordingly,
the motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
American
Family Connect Property Casualty Insurance Co.’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly
for hearing on October 6, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED.  
 
OSC RE EVIDENTIARY/ISSUE SANCTIONS IS SET FOR
DECEMBER 14, 2023, AT 9:00 A.M.
 
STATUS CONFERENCE RE: ARBITRATION IS CONTINUED
TO JANUARY 17, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
American Family Connect
Property Casualty Insurance Co. to give notice.
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 6, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 