 Case Number:  22BBCV00813    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 6,
2023

DEMURRER
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00813

 



MP:  


Kelly Walsh Sweeny (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant) 




RP:  


Richard M. Foster
  (Defendant/Cross-Complainant) 



 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue. 
“The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice
of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
October 20, 2022, Kelly Walsh Sweeny (“Sweeny”) brought this action against
Richard M. Foster (“Foster”) for declaratory relief. Sweeny seeks a declaration
that settlement proceeds held by her, as survivor of Robert J. Walsh, are not
subject to the attorney lien claimed by Foster.  
 
On
January 25, 2023, Foster filed a Cross-Complaint containing a single cause of
action for breach of contract. On May 19, 2023, the Court sustained Sweeny’s
demurrer to the Cross-Complaint with leave to amend, finding it lacked factual
allegations to constitute its cause of action.  The Court notes that Foster filed an
opposition to the first demurrer beyond the statutory deadline, to which Sweeny
objected.  The Court previously exercised
its discretion and considered the late opposition.
 
Sweeny
now demurs to the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on grounds Foster
fails to allege sufficient facts to sustain his cause of action. As to the
second demurrer, Foster did not file any opposition, later or otherwise. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE: 
 
Sweeny requests
the Court take notice of a ruling on a Petition for Instructions re
Distribution of Trust Assets and the Order After Hearing on Petition for
Instructions re Distribution of Trusts Assets, in the California Superior
County of Los Angeles Case No. 19STP8002. 
 
Pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(c), the Court may take judicial notice of records of any
court in the state of California. However,
while courts may take judicial notice of court records, the truth of matters
asserted in such documents is not subject to judicial notice. (Arce v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) “[W]hile the existence of any document in a court file may
be judicially noticed, the truth of the matters asserted in those documents,
including the factual findings of the judge who was sitting as the trier of
fact, is not entitled to notice.” (Steed v. Department of Consumer Affairs (2012)
204 Cal.App.4th 112, 121.) 
 
Sweeny wishes to
judicially notice this rulings for the factual findings of Judge Gus T. May. The
factual findings of a judge in a previous court record are not judicially
noticeable. As such, the Court grants Sweeny’s request only insofar as it
acknowledges the ruling in the probate matter exists. The Court does not take
notice of the factual findings in that ruling. 
 
The Court
reiterates its position from the previous demurrer that Sweeny cannot utilize
the ruling for res judicata purposes. It is true that even though a factual
finding in a prior judicial decision may not establish the truth of that fact
for purposes of judicial notice, the finding itself may be a proper subject of
judicial notice if it has a res judicata effect in a subsequent action. (Hawkins
supra, 246 Cal.App.4th 1387, at 1392.) However, the petition Sweeny wishes
to judicially notice does not include her as a party and concerns only the
distribution among her late husband’s children. As such, there is no res
judicata effect to the ruling. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c),
“A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.”
 
II.                
MEET & CONFER 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Goldman Decl.) 
 
III.             
MERITS 
 
Sweeney, having failed to file any
opposition is deemed consent to granting the motion pursuant to CRC
8.54(c).   As such, the Court finds no
need to conduct an extensive analysis of the moving party’s arguments since the
Plaintiff, having been timely served with the motion and time to evaluate it
themselves declined to oppose it.  The
Court concludes that the Plaintiff has deemed the motion to have merit.
--- 
 
RULING:
In the event the parties
submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kelly
Walsh Sweeny’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on October 6, 2023, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED.  PLAINTIFF HAS 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
THE COURT VACATES THE STATUS CONFERENCE AND SETS
A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE ON JANUARY 17, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT IS TO
GIVE NOTICE  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 6, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 