  Case Number:  21STCV22453    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F-49      Date:    7/1/24     Case    Name: Rossius, D.M.D. v. Providence Health & Services, et al.     Case No.    21STCV22453      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F-49    JULY 2, 2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 21STCV22453    Motion  filed: 4/8/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Peyman Mesbah Oskui, M.D. (the  “Moving Defendant” or “Dr. Mesbah”)  RESPONDING PARTY: none NOTICE: OK.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting the Moving Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This medical malpractice action arises from the care and  treatment provided to Plaintiff Andrey Rossius, D.M.D. (“Plaintiff”) by  Defendants James J. Lee, M.D. (“Dr. Lee”), the Moving Defendant Dr. Mesbah,  Lanzio Arnau, O.T.(“Arnau”), Providence Health & Services, Providence,  Providence St. Joseph Health, Providence Holy Cross Medical Center  (collectively, “Defendants”).     On June 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Defendants  and Does 1 through 50, alleging one cause of action for medical malpractice.  Subsequently, Defendants Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, Dr. Mesbah,  Arnau, and Dr. Lee filed their respective Answers to the Complaint on June 10, 22,  July 1, and 12, 20222, respectively.   Subsequently, on July 7, 2022, Plaintiff submitted his  requests for dismissal, dismissing Defendants Providence Health & Services,  Providence St. Joseph Heath, Providence, which were subsequently entered by the  Clerk on August 4, 2022.   On February 27, 2024, the Court entered a judgment, granting  Dr. Lee’s motion for summary judgment filed on September 29, 2023.   On April 8, 2024, the Moving  Defendant, Dr. Mesbah, filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the  “Motion”). Subsequently, Dr. Mesbah filed a Notice of No Opposition to the  Motion on June 25, 2024.   No Opposition or Reply papers  have been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   “A party may move for summary judgment in an action or  proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no  defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)   “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the  papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact  and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In  determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the  papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by  the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except  summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences  reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or  evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 437c, subd.(c).)    “[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie  showing that justifies a [ruling] in the [plaintiff's] favor, the burden then  shifts to the [defendant] to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a  triable material factual issue.”' (Citation.)" (See's Candy Shops,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900, quoting Rehmani  v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 950.) “The defendant or  cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings  to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set  forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists  as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,  subd. (p)(1).)    A.     Cause of  Action – Medical Malpractice   Dr. Mesbah argues that he is entitled to summary judgment  as a matter of law as to the entire Complaint because Plaintiff cannot  establish the necessary elements of the cause of action for medical malpractice,  specifically the elements of breach of duty and proximate causation. (Mot. at  pp. 6-8.)   The essential elements to establish a claim of medical  malpractice are: (1) duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)  breach of that duty; (3) proximate causal connection between negligent conduct  and resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the  professional’s negligence. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468 n.2; citing Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76  Cal.App.4th 601, 606; see CACI 500, et seq.)   Expert testimony is required in establishing the standard  of care by which the acts of a physician are to be measured. The California  Supreme Court reiterated the rule that the standard of care is “a basic issue  in a malpractice action that can only be proved by [expert’s] testimony, unless  the conduct required by the particular circumstance is within the common  knowledge of the layman.” (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.)    The proximate causation element hinges on whether the defendant’s  conduct was a “substantial factor” in bringing about the plaintiff’s injuries.  (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1053.) Furthermore, the  causation “must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based on  competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish  a prima facie case.” (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, et al.  (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)      In O’Connor  v. Bloomer (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 385 (O’Connor), the Court of Appeal  considers a motion for summary judgment based on defendants’ declaration as  expert opinions in a medical malpractice action. There, the plaintiff appealed the  trial court’s granting motion for summary judgment for two assistant surgeons, arguing  that the trial court abused its discretion in granting the motion for summary  judgment because it placed too much emphasis on the declarations of Defendants  Dr. Wright and two assistant surgeons. (Id. at 391.)  The Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s decision,  noting that the “extent of the duties and the responsibilities of assistant  surgeons during heart surgery is not a matter that is within the common  knowledge of lay people,” (Id. at 387) and that the trial court properly  considered these unchallenged expert testimonies. (Ibid.)   Similarly, Dr. Mesbah is a duly licensed internal  medicine physician, specializing in internal/hospitalist medicine. (Mesbah  Decl. ¶¶ 1, 4, 5) Moreover, his qualifications have not been contested by  Plaintiff.   Moreover, the Court determines that the extent of the  duties and responsibilities of an internal medicine physician in providing  specific medical care and treatment are beyond the common knowledge of lay  people. Like the assistant surgeons in O’Connor, Dr. Mesbah attests in  his declaration that he complied with the applicable standard of care in treating  Plaintiff (Id. ¶¶ 9, 13.)    Furthermore, Dr. Mesbah asserts that no act or  omission on his part caused or contributed to any alleged injury of Plaintiff  (Mesbah Decl. ¶ 14), maintaining that one or more of the elements of the medical  malpractice cause of action cannot be established.   An essential parallel between this case and O’Connor  is the unopposed nature of Dr. Mesbah’s declaration. Following precedent, the  Court concludes that Dr. Mesbah’s unopposed declarations, serving as expert  testimony, fulfill his initial burden, establishing a prima facie showing that  justifies a ruling in his favor.   Consequently, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate  the existence of a triable material factual issue.   However, given the absence of Opposition on the record  by Plaintiff and the lack of any countervailing evidence to challenge the Dr.  Mesbah’s expert testimony, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met the  burden of demonstrating the existence of a triable material factual issue.   Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Motion  for Summary Judgment.   CONCLUSION   The unopposed  Motion for Summary Judgement by Defendant Peyman Mesbah Oskui, M.D. is GRANTED.   Moving  party to provide notice.  