  Case Number:  22SMCV02588    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02588




MOTION


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Adam Wolf




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
This action stems from a motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff Adam Wolf (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel
the deposition of Defendant Antonio Gomez Pineda, Jr.  The motion is unopposed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear for deposition after service
of a deposition notice and the party has not served a valid objection to that
deposition notice, the party that noticed the deposition may move for an order
to compel the deponent’s attendance and testimony. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following: ¶(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. ¶(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO COMPEL
 
On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s deposition for June 19,
2024.  (Ex. 1 to Rashti Decl.)  Plaintiff subsequently realized the
deposition was scheduled for a federal holiday and inquired as to alternative
dates, but Defendant did not respond. 
(Ex. 2 to Rashti Decl.)  
 
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s deposition for July
19, 2024.  (Ex. 3 to Rashti Decl.)  On July 3, 2024, Defendant’s counsel served a
response to the request for production of documents at the deposition, but confirmed
the deposition would move forward as noticed. 
(Ex. 4-5 to Rashti Decl.)  Neither
Defendant nor Defendant’s counsel appeared for the remote deposition.  (Ex. 7 to Rashti Decl.)  On August 8 and 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
requested additional dates, but Defendant did not respond.  (Ex. 8 to Rashti Decl.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has demonstrated that a notice of deposition was
properly served on Defendant, and Defendant did not appear at the noticed
deposition.  
 
2.     MONETARY
SANCTIONS
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Foremost,
per Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040, “[a] request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of the motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought.”  In
Plaintiff’s notice of motion, Plaintiffs state in pertinent part:  “Notice is additionally given that PLAINTIFF
will request that the Court award monetary sanctions against Defendant ANTONIO
GOMEZ PINEDA, JR, and in favor of PLAINTIFF, in the sum of $3,568.00[1]
for willful misuse of the discovery process, which includes unreasonable
refusal to produce Defendant for Deposition and unresponsiveness in order to
re-notice Defendant’s Deposition.”  Although the Court finds the language to
be  sufficient notice for requesting
sanctions against Defendant, the Court finds the language to be insufficient
notice for requesting sanctions against counsel for Defendant.[2]

            Here,
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in connection with the motion based upon Defendant’s
failure appear at the noticed deposition. 
The Court finds Defendant’s failure to appear at the noticed deposition
to be an abuse of the discovery process, warranting monetary sanctions.  Accordingly, the Court will impose monetary
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $1561.65 which represents three hours
of attorney time to prepare the moving papers and attend the hearing, at $500
per hour, plus the motion filing fee of $61.65.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s appearance for deposition per Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450, and orders Defendant to appear in person for
deposition within 30 days of notice of the Court’s orders, unless Plaintiff stipulates
otherwise.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1561.65 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel for Plaintiff, within
30 days of notice of the Court’s orders. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
 October 2, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 


