 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  14, 2024 – CONTINUED TO October 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTION


Motion
  to Dismiss




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Rudy Eisler, Individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen
  Eisler Individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust;
  Theresa Eisler, Individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living
  Trust; Wendy Eisler, Individually and as Trustee for the Eisler Family Living
  Trust; Eisler Investments; West End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole
  Sundeen; and Dustin Wells




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Yasmin Ortiz



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Unlawful Detainer Action
 
            On
May 11, 2015, the Eisler Defendants to this action[1]
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
(“Plaintiff”), case number 15R02431.  On
December 4, 2015, the court entered judgment in favor of the Eislers.  
 
            The Current Action
 
Plaintiff filed the original
complaint in this action on January 13, 2016. 
On December 4, 2017, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint, alleging the following causes of action:
 

First:
     Violation of Civil Rights
Second:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under FEHA
Third:
     Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
Fourth:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under California’s Landlord Tenant Statutes
Fifth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for retaliation
Sixth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for breach of contract and of the covenant of
     quiet enjoyment
Seventh:
     Breach of warranty of habitability
Eighth:
     Nuisance
Ninth:
     Negligence
Tenth:
     Malicious Prosecution
Tenth
     [sic]: Violation of Rent Control Laws
Eleventh:
     Violation of Rent Control Laws
Twelfth:
     Violation of Santa Monica Charter Amendment section 1809
Thirteenth:
     Breach of Written Rental Agreement
Fourteenth:
     Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Fifteenth:
     Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Sixteenth:
     Unlawful Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Seventeenth:
     Negligent Supervision and maintenance
Eighteenth:
     Negligence Per Se

 
Anti-SLAPP
& Appeal
 
On March 12, 2019, Defendants
filed a special motion to strike the Fifth, Sixth, Tenth (both), Twelfth,
Thirteenth and Sixteenth causes of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP).  The Court
granted the Anti-SLAPP motion and struck the fifth, tenth (both), twelfth, and
sixteenth causes of action in their entirety. 
With respect to the sixth cause of action, the Court granted the motion
in part, “only as to all allegations relating to the institution of the
unlawful detainer action, both as to the breach of contract and breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment claims.” 
(See November 19, 2019 Minute Order.) 

 
On January 21, 2020, Plaintiff
appealed, and the Court of Appeal reversed
in part with respect to the twelfth cause of action only, explaining that the “allegation that
defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent” pursuant to
section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment did not arise from protected
activity.  The Court of Appeal affirmed
the Court’s decision in all other respects. 
(See August 22, 2022 Appeal – Remittitur – Other Reversed in Part and
Affirmed in Part (B303780).)  
 
Demurrer & Motion to
Strike
 
On February 6, 2020,
Defendants demurred to the remaining causes of action (First, Second, Third,
Fourth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh, Fourteenth, Fifteenth,
Seventeenth, and Eighteenth) and moved to strike requests for attorneys’ fees,
punitive damages, injunctive relief, and treble damages and disgorgement from
the FAC.  The Court sustained the
demurrer regarding the subject causes of action, without leave to amend,
because Plaintiff raised the claims as affirmative defenses in connection with
the unlawful detainer matter. Thus, the court determined that the subject
causes of action were barred by res judicata. 
(See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
With respect to the motion to
strike, the Court granted the motion to strike in part.  The Court struck Plaintiff’s request for
treble damages and disgorgement under the Third Cause of Action for violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to that cause of action without leave to amend. 
(See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
The Court also granted
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in
connection with the twelfth cause of action, and Plaintiff’s request for
injunctive relief, but granted Plaintiff 30-days leave to amend.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.) 
 
Plaintiff moved for
reconsideration of the Court’s order on the demurrer and motion to strike,
which the Court denied on February 6, 2023. 
(See February 6, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Current State of Pleadings
 
Currently, Plaintiff’s Twelfth
cause of action remains at-issue, but that cause of action is limited to
Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum
lawful rent permitted by section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
Plaintiff did not successfully
file an amended complaint within the 30-day time period in conformance with the
Court’s order of December 6, 2022 vis-à-vis the motion to strike, and
Plaintiffs’ subsequent requests for leave to amend and/or supplement the
complaint were denied.  (See February 7,
2024 Minute Order [denying leave to amend/supplement the complaint]; March 26,
2024 Minute Order [denying reconsideration of the Feb 7 order denying leave.]) 
 
Defendants now move to dismiss
the action for failure to bring it to trial within five years pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.310. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants reply.
 
Stay of Action – Appeal of
Order Striking Statement of Disqualification
 
            On
June 14, 2024, the Court stayed the action pending Plaintiff’s challenge of the
Court’s Order Striking Statement of Disqualification filed on May 29,
2024.  Because the Court of Appeal denied
Plaintiff’s pre-filing application, the Court of Appeal deemed the case
completed as of June 17, 2024.  (See
Register of Action (Docket), Case No. B338627.) 
As such, this Court vacates the Stay imposed on June 14, 2024.  
 
            Further,
the Court notes that Plaintiff filed another Statement of Disqualification on
September 23, 2024.  Thereafter, on
September 26, 2024, the Court issued an Order Striking the Statement of
Disqualification.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310, “[a]n action shall be brought to trial within
five years after the action is commenced against the defendant.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 583.310.)  “An action shall
be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant,
after notice to the parties, if the action is not brought to trial within the
time prescribed in this article.  The
requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to extension,
excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.360.)  Dismissal is warranted where the plaintiff
has failed to prosecute the action with “reasonable diligence.”  (Dunsmuir Masonic Temple v. Superior Court
(1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 17, 22-23.)  However,
Civil Code of Procedure section 583.330 also provides:
 
The parties may extend the time within which an
action must be brought to trial pursuant to this article by the following
means: 
 
(a) By written stipulation.  The stipulation need not be filed but, if it
is not filed, the stipulation shall be brought to the attention of the court if
relevant to a motion for dismissal.  
 
(b) By oral agreement made in open court, if
entered in the minutes of the court or a transcript is made.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.330.)  Further, Code of Civil Procedure section
583.340 provides:
 
In computing the time within which an action must
be brought to trial pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time
during which any of the following conditions existed:
 
(a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the
action was suspended.
 
(b) Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed
or enjoined.
 
(c) Bringing the action to trial, for any other
reason, was impossible, impracticable, or futile.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.340.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff filed suit in this matter on January 13, 2016.  Five years from that date is January 12,
2021.  That deadline is extended by six
months, by operation of Emergency Rule 10, which extends the five-year deadline
of section 583.310 by six months for all civil actions filed on or before April
6, 2020, in light of court closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Extending that deadline by six months brings
the parties to July 12, 2021.
 
The case was also stayed for the 944 days from January 21, 2020, when
Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of the anti-SLAPP order, to August 22, 2022,
when the remittitur issued.  Adding 944
days brings the deadline to bring the case to trial to February 11, 2024.[2]  Thus, Plaintiff has failed to bring the case
to trial within five years.
 
Plaintiff argues (1) at the December 2022 hearing on Defendants’
Demurrer and Motion to Strike, the Court found that Defendants were estopped
from asserting the 5-year deadline; (2) Defendants “waived” any right to assert
the five-year deadline by delaying in filing their Answer; (3) the continuances
were due to courtroom unavailability due to the COVID-19 pandemic; Defendants
filing an Anti-SLAPP motion, a demurrer, and a motion to strike; Plaintiff’s
appeal of the Anti-SLAPP order, and therefore the five year deadline should be
tolled; (4) Defendants waived the five year deadline by requesting a
continuance due to not being ready for trial and to enable settlement talks;
and (5) “Any delays were caused by other parties.”
 
Regarding Plaintiff’s first argument that this Court found that
Defendants are estopped from asserting the 5-year deadline, the Court has
reviewed the December 6, 2022 Minute Order (the only Minute Order from December
2022) and finds no reference to the 5-year deadline, a trial continuance, or
any finding that Defendants are estopped from asserting the 5-year
deadline.  But even if the Court had
found in December 2022 that the 5-year deadline did not yet require dismissal
of Plaintiff’s case, that does not mean that the 5-year deadline has not
subsequently expired.
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s second argument, that Defendants’ delay in
filing the Answer warrants extending the 5-year deadline, the primary reason
for Defendants’ lengthy delay is the unsettled state of the pleadings, was due
to Plaintiff’s continued unsuccessful attempts to amend the operative
complaint.  Further, Plaintiff has
provided no evidence that Defendants’ delay in filing the Answer delayed the
trial, much less that it delayed the trial beyond the five-year deadline.
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s third argument, that COVID-19 closures
made trying the case impossible, the Court has already accounted for the
COVID-19 court closures by virtue of applying the six-month extension of Emergency
Rule 10 in its calculation of the deadline. 

 
As for Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth arguments, on October 23, 2023,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion (which Defendants opposed) for a short
continuance of the trial due to Plaintiff’s lengthy illness and hospitalization
and to align the parties’ expectations regarding the proper scope of the
trial.  (October 23, 2023 Minute
Order.)  
 
On November 20, 2023, the Court set the final status conference for
January 26, 2024 and set trial for February 5, 2024.  The Court denied Plaintiff’s January 25, 2024
Ex Parte Application for a continuance of the final status conference and for a
stay of the trial, and issued an Order to Show Cause Why Monetary Sanctions
Should Not Be Issued Against Plaintiff for Failure to Comply with the Trial
Preparation Order and Failure to Appear on January 26, 2024, but on its own
motion continued the final status conference to February 5.  (January 26, 2024 Minute Order.)
 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff again moved ex parte for a stay and
continuance of trial.  On February 7,
2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for a stay, but granted Plaintiff’s
request for a trial continuance and continued the trial to June 17, 2024.  (Feb. 7, 2024 Minute Order.)  There is no indication in the Court’s
February 7 order that the parties agreed to waive the 5-year deadline in
connection with this continuance, either in writing or orally in open court.
 
“Section 583.330 does not address what terms comprise an oral
agreement extending the trial deadline.” 
(Nunn v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 346,
354.)  However, the “Supreme Court
concluded that parties may extend the trial deadline either by expressly
waiving the benefit of the mandatory dismissal statute or by agreeing to
postpone the trial to a specific date that is beyond the statutory
period.”  (Ibid.)  “The justification for permitting parties to
extend the trial deadline without expressly referring to the dismissal statute
is that ‘[a] stipulation to extend the time of trial beyond the [statutory]
period necessarily waives the right to a dismissal of the action’ under the
statute.”  (Id. at p. 355.)
 
Thus, the trial continuances that extended the trial date past the
February 11, 2024 deadline were requested by Plaintiff, and the delays due to
Plaintiff’s failure to prepare for trial. 
As such, bringing the case to trial was not impossible due to Defendants
or the actions of other third parties. 
Rather, they demonstrate a lack of diligence on Plaintiff’s part.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues that any dismissal for failure to bring the
case to trial within the statutory time period would be without prejudice, and
Plaintiff can just re-file her lawsuit, because there is no statute of
limitations for overpayment of rent.  
 
In support, Plaintiff cites to Minelian v. Manzella (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 457 as standing for the proposition that “there is no statute of
limitations for overcharging rent.”  Minelian
held “We conclude that given the equitable nature of such an offset, no
statute of limitations applies when excess rent paid is used as an affirmative
defense to an unlawful detainer action and affirm the judgment.”  (Id. at p. 460.)  In other words, in connection with a tenant’s
affirmative defense in a pending action that has not extended beyond the 5-year
deadline, a defendant is not precluded from offsetting any amounts owed by rent
that was overpaid just because the statute of limitations would otherwise bar the
tenant from suing in their own right to recover the overpaid rent.  Minelian does not stand for the
proposition that if Plaintiff’s case is dismissed because she fails to bring
her case to trial within the mandatory five-year statutory deadline, she may
simply re-file her lawsuit so long as it involves the alleged overpayment of
rent.  Nor could Minelian stand
for such a proposition, as that would be expressly contrary to the plain
language of the statute.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 583.360 [“The requirements of this article are mandatory and are not
subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by
statute”].)
 
Further, as a vexatious litigant, Plaintiff must satisfy the prefiling
requirement of obtaining judicial permission by demonstrating any new lawsuit
has merit and is not being filed for the purpose of harassment or delay.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 391.7.)  
 
Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff’s final argument to be unpersuasive.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that after accounting for
the 6-month COVID-19 extension, by virtue of Emergency Rule 10 and the 944 days
from January 12, 2021 when Plaintiff filed the notice of appeal of the Court’s
Anti-SLAPP order to August 22, 2022, when remittitur issued, Plaintiff’s
deadline to bring the case to trial was February 11, 2024.  Further trial continuances were granted
either at Plaintiff’s request or on the Court’s own motion, out of necessity
due to Plaintiff’s unpreparedness for trial, but without any agreement by the
parties, either in writing or orally in open court, to further extend the
5-year deadline.  
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to dismiss the action with
prejudice for failure to bring the action to trial by February 11, 2024.  
 
Further, because the Court dismisses the action with prejudice for
failure to bring the action to trial within the mandatory five-year statutory deadline,
the Court overrules and denies as moot Plaintiff’s pending demurrer and motion
to strike Defendant’s second amended answer and denies as moot Plaintiff’s
pending motion for leave to amend the first amended complaint.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve a proposed
Order and Judgment in conformance with the Court’s ruling on or before October
11, 2024, and the Court sets an Order to Show Cause re Entry of Judgment of
Dismissal on November 18, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  No appearance will be necessary if the
Judgment has been entered before the hearing on November 18, 2024.
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s
orders.  
 
 
DATED:  October 2, 2024                            ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 


