 Case Number:  24SMCV02452    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02452




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Marina Khavilova




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Mikhail Siretskiy and Marina Siretskiy
(“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendant Marina Khavilova (“Defendant”)
alleging thirteen causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
implied contract; (3) detrimental reliance and promissory estoppel; (4) restitution
from transferee; (5) fraud/misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation;
(7) negligence; (8) declaratory relief; (9) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (11) violation of
Penal Code section 496; (12) loss of consortium; and (13) defamation.
 
Defendant now demurs to all causes of action on the grounds that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  The demurrer is unopposed.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
“To state a cause of action
for breach of contract, it is absolutely essential to plead the terms of the
contract either in haec verba or according to legal effect.”  (Twaite v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 239, 252.)
 
Further, the complaint must
clearly indicate whether the contract at issue is written, oral, or implied by
conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (g).)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
98. In or about December 2021 – May 2022.
Plaintiffs were induced by Defendant Khavilova into entering into an oral
agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement”), whereby Plaintiffs
agreed to invest money with Monika. In exchange for the foregoing, Monika was
to repay to Plaintiffs all investment monies totaling approximately
$1,400,000+/-, plus profits because no one invests for free, profits exceeding
$1,000,000, plus certain contingent compensation and bonuses based on the
performance of the investment. 
 
99. On information and belief, there was an
agreement between Defendant Khavilova and Monika whereby Monika would give
Defendant Khavilova a financial return in exchange for inducing Plaintiffs into
investing with Monika. 
 
100. Plaintiffs performed all the covenants,
conditions, and obligations that were required on their part to be performed
under the Agreement, except insofar as such performance was waived, prevented,
or excused by the acts or omissions of Defendants, or any of them. 
 
101. The Agreement also contained an implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This covenant required that each party
to the Agreement act with fairness and good faith towards the other, and that
neither party take any action to prevent the other from reaping the benefits of
the relationship. 
 
102. Defendants, and each of them, have breached
the express and/or implied terms of the aforementioned Agreement by, among
other things: 
 
a. Failing and refusing to return funds; 
 
b. Failing to account for where the investment
monies went; 
 
c. Failing and refusing to execute a formal
agreement in connection with the foregoing, despite their repeated promises to
do so; 
 
d. Arbitrarily increasing the amount of
investment money that needed to be paid; 
 
e. Attempting to unilaterally change material
provisions of the Agreement to be contingent on the payment of further money; 
 
f. Using money intended for investment for
personal use; 
 
103. In addition, Plaintiffs are informed and
believe and based upon such information and belief, allege that Defendants, and
each of them, have materially breached the express terms of the Agreement, as
well as the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, by other acts or
omissions. Plaintiffs will seek leave of Court to amend this Complaint at such
time as Plaintiffs discovers the other acts or omissions of Defendants, or any
of them, constituting such a breach. 
 
104. As a direct and proximate result of the
aforementioned breaches by Defendants, and each of them, as alleged herein,
Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount that has yet to be ascertained,
including consequential and incidental damages, which amount of the principle
exceeded a million dollars $1.4 million, plus profit that was promised by
Monika, together with interest thereon at the legal rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum. When Plaintiffs ascertain the exact amount of said damages, they
will seek leave of Court to amend this Complaint to set forth said amount.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 98-104.)  
 
            Although the Complaint alleges there
was an oral contract between Plaintiffs and Monika, and “on information and
belief” there may have been a contract between Defendant and Monika whereby
Monika agreed to pay Defendant kickbacks on investment referrals Defendant made
to Monika, there is no allegation that any written, oral, or implied-by-conduct
contract existed as between Plaintiffs and Defendant.  
 
            At best, the Complaint alleges that
Defendant induced Plaintiffs to enter into an oral contract with Monika by
recommending her as a resource regarding elderly housing programs and vouching
for her trustworthiness.  But this is
insufficient to establish the existence, form (written, oral, or implied by
conduct), or essential terms of any agreement between Plaintiffs and Defendant.
 
Thus, the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for breach of contract by Plaintiffs against Defendant.  
 
                                                      
ii.         
Second Cause
of Action – Breach of Implied Contract
 
The Complaint alleges: 
 
106. Plaintiffs submitted payments to Monika
pursuant to the Agreement, an implied term of which was that Monika would
disclose all relevant details and information regarding the investments, which
they failed to do. 
 
107. In addition, a further implied term of such
oral agreement was that, if any monies were made based on the investment,
Plaintiffs would be further compensated in proportion to their increased
investment amounts. 
 
108. Plaintiffs are informed and believes, and
based upon such information and belief, alleges that Defendants, and each of
them, have actually taken Plaintiffs’ investment money for their own use,
effectively embezzling it from the investment. 
 
109. Plaintiffs performed all of the covenants,
conditions, and obligations that were required on their part to be performed
under the Agreement, except insofar as such performance was waived, prevented,
or excused by the acts or omissions of Defendants, or any of them. 
 
110. As a direct and proximate result of the
aforementioned breaches by Defendants, and each of them, as alleged herein,
Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount that has yet to be ascertained,
including consequential and incidental damages, which amount is at least $1.4
million, together with interest thereon at the legal rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum. When Plaintiffs ascertains the exact amount of said damages, they
will seek leave of Court to amend this Complaint to set forth said amount.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 106-110.)
 
            As discussed above, the Complaint
does not allege the existence, form, or terms of any contract as between
Plaintiffs and Defendant.  Therefore, the
Court similarly sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of
action.  
 
                                                    
iii.         
Third Cause
of Action – Detrimental Reliance and Promissory Estoppel
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
With respect to Defendant, the
Complaint alleges:
 
11. On or about December 2021, the Plaintiffs
were looking for elderly programs for Plaintiff Marina’s elderly relatives and
consulted with Defendant Marina Khavilova (hereinafter “Defendant Khavilova”),
whom the Plaintiffs have known for over ten years and trusted her judgment.
Plaintiff Marina asked Defendant Khavilova if she knew of any programs for the
elderly that elderly relatives could apply for. Defendant Khavilova responded
that she currently did not. 
 
12. Shortly thereafter, Defendant Khavilova
called persistently until Plaintiff Marina eventually picked up. Defendant
Khavilova, stated in an excited voice, that she knows an important person, who
she trusts, is very credible, and can provide more information. Defendant
Khavilova directed Plaintiffs to Monika Norashkharyan, and, on information and
belief, did so for her own financial gain. 
 
13. According to Defendant Khavilova, the
Defendant could help them with information and guidance regarding programs in
Los Angeles due to her employment at the Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD).
 
[…]
 
17. Plaintiffs were convinced of Monika’s
credibility, honesty, and good faith on multiple basis. First, the introduction
from Defendant Khavilova, who spoke highly of Monika and repeated that her and
her ex-husband have had many successful investments with her. Second, the fact
that Monika invited Plaintiff Marina to her home. Third, that Monika
represented to Plaintiffs that her and her relatives are high level government
officials. Finally, the representations that Monika worked for the LAHD, and
emphasized this by having Plaintiffs Marina and Mikhail pick up the Monika from
her supposed place of work. 
 
18. The representation by Defendant Khavilova
that Monika was trustworthy was a significant factor informing Plaintiffs’
belief that Monika was a compliant, law-abiding citizen, with a high degree of
credibility.
 
[…]
 
21. Monika emphasized she had a “unique” and
“special” opportunity that was only available to the Plaintiffs because of
their referral from Marina Khavilova, and that Marina Khavilova, her ex-husband
and many other people that she knows, had also invested a lot of money with
Monika, creating the appearance of legitimacy.
 
22. Monika offered to invest in different
projects as well as the purchase of cars on very favorable terms with the
implementation period of the projects to be several months, at the latest. 
 
23. Mrs. Siretskiy had no doubts about Monika’s
honest since she knew Marina Khavilova for many years and trusted her very
much, also understanding that if she recommended Monika, then this was a person
in whom Plaintiffs could place their trust.
 
[…]
 
28. Plaintiffs, acting in reliance on Monika’s
representations, withdrew a lot of money from bank accounts, crypto, family
members, from investments, to invest with starting from December 2021 – May
2022.
 
29. From December 2021 to May 2022, Plaintiff
Marina & Mikhail Siretskiy, brought Monika large sums of money on a weekly
(and sometimes daily) basis, with the confidence that Monika, her family, and
her friends, were trustworthy people. 
 
30. In order to reassure Plaintiffs of their
venture’s legitimacy, Monika would repeatedly mention that her family members
and friends, having previously invested their cash for many years into many of
Monika’s endeavors, and that no one has ever lost money with her. However,
Plaintiffs now know that this was a lie, and that Monika has left behind a long
list of prior “investor” victims who had all lost their money to Monika and
were threatened when they demanded repayment. 
 
31. However, once Plaintiffs made their initial
investment, Monika demanded more. Monika manipulated, demanded, cried, made up
many stories, called 20-40 times per day, day and night, and did everything she
could to take money, and even that was not enough. Monika created URGENT
stories and stated that she needed URGENT CASH or else Plaintiffs risked losing
their entire investment.
 
[…]
 
40. On or about February 5, 2022, Monika
frantically called Plaintiffs a dozen times asking for “urgent help” as she
borrowed $50,000 and the debt needed to be paid urgently, which Plaintiffs did
with the understanding and promise from Monika that they would quickly be paid
back.
 
[…]
 
113. Here, Defendant Khavilova reasonably
expected to induce reliance on the part of the Plaintiffs, repeatedly assuring
Plaintiffs that Monika was a trustworthy person with whom they could safely
invest money. 
 
114. Plaintiffs’ reliance was both reasonable and
foreseeable in light of Defendant's statements, and as a result Defendant’s
statements had the intended effect of causing Plaintiffs to provide additional
funds to their detriment. 
 
115. "[A] cause of action for promissory
estoppel . . . substitutes reliance on a promise for consideration . . . . [i]f
actual consideration was given by the promisee, promissory estoppel does not
apply." (ECF No. 62 at 14 (quoting Fleet v. Bank of Am., N.A. (2014) 178
Cal. Rptr. 3d 18, 26-27.) 
 
116. Since detrimental reliance is an essential
feature of promissory estoppel, that doctrine cannot be invoked where the
promisee's reliance was bargained for, the law of consideration being
applicable in such a case; it is only where the promisee's reliance was
unbargained for that there is room for the application of the doctrine. (Healy
v. Brewster, (1963) 59 Cal. 2d 455, 463.) 
 
117. Whether or not an individual transfer was
bargained for or not, the twin doctrines of Detrimental Reliance and Promissory
Estoppel stand for the proposition that Defendants cannot accept the
performance of Plaintiffs under the Agreement without giving them the benefit
of the bargain.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 11-13, 17-18, 21-23, 28-31, 40,
113-117.)  
 
            Although
the Complaint outlines various promises made by Monika, the only “promise”
Defendant is alleged to have made is        that
Defendant trusts Monika, that Monika is credible, and that Monika can help
Plaintiffs find a housing program for their elderly relatives because of
Monika’s employment with the Los Angeles Housing Department (“LAHD.”)  (Complaint ¶¶ 11-13.)  The Court does not find that this constitutes
a promise that is clear and unambiguous in its terms sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for promissory estoppel against Defendant.
 
            Further,
the Complaint alleges only that Defendant referred Plaintiffs to Monika to help
Plaintiffs find a housing program for their elderly relatives.  (Complaint ¶¶ 11-13.)  It does not allege Plaintiffs commented as to
any investment opportunities at all, or Monika’s trustworthiness/capability
with managing investments.  Rather, the
Complaint alleges it was Monika who brought up investment topics beyond the
scope of finding a housing program for the elderly once Plaintiffs contacted
Monika.  (Complaint ¶ 20.)  Thus, in context, it was not reasonable or
foreseeable that Plaintiffs would invest money with Monika in reliance upon
Defendant’s referral to Monika regarding elderly housing and support programs. 
 
Therefore, the Complaint fails
to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for promissory
estoppel against Defendant.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Fourth Cause
of Action – Restitution
 
“Under the law of restitution,
an individual is required to make restitution if he or she is unjustly enriched
at the expense of another.  A person is
enriched if the person receives a benefit at another's expense.”    (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 389 [cleaned up.]) “However, the fact that one person benefits
another is not, by itself, sufficient to require restitution. The person
receiving the benefit is required to make restitution only if the circumstances
are such that, as between the two individuals, it is unjust for the person to
retain it.”  (Ibid.)   Here,
Plaintiffs allege:
 
99. On information and belief, there was an
agreement between Defendant Khavilova and Monika whereby Monika would give
Defendant Khavilova a financial return in exchange for inducing Plaintiffs into
investing with Monika.
 
[…]
 
121. Defendants, each of them, must restore to
Plaintiffs money that Defendants received from Monika, but that really should
belong to Plaintiffs, as Defendants knew, or reasonably should have known, that
Monika embezzled or otherwise misappropriated the money from Plaintiffs. 
 
122. Here, Defendants have received money from
Monika which came from Plaintiffs. To allow Defendants to keep this money would
be unjust enrichment. 
 
123. Courts have applied California Penal Code
section 496 in a civil case where a refused to repay his loan when the lender
asked for her money back. The Monika thus “withheld” stolen funds, constituting
a violation of subdivision (a) and triggering civil liability under subdivision
(c). The fact that he was never convicted criminally did not matter. (Bell v.
Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041.) 
 
124. When Plaintiffs asked for the benefits of
their investment and/or the return of their investment funds, Defendants
refused. 
 
125. Defendant has therefore withheld stolen
funds pursuant to section 496 and is liable for embezzlement, treble damages,
and attorney’s fees.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 99, 121-125.)
 
Therefore, the Complaint
adequately alleges that Defendant wrongfully received and kept money Defendant
knew Monika embezzled from Plaintiffs. 
Whether that actually occurred is a factual issue to be resolved at
later stages of the litigation.
 
                                                      
v.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Fraud, Deceit, Misrepresentation and Sixth Cause of Action –
Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
11. On or about December 2021, the Plaintiffs
were looking for elderly programs for Plaintiff Marina’s elderly relatives and
consulted with Defendant Marina Khavilova (hereinafter “Defendant Khavilova”),
whom the Plaintiffs have known for over ten years and trusted her judgment.
Plaintiff Marina asked Defendant Khavilova if she knew of any programs for the
elderly that elderly relatives could apply for. Defendant Khavilova responded
that she currently did not. 
 
12. Shortly thereafter, Defendant Khavilova
called persistently until Plaintiff Marina eventually picked up. Defendant
Khavilova, stated in an excited voice, that she knows an important person, who
she trusts, is very credible, and can provide more information. Defendant
Khavilova directed Plaintiffs to Monika Norashkharyan, and, on information and
belief, did so for her own financial gain. 
 
13. According to Defendant Khavilova, the
Defendant could help them with information and guidance regarding programs in
Los Angeles due to her employment at the Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD).
 
[…]
 
127. As stated above, Defendant Khavilova
misrepresented to Plaintiffs that Monika was a government worker of high
status, that Monika could use her position at the LAHD to get help Plaintiffs
and obtain advantageous investments, and that Defendant Khavilova and others
had successfully invested in this venture before. 
 
128. Defendant persuaded Plaintiff through these
representations to provide Monika with their personal funds under the guise of
and ‘investment.’ 
 
129. Defendant had no reasonable grounds to
believe that these misrepresentations were true. Defendant had full knowledge
of Monika’s duplicitous nature and that Plaintiffs’ investment was not going to
the purchase of cars which could be sold for profit as promised by Monika. 
 
130. Plaintiffs were justified in relying upon
Defendant’s representations because Defendant of the longtime relationship of
trust between Plaintiffs and Defendant Khavilova. 
 
131. Defendant intended to induce Plaintiffs to
rely on her misrepresentations. Defendant knew that because of her
representation that Plaintiffs would be harmed, and were harmed, by the loss of
their funds and reputation within the community where they live and work.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 11-13, 127-131.)
 
            Although paragraph 127 characterizes
the representations Defendant made to Plaintiffs as including representations
that “Monika could use her position at the LAHD to get help Plaintiffs and
obtain advantageous investments, and that Defendant Khavilova and others had
successfully invested in this venture before,” Plaintiff appears to conflate
the representations allegedly made by Monika, concerning the investment
opportunity, with the representations allegedly made by Defendant, which are
only that (1) Defendant trusts Monika, (2) Monika works for the LAHD and (3)
Monika can help Plaintiffs find a housing program for their elderly relatives.  (Complaint ¶¶ 11-13.)   
 
Of those three
representations, the only one alleged to be untrue is that Monika works for the
LAHD.  (See Complaint ¶ 16 [“Plaintiffs
would later learn that this was a false representation”]).  But the Complaint does not allege any
specific facts demonstrating or suggesting that Defendant either knew that
Monika did not in fact work for the LAHD or had no reasonable grounds to
believe that she did at the time Defendant made this representation to
Plaintiffs.  Further, as discussed above,
it was not reasonable or foreseeable for Plaintiffs to rely on a representation
that Monika worked for the LAHD in connection for a referral for elder housing
services, by investing large sums of money with her.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer as to the fifth and sixth causes
of action.
 
                                                    
vi.         
Seventh
Cause of Action – Negligence
 
“The elements of a negligence
cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.)  Here, Plaintiffs allege:
 
138. Defendants had a legal duty of care to
Plaintiffs to use due care in not providing Plaintiffs with scams or false
investments. 
 
139. Monika negligently failed to invest and
manage trust assets as a prudent investor would. 
 
140. Defendant Khavilova knew, or reasonably
should have known, that Monika would misappropriate Plaintiffs’ investments. 
 
141. Defendant breached this duty to protect
Plaintiffs investments in various ways, including spending money given to
Monika by Plaintiffs to repay other debts, buy personal property for herself or
her family, and by failing to account for where the money was going when
confronted by Plaintiffs. 
 
142. Plaintiff were harmed because they lost
their investment money, which would have been used to repay a loan on their
family house, thereby depriving Plaintiffs and their children of a home. 
 
143. Defendant’s breach was a direct and
proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ resulting harm
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 138-143.)        
 
Thus, the Complaint alleges
Defendant owed a duty of care to not provide Plaintiffs with scams or false
investments, which Defendant allegedly breached by recommending Monika and
vouching for her trustworthiness, which caused Plaintiffs to invest money with
Monika, resulting in Plaintiffs’ damages. 
As such, the Complaint sufficiently alleges “ultimate facts” to allege a
cause of action for negligence.  
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer as to the seventh cause of action for
negligence.
 
                                                   
vii.         
Eighth Cause
of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
To qualify for declaratory
relief, a plaintiff must show their action presents two essential elements:
“(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or obligations of a
party.”  (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 527, 546.)  Here, the Complaint
alleges:
 
147. An actual controversy has arisen between
Plaintiffs and Defendants, and DOES 1-10, and each of them, in that Plaintiffs
contend and Defendants denies, that Plaintiff is owed no monies, and that
Defendant owes nothing in exchange for the hundreds of thousands of dollars
that Plaintiffs transferred to Monika between December 24, 2021 to December 1,
2022. 
 
148. Plaintiffs desire a judicial determination
that: 
 
a. There was a valid and enforceable contract for
investment of monies between the Plaintiffs and Monika; 
 
b. Defendant Khavilova, and DOES 1-10, each of
them who received money from Monika, have received stolen/embezzled money from
Monika;
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 147-148.)
 
While the Court agrees with
Defendant that whether there was a valid and enforceable contract between
Plaintiffs and Monika is irrelevant to this lawsuit against Defendant,
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient “ultimate facts” that Defendant knowingly
received and kept money Monika embezzled from Plaintiffs[1].  
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action for declaratory relief.
 
                                                 
viii.         
Ninth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
            The
Complaint alleges:
 
31. However, once Plaintiffs made their initial
investment, Monika demanded more. Monika manipulated, demanded, cried, made up
many stories, called 20-40 times per day, day and night, and did everything she
could to take money, and even that was not enough. Monika created URGENT
stories and stated that she needed URGENT CASH or else Plaintiffs risked losing
their entire investment.
 
[…]
 
33. During this time period, Plaintiff Marina was
approximately 8 months pregnant, which leveraged to obtain additional personal
information from Plaintiffs (including the aforementioned copies of their
ID’s), introductions to Plaintiff’s friends and family, to convince them to
“invest” as well.
 
[…]
 
35. Taking advantage of the fact that Mrs.
Siretskiy was in the last weeks of pregnancy and could not rationally assess
the situation, Monika continued to manipulate her to obtain new funds, by
creating fake stories and pushing serious urgency. 
 
36. On February 2, 2022, the day that Plaintiff
Marina went into labor, Monika called Plaintiffs to extort another $25,000
under the pretext of risking a deal failure unless they made the payment within
a few hours. On information and belief, Monika took this action to create
artificial fear and uncertainty, circumventing Plaintiffs’ better judgement. 
 
37. Fearing the loss of the whole venture along
with their existing investment and additional threats made by Monika, Plaintiff
Mikhail drove to meet with Monika to provide her yet another envelope of cash,
and as a result of Monika’s extortion, Plaintiffs suffered severe emotional
distress and Plaintiff Mikhail missed the birth of his son, as he was forced to
meet with Monika for this urgent meeting that she created for her benefit. To
Plaintiffs it seemed that nothing was more important to Monika at that moment
than to extort money immediately.
 
[…]
 
40. On or about February 5, 2022, Monika
frantically called Plaintiffs a dozen times asking for “urgent help” as she
borrowed $50,000 and the debt needed to be paid urgently, which Plaintiffs did
with the understanding and promise from Monika that they would quickly be paid
back. 
 
41. Monika begged for help and swore by her
children that her sister’s friend Marina (unrelated to Plaintiff Marina) and
her husband were coming to her house with threats and demanding money since
Marina’s mother and brother were in Mexico, and she needed to pay her lawyer to
take them to USA. However, Plaintiffs later learned that this was untrue. 
 
42. Plaintiff Mikhail, wanting to help Monika
took out a loan in the amount of $50,000 under a contract in his name from many
people who trusted him. Shortly after, he transferred this amount to Monika so
she could solve this problem. 
 
43. At this point a lot of Cash has been given to
Monika, and everyone was very worried about all the investments made, but
receiving nothing but empty promises, delays, and fake stories from Monika and
her group.
 
44. When pressed, Monika vowed in tears that soon
they would get their investments back, and that they would be able to pay back
to the people the money under the contracts, and the ones who gave their money
without a contract. 
 
45. A few days later, Monika called again saying
that due to the delay in payment, the debt had risen to $100,000, and that
additional money was required to pay it. She also stated that Arnold Khavilov
(Marina Khavilova’s ex-husband), was also helping her to resolve this urgent
matter, and she expects Plaintiffs to do the same. Plaintiffs would later learn
that this was another fake story, created with the sole intention of extorting
more money out of Plaintiffs through false urgency. 
 
46. The financial strain on the Plaintiffs
escalated as they, along with their relatives, secured substantial loans and
resorted to selling valuable assets, borrowing from people, to fulfill Monika’s
increasing demands and threats. 
 
47. These additional demands were ostensibly to
cover additional costs attributed to issues arising from another investor,
leading the Plaintiffs to contribute additional hundredths of thousands of
dollars. 
 
48. On information and belief, this and other
emergencies were fabricated by in order to extort additional funds from the
Plaintiffs under the guise of helping the and her family out of trouble. 
 
49. As time passed, Plaintiffs and their friends
and family who had invested with Monika began to demand their money back
because they needed the money for their own projects and investments. 
 
50. Further, when the return of funds was being
demanded by many supposed investors, Monika would urgently run to the emergency
room with false complaints about poor health condition. Every time Plaintiff
Marina or other investors demanded their money back, Monika urgently ended up
in the Hospital or was unable to communicate due to her “poor health. She would
make every excuse in the book to avoid the subject or returning of the funds. 
 
51. Monika, fully aware of the dire circumstances
facing Plaintiffs’ family, ––including homelessness, loss of the property that
they were building into their family home, multiple hospitalizations, and a
pregnancy with complications––persisted in her demands for money, exacerbating
the stress and fear within the Plaintiff’s family.
 
52. This harassment extended to unannounced
visits to their home, 20-40 calls per day (day and night), further intensifying
their anxiety for their personal safety, as evidenced by suspicious activities
around their residence and their children's school, including being followed by
a guy in a white Tesla with the California license plate 8FPM676. 
 
53. Over the following months, Monika continued
to prey upon Plaintiffs’ trust and emotional vulnerability to extract more
money from them. 
 
54. At the same time Monika insisted that she
needed money desperately in order to keep the investments from failing, in July
2022, Monika's husband, Gevorg Norashkaryan, began driving a new Mercedes S 580
that he uses as a personal car, and this car is registered to a third party, as
the house in which Monika lives.
 
55. On information and belief, the money
Plaintiffs invested was unlawfully embezzled by Defendants, and
co-conspirators, and went into buying this car and other expensive property
which Monika hid.
 
d. Harassment and Emotional Distress 
 
56. After the birth of the Plaintiffs’ third
child and endless sleepless nights, Plaintiff Marina was very tired and
vulnerable, and it was this position that Monika skillfully used, continuing to
manipulate her professionally using special techniques, blackmail, and
intimidation, referring to an example of people who “disappeared” or went to
jail after her brother and his group “dealt with” their victims. 
 
57. In April 2022, Monika again, in tears and
panic, began to call Plaintiff Marina 20 times a day begging for help. This
time, she had to urgently return $40,000 to one investor who was standing in
front of Monika’s workplace with a poster stating, “MONA IS SCAMMER”, and
demanded to urgently return the debt that Monika had taken from her earlier. 
 
58. Monika begged Mrs. Siretskiy to help her and
swore once again by the lives of her children that this problem must be
urgently solved, because the employees are scared, and she is afraid of losing
the loyalty of her supervisor. 
 
59. Once again, in a state of complete emotional
depression, and disorientation created by Monika, Plaintiff Marina requested
her husband to help Monika solve the financial issue, and he again took the
money under a contract on his name so that Monika could get out of this
situation, so they and their friends could get back the money invested. 
 
60. Plaintiff Marina feared for her family,
because she understood that if they insistently demanded their money back, then
Monika’s brother (Shawn) and his group, will do something bad to them because,
Monika told Plaintiffs very often how her brother “dealt” with people, namely
by setting them up and breaking their lives. 
 
61. Plaintiff Marina was very scared because, on
the one hand, they invested a lot of money together with friends, family, and
acquaintances and they did not want to lose the money invested, but on the
other hand, she understood that anyone who would interfere with Monika could
disappear , as Monika had stated and implied anytime someone demanded their
money back. 
 
62. Plaintiff Marina’s husband began to worry
very seriously about the money that they gave to Monika, the contracts they
took to pay Monika’s debts, and a Hard Money Loan for the development of his
personal home, which would be put to auction if not repaid. 
 
[…]
 
72. Monika could call Plaintiff Marina 20-40+
times during the day and night, accusing Plaintiff Marina and demanding urgent
money to resolve the issues related to Malkov, and again threatening the
Siretskiy family every step of the way. 
 
73. Monika kept crying and repeating that her
brother was very angry and that if something happened to her, it would be very
bad for everyone, and he would make sure that all the people causing problems
would eventually be “dealt with.” 
 
74. While Monika was crying and screaming, she
also assured the Siretskiy Family, that she would return ALL money, so the
Siretskiy family could re-pay their loans, contracts, and people they took
money from, that went to her during her extortion.
 
75. Despite her promises, Plaintiffs’ family home
project was transferred to the Hard Money Lender and auctioned. Monika took
advantage of Plaintiffs’ desperate situation and offered to get their
development project in Calabasas back with the help of her family lawyer and
brothers' connections, due to their high authority. 
 
76. Later Mrs. Siretskiy found out, that Monika
had made Plaintiffs’ relatives take out large loans and borrowed money from
everyone they knew to “help” the Plaintiffs, going so far as to pawn personal
jewelry including diamond wedding rings, Mr. Siretskiy’s childhood neck chain,
and much more. 
 
77. Through this fraud, the Siretskiy family and
many others, ended up giving Monika hundredths of thousands more because she
constantly invented urgent stories regarding the investment, changed the
amounts, and added various expenses that Plaintiff Marina had to reimburse her
for the problems caused by Malkov. 
 
78. Monika knew that the Plaintiffs’ families
were in dire straits, and their children were left without a roof over their
heads. She knew that Mrs. Siretskiy was in the hospital 5 times in critical
condition and knew that Mrs. Siretskiy was pregnant with her fourth child, but
she continued to harass Mrs. Siretskiy and extort more money. 
 
79. Monika came to the Siretskiys several times
early in the morning in a panic and tears, she also came at night and stood
near their house when Mrs. Siretskiy did not pick up the phone. She reproached
Mrs. Siretskiy for the situation that happened because of Malkov and shouted
that Mrs. Siretskiy has no right to think about her children, house and family,
until Monika solves this problem, or no one will get the money back, or worse,
will be “dealt with.” 
 
80. Plaintiff Marina was scared for her life, for
the lives of her husband, and her children. The threats and lies kept
escalating, and Monika was not shy about saying that people’s lives were at
risk. The escalation of worry continued, as they now weren’t sure who they are
dealing with. 
 
81. Plaintiff Marina noticed strange people and
cars came to the school of her eldest son, who followed them in the place where
they lived. Mr. Siretskiy a few times spotted someone who, on information and
belief, he believes to have been Mr. Malkov and his friends, following their
family too. 
 
82. The Plaintiffs also spotted a suspicious
white Tesla (California license plate 8FPM676) which followed their family and
children. 
 
83. After Malkov opened a lawsuit against Monika,
she knelt in front of him, kissed his hands, and begged him to withdraw the
lawsuit against her. Monika later stated to Plaintiff Marina, that the main
thing is that Malkov withdraws the lawsuit against her, and then her brother
will “deal” with him, just like with all other people who invested money and
aggressively demanded a return on the investment. 
 
84. Monika would scream and berate Plaintiff
Marina that because of Malkov, and the problems associated with him, all her
relatives took hard money loans to help her, so she was losing $ 6,000,000,
thereby saying that the Plaintiffs would not get their money back.
 
85. Monika also claimed that they were tapping
people’s phones, and eavesdropping on the Siretskiys’ phone conversations, and
phones of other investors. Monika implied and threatened that she had their
bank financial information, and other private personal information. 
 
86. In one of the private telephone conversations
between Mr. & Mrs. Siretskiy, Mrs. Siretskiy's husband became very
indignant and said that they urgently needed to take the money back. Monika
recounted in detail the conversation between Mrs. Siretskiy and her husband and
added at the end: “We know everything what you are talking about and that's why
your husband will be dealt with immediately.” 
 
87. On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff Mikhail texted
Monika: “You have robbed us and many other people, you put down everyone and
you must return the money back, otherwise we will have no choice and we will
have to escalate this matter.” 
 
88. In response, Monika came to Plaintiffs’ house
in tears and panic, saying she would commit suicide. At the same time Monika
received endless calls from people Mrs. Siretskiy had never known before,
demanding refunds. 
 
89. At this point, seeing that Monika had not
merely failed to repay the Plaintiffs, but a host of other “investors,”
Plaintiff Marina finally began to realize that Monika was not a reliable
person, but a profession scammer. 
 
90. On the same day, Monika called Mrs. Siretskiy
again and said: “Do you hear? My brother is talking to someone on the phone and
calling your last name, he said that now he does not know how Mikhail Siretsky
can stay alive and safe, and now nothing will help him.” After that, a series
of very serious setups for Mrs. Siretskiy’s husband began. 
 
91. After Plaintiff Marina informed Monika that
her children had lost their roof over their heads because of her, Monika became
heavily upset. She lost her temper, started yelling, venting that she is not
afraid of anything or anyone, she said exactly what was on her mind with no
hesitation, cursing them and claimed that Plaintiff’s entire family would burn
in hell. 
 
92. From this point, Monika’s threats against the
Siretskiy family became so frequent and specific as to put them in genuine fear
for their lives. Plaintiffs were afraid to go outside, take the kids to school,
or buy groceries because they were afraid of being attacked, as Monika’s stated
goal was now to ruin their lives. 
 
93. Monika has stated many times that she is not
afraid of anyone, because she knows who is backing her up, and who will deal
with any person who causes problems. Overstepping all legal and moral
boundaries, Monika and her group have made it clear many times, that they will
not let anyone in their way. Monika constantly told stories, about how her
brother and his team ruthlessly send people “to places from which no one
returns”. 
 
94. Since the beginning of 2022, Monika and her
group stole and extorted well over a million dollars from the Siretskiy family
and the people who gave her money because of their reputation. Monika extracted
dry the Siretskiy family but also reached many others through the reputation of
the Siretskiy family. 
 
95. Monika and her accomplices contacted the
Siretskiy contacts, business partners, and clients, destroying their business
relationships and spreading lies. Monika and her accomplices met with many
face-to-face, to get them working against the Plaintiffs.
 
[…]
 
150. Defendant Khavilova acted intentionally as
detailed above to deprive Plaintiffs of their money, to cause Plaintiffs
emotional distress in order to make Plaintiffs give Monika additional money,
and to cause Plaintiffs emotional distress in an attempt to dissuade them from
pursuing Monika via legal recourse.
 
151. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer emotional
distress. 
 
152. Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress. 
 
153. Defendants conduct was malicious, oppressive
and fraudulent warranting punitive damages.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 31, 33, 35-37, 40-62, 72-95, 150-153.)
 
            But all of this extreme and
outrageous conduct is alleged on the part of Monika, not Defendant.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action.
 
                                                    
ix.         
Tenth Cause
of Action – Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
 
“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California
is typically analyzed  by reference to
two ‘theories' of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’
theory.”  (Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213 (hereafter Spates).)  “[T]he negligent causing of emotional
distress is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence.  The traditional elements of duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damages apply.”  (Eriksson
v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729 [cleaned up.])  
 
“The bystander theory recognizes a duty in the limited class of cases
where a plaintiff “(1) is closely related to the injury victim, (2) is present
at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then
aware that it is causing injury to the victim and, (3) as a result suffers
emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested
witness.”  (Spates, supra,
114 Cal.App.4th at p. 213.)
 
By contrast, “[d]irect victim theory involves a duty owed directly to
the plaintiff that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a
matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.”)  (Spates, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th
at p. 213.)
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
155. Defendant acted negligently as detailed
above. 
 
156. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer emotional
distress. 
 
157. Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress. 
 
158. Defendants conduct was malicious, oppressive
and fraudulent warranting punitive damages.
 
(Complaint
¶ 155-158.)
 
            Here, the Complaint alleges a direct
victim theory, not a bystander theory of negligent infliction of emotional
distress.  However, a direct victim
theory requires that Defendant owe a special duty to the victim, either one
that the Defendant assumed, or is imposed on Defendant as a matter of law, or
that arises out of a special relationship between the two.  As discussed above, Plaintiffs’ negligence
cause of action against Defendant relies solely on the general duty of
care.  Although Plaintiffs allege they
entrusted their investments to Monika to manage, which may have created a
special duty of care as to Monika with respect to the management of their
investment funds, no such allegations giving rise to a special duty are alleged
as to Defendant.   
 
            Therefore, the Complaint fails to
state a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress against
Defendant.
 
                                                      
x.         
Eleventh
Cause of Action – Violation of Penal Code Section 496
 
Section 496 of the Penal Code applies to “Every person who buys or
receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any
manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained” and provides, “Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney’s fees.”  
 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs allege sufficient “ultimate facts” that
Defendant knowingly obtained some of Plaintiffs’ investment money from Monika
that Monika embezzled from Plaintiffs.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the eleventh
cause of action.
 
                                                    
xi.         
Twelfth
Cause of Action – Loss of Consortium
 
The elements for loss of
consortium are “(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the
person injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the
plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4)
the loss was proximately caused by the defendant's act.”  (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior
Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 284–285.)
 
The Complaint does not allege
any of these elements.  Instead, the
Complaint merely alleges:
 
164. In California each spouse has a cause of action for loss of
consortium, as defined herein, caused by a negligent or intentional injury to
the other spouse by a third party.” (Rodriguez v. Bethlehem Steel Corp. (1974)
12 Cal.3d 382, 408 [115 Cal. Rptr. 765, 525 P.2d 669]). Further, the California
Supreme Court in Rodriguez, supra, 12 Cal.3d at page 409, expressly recognized
the right to recover damages for the ‘loss or impairment’ of the plaintiff’s
rights of consortium, and we see no basis to conclude that a loss of consortium
must be so extensive as to be considered complete in order to be compensable.
Instead, a partial loss, or diminution, of consortium is compensable (Mealy v.
BMobile, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal. App. 4Th 1218, 1224 [124 Cal. Rptr. 3d 804]). 
 
165. Further, the concept of consortium includes not only loss of
support or services; it also embraces such elements as love, companionship,
comfort, affection, society, the moral support each spouse gives the other
through the triumph and despair of life, and the deprivation of a spouse’s
physical assistance in operating and maintaining the family home.” (Ledger v.
Tippitt (1985) 164 Cal. App.3d 625, 633 [210 Cal. Rptr. 814], disapproved of on
other grounds in Elden v. Sheldon (1988) 46 Cal.3d 267, 277 [250 Cal. Rptr.
254, 758 P.2d 582]). Also, loss of future consortium is recoverable, including
loss of consortium because of reduced life expectancy. (See Boeken v. Philip
Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 799-800 [108 Cal. Rptr. 3d 806, 230
P.3d 342].) In such a case, this instruction may need to be modified. Future
noneconomic damages should not be reduced to present value. (See Salgado v.
County of L.A. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 629, 646-647 [80 Cal.Rptr.2d 46, 967 P.2d
585]).
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 164-165.)
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the twelfth cause of action.
 
                                                   
xii.         
Thirteenth
Cause of Action – Defamation
 
“The elements of a defamation
claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage.”  (J-M Manufacturing Co., Inc.
v. Phillips & Cohen LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 87, 97.)  Here, Plaintiffs allege:
 
167. Plaintiff is informed and believes
Defendants, and each of them, by the herein described acts, conspired to, and
in fact, did negligently, recklessly, and intentionally cause external
statements of defamation, of and concerning Plaintiff, to third persons and to
the community. 
 
168. The defamatory statements consisted of oral,
knowingly false, and unprivileged communications, intending directly to injure
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s personal, business, and professional reputation.
These statements included the following false and defamatory statements (in
violation of Civil Code §§ 45, 45a and 46(3)(5)) with the meaning and/or
substance as follows: that Plaintiffs are untrustworthy, that Plaintiffs do not
repay their loans, that Plaintiffs prey upon the community. These false and defamatory
statements included express and implied statements that portrayed Plaintiffs
falsely. 
 
169. Plaintiff is informed, believes, and fears
that these false and defamatory per se statements will continue to be made by
Defendants, and each of them, and will be foreseeably recirculated by their
recipients, all to the ongoing harm and injury to Plaintiff’s business,
professional, and personal reputations. Plaintiff also seeks redress in this
action for all foreseeable statements, including his own compelled
self-publication of these defamatory statements. 
 
170. The defamatory meaning of all of the
above-described false and defamatory statements, and their reference to
Plaintiff, were understood by these above-referenced third person recipients
and other members of the community who are known to Defendants, and each of
them, but unknown to Plaintiff at this time. 
 
171. Each of these false defamatory per se
statements (as set forth above) were negligently, recklessly, and intentionally
published in a manner equaling malice and abuse of any alleged conditional
privilege (which Plaintiff denies existed), since the statements, and each of
them, were made with hatred, ill will, and an intent to vex, harass, annoy, and
injure Plaintiff in order to justify the illegal and cruel actions of
Defendants, and each of them, to cause further damage to Plaintiff’s
professional and personal reputation, and to cause him to be turned down and/or
fired from future employment, especially in Los Angeles, California. 
 
172. As a proximate result of the publication and
republication of these defamatory statements by Defendants, and each of them,
Plaintiff has suffered injury to his personal, business, and professional
reputation including suffering embarrassment, humiliation, severe emotional
distress, shunning, anguish, fear, loss of employment, and employability, and
significant economic loss in the form of lost wages and future earnings, all to
Plaintiff’s economic, emotional, and general damage in an amount according to
proof. 
 
173. Defendants, and each of them, committed the
acts alleged herein recklessly, maliciously, fraudulently, and oppressively,
with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff, for an improper and evil
motive amounting to malice (as described above), and which abused and/or
prevented the existence of any conditional privilege, which in fact did not
exist, and with a reckless and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. All
actions of Defendants, and each of them, their agents and employees, herein
alleged were known, ratified and approved by the Defendants, and each of them.
Plaintiff thus is entitled to recover punitive and exemplary damages from
Defendants, and each of them, for these wanton, obnoxious, and despicable acts
in an amount based on the wealth and ability to pay according to proof at time
of trial. 
 
174. Defendant’s defamatory statements were a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff harm. Plaintiff has been damaged in an
amount in excess of the jurisdictional limits of this Court.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 167-174.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently
pleaded “ultimate facts” to withstand demurrer. 
Defendant argues that these statements were all true.  However, whether these statements were in
fact true is a factual issue to be resolved at later stages of the
litigation.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action for defamation. 
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs has failed to meet this burden as they did not
oppose the demurrer and therefore do not address whether leave should be
granted if the demurrer is sustained.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains without leave to amend
Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, ninth, tenth, and
twelfth; but overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
restitution, seventh cause of action for negligence, eighth cause of action for
declaratory relief, eleventh cause of action for violation of Penal Code
section 496, and thirteenth cause of action for defamation.  
 
Defendant shall file and serve an answer to the Complaint on or before
October 23, 2024.
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference to February 20, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties shall comply with California
Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and Further Case
Management Conferences.  In particular, all
parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement
to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725).  
  
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  October 2, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


