 Case Number:  23STCV12746    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
John UNB Doe, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV12746




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of Santa Monica, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
November 13, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Santa Monica
Responding
Party: Plaintiffs John UNB Doe, John USS Doe and John UNG Doe
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiffs John UNB Doe, John USS Doe, and John UNG Doe
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants City of Santa
Monica and Santa Monica Police Activities League, asserting causes of action
for (1) sexual assault; (2) negligence; (3) negligent failure to educate, train
or warn; and (4) violation of the Bane Act. Plaintiffs allege they were
sexually abused as children by City of Santa Monica police officer Eric Uller
while attending the City’s youth programing.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant demurs to the first amended complaint on the ground Plaintiffs
did not comply with the claim presentation requirements of the Government
Claims Act. Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for violation on the
ground that it is barred by the statute of limitations.
 
 The California Legislature passed
AB 218 in 2019, which amended the Government Claims Act to exempt from the
claim presentation requirements “[c]laims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the
Code of Civil Procedure for the recovery of damages suffered as a result of
childhood sexual assault” regardless of the date the wrongful conduct occurred.
Prior to AB 218, only claims that occurred after January 1, 2009 were exempt.
Under AB 218, Plaintiffs were not required to comply with the claim
presentation requirements.
 
Defendant asserts that AB 218 violates the California Constitution by
retroactively imposing liability on a past occurrence. Defendant cites no cases
directly on point, but there is recent authority rejecting Defendant’s
arguments. (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 415, 425-31 [rejecting constitutional challenge to AB 218.]) The
motion cannot be granted on this basis.
 
CCP § 340.1 acts to extend the statute of limitations for “an action for
recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault.”
Plaintiffs’ Bane Act cause of action is for recovery of damages resulting from
childhood sexual assault. The statutes of limitations for causes of action that
do not arise from childhood sexual assault do not apply here.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 