  Case Number:  23AHCV01023    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Pasadena Ho, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23AHCV01023




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Macoy Capital Mortgage, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
November 13, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to
Complaint and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Macoy
Capital Mortgage, LLC
Responding
Party: Plaintiffs Pasadena Ho, LLC and Wolfe Air Aviation, Ltd
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On May 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Pasadena Ho, LLC and Wolfe Air Aviation, LTD sued
Defendants, asserting causes of action for (1) fraud; (2) conversion; (3) quiet
title; (4) reformation; (5) cancellation of instrument; (6) fraud and deceit;
and (7) conversion. Plaintiffs allege Defendants converted the proceeds of
loans secured against Plaintiffs’ real properties, the Raymond Property and
Patrician Property.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Fraud and Deceit
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
Defendant demurs to the causes of
action for fraud and deceit on the ground that Plaintiffs have failed to allege
facts with the requisite specificity and failed to allege any
misrepresentations. Plaintiffs allege that Macoy and its
principal, Mitch O., represented to Wolfe that they would assist Pasadena Ho,
LLC in refinancing a $550,000 encumbrance against Pasadena Ho’s 50% interest in
the Raymond Ave. Property, and that Wolfe could use excess loan proceeds for
business purposes. Macoy represented that it would lend $725,000 to PH LLC.
(Complaint, ¶25.) Instead, Macoy issued a fraudulent loan to Defendants in the
amount of $812,500 without Wolfe’s required approval and signature. Macoy also
encumbered 100% of the Raymond Ave. Property and Wolfe received none of the
excess loan proceeds. (Complaint, ¶28.)
 
As to the Patrician property, Plaintiffs
allege Macoy falsely represented that it would retain
$72,000 of WAA’s loan proceeds and make interest-only monthly payments for the
first twelve months on WAA’s behalf. Plaintiffs allege Macoy made this
misrepresentation with the intent of inducing WAA to agree to the arrangement,
permitting Macoy to obtain $72,000. Macoy allegedly knew its representation was
false and did not intend to fulfill its promise. Later, Macoy sold the loan
without making the required interest payments.
 
The above allegations are sufficient to state causes of action for
fraud. 
 
 
 
B. Conversion, Quiet Title, and Cancellation of Instruments
 
Defendant asserts the claims for conversion, quiet title, and
cancellation of instruments[1]
on the ground that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts. As discussed,
Plaintiffs allege Defendants retained money belonging to Plaintiffs, took out
loans greater than what the parties agreed to, and encumbered 100% of a
property rather than the agreed upon 50%. These facts support causes of action
for conversion, quiet title, and cancellation of instruments.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
C. Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive damages and
attorney’s fees. As Plaintiffs have stated causes of action for fraud,
Plaintiffs have pleaded entitlement to punitive damages. The Court declines to
strike the prayer for attorney’s fees as a basis for them may appear later in
litigation. The Court notes that a prayer for attorney’s fees does not in
itself entitle that party to attorney’s fees.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.


 


