  Case Number:  23CHCV01335    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
11-19-24
Case
# 23CHCV01335, David Griffiths, et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Trial
Date: 11-23-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTIES: Plaintiffs David Griffiths and Carolyn Griffiths
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant American Motor Company, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 7, 8, 19-23,
27, and 28.
 
RULING: Parties are ordered to conduct a
meaningful meet and confer.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
May 5, 2023, Plaintiffs David Griffiths and Carolyn Griffiths (Plaintiffs)
filed this Song-Beverly action against Defendant American Honda Motor Company,
Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to repair Plaintiffs’ 2020
Honda Pilot vehicle and its various defects.
 
Plaintiffs
propounded Special Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant on May 1, 2024. On May
31, 2024, Defendant served their initial responses. 
 
After
receiving Defendant’s initial responses, Plaintiffs sent Defendant a meet and
confer letter regarding Defendant’s objections and responses. (Declaration of
Diana Rivero [Rivero Decl.], ¶ 16, Exh. 11.) 
 
On
July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel of record, Diana Rivero, emailed and called
opposing counsel to set a time to meet and confer telephonically. (Rivero
Decl., Exh. 14, at p. 2.) On July 17, 2024, opposing counsel, Kevin Zipser,
emailed Rivero to set up a time to meet and confer. (Rivero Decl., Exh. 14, at
p. 1.) Counsel met and conferred on July 18, 2024, and Rivero sent Zipser an
email confirming that Defendant would provide supplemental responses within two
days. (Rivero Decl., Exh. 16, at p. 1.) In this same email, Rivero informed
Zipser she would be out of the office from July 19, 2024 through July 26, 2024.
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant
served supplemental responses on July 18, 2024. (Rivero Decl., Exh. 17, at p.
17.) Defendant did not address special interrogatory Nos. 7, 8, 19-23, 27, and
28 in its supplemental responses.
 
On
August 14, 2024, Rivero emailed Zipser noting that Defendant’s supplemental
responses were missing responses to special interrogatory Nos. 7, 8, 19-2, and
27-29. (Rivero Decl., Exh. 19, at p. 1.) Rivero also asked Zipser to stipulate
to extending the deadline for moving to compel these further responses to
August 19, 2024. (Ibid.) On August 15, 2024, Rivero emailed Zipser and
left a voicemail requesting that Zipser follow up on her August 14th email.
(Rivero Decl., Exh. 20, at p. 1.) Zipser did not respond. On August 16, 2024,
emailed and left a voicemail for Zipser again. (Rivero Decl., Exh. 21.) Zipser
again did not respond.
 
On
August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel further responses to the special
interrogatories. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s responses to special
interrogatory Nos. 7, 8, 19-23, 27, and 28 were inadequate due to Defendant’s
boilerplate objections.
 
On
November 5, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to Plaintiffs’ separate
statement. Defendant argues that it provided code compliant responses which
included objections to each individual special interrogatory. Defendant also
argues that Plaintiffs’ special interrogatories are vague, overly broad, and irrelevant
because they seek information beyond the scope of this case.
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply on November 12, 2024. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant failed to
meet its burden of providing facts which show its objections are valid. 
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs
argue the information sought by the interrogatories is discoverable because “it
will establish that (1) Defendant was aware that the Electrical Defect is a
commonly observed problem plaguing 2020 Honda Pilot vehicles, (2) Defendant
could not repair the Electrical Defect regardless of the number of repair
opportunities afforded, and (3) Defendant knew (or should have known) that the
defect was not repaired when Defendant failed to promptly repurchase
Plaintiffs’ vehicle prior to the commencement of this lawsuit, which is
relevant to Defendant’s liability for civil penalties under Civ. Code § 1794
subd. (c).” (Motion, p. 1:17-23.)
 
Plaintiffs
state they “seek information concerning Defendant’s (1) internal investigation
and analysis of the Electrical Defect plaguing Plaintiffs’ vehicle –
establishing Defendant’s awareness of said defect, knowledge that it could not
repair the vehicle regardless of the number of repair attempts afforded, and failure
to repurchase Plaintiffs’ vehicle notwithstanding this knowledge (See, Special
Interrogatory Nos. 19-23, 27, and 28); and (2) Song-Beverly Act policies,
procedures, and practices (See, Special Interrogatory Nos. 7, 8, and 23).”
(Motion, p. 1:11-16.) Plaintiffs allege they attempted to resolve this
discovery dispute but has been unsuccessful because Defendant has been
unresponsive to Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant reiterates its same objections and argues that Plaintiffs
mischaracterizes its objections which are code compliant responses. Defendant
insists that Plaintiffs seek information beyond the scope of this case because
Plaintiffs only need to prove the subject vehicle had a nonconformity, the
Plaintiffs presented the vehicle to an authorized representative of the vehicle
manufacturer, and the manufacturer or his representative did not repair the
nonconformity after a reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiffs’ requests seek
information about procedures and bulletins which are completely irrelevant to
this case.
 
The
following is an example of one of the responses at issue: 
 
Special Interrogatory Number 28
 
Please IDENTIFY
all databases maintained by YOU or on YOUR behalf containing electronically
stored information relating to YOUR efforts (or efforts on YOUR behalf) to
investigate, diagnose, assess, determine, modify, repair, and/or evaluate the
ELECTRICAL DEFECT in vehicles of the same make, model, and year as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. [For purposes of this interrogatory, the term “IDENTIFY” shall be
interpreted to mean identification of the name of the database, the location of
the database, and the custodians of such database, and the manner in which the
database may be searched.]
 
Response
 
AHM objects to
this interrogatory as overly broad, and as asking for information that is not
relevant to the subject matter of this action and not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not directed to any
claim, defense, and/or any other matter at issue in this litigation, rather it
is directed to the manner in which AHM stores information. As phrased, the
interrogatory is directed to discovery on discovery and the manner in which AHM
stores, collects, or reviews information, and is not directed to assisting in
evaluating this case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546; Lipton v. Superior
Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611; Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013.) AHM objects to this
interrogatory because it is directed to the cause, or related information, of
purported defects on the grounds that Plaintiffs are not required to prove the
cause of a purported defect; rather, Plaintiffs are only required to prove the
SUBJECT VEHICLE did not conform to its express warranty, and therefore the
information sought by this interrogatory is not relevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (See, Oregel v.
Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1102, n.8, Donlen v.
Ford Motor Co., (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 149-52 and CACI No. 3201.) In
addition, AHM objects to Plaintiffs’ definition of the term “ELECTRICAL DEFECT”
as vague, ambiguous, and overly broad as it includes at least fourteen vaguely
defined symptoms. Moreover, considering Plaintiffs’ definition of the term “ELECTRICAL
DEFECT,” the interrogatory contains subparts and is therefore compound,
conjunctive, and/or disjunctive in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.060(f). AHM objects to this interrogatory as calling for information that
is confidential, commercially sensitive, and/or proprietary. AHM objects to the
extent this interrogatory asks AHM to respond on behalf of any other entity.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
To
compel a further response to interrogatories, the movant must show that: (1)
the responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; (2) the responding party’s exercise of the option to produce
documents in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents was inadequate; and (3) the responding party’s
objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.300, subd. (a); see, e.g., Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 550 [defendant’s argument that plaintiff was required to establish
good cause or prove merits of underlying claim before propounding
interrogatories without merit].).
 
In
this case, Defendant’s responses to Plaintiffs’ interrogatories are evasive and
incomplete. Defendant’s initial responses were objections. Rather than
providing facts supporting each response, Defendant restates many of its
objections. After meeting and conferring, Defendant submitted incomplete
supplemental responses which omitted special interrogatories 7, 8, 19-23, 27,
and 28. Defendant then ignored Plaintiffs’ subsequent meet and confer efforts
and attempts to extend the deadline for filing this motion. 
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motions on the merits at this time. 
 
The
Court orders the parties to review the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order and to
meet and confer with the Order in mind. The parties must meet and confer
directly, not by email, to resolve as much as they can. Additionally, the
parties are ordered to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to
be set by the Court. The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in
dispute, followed by Defendant’s arguments, then Plaintiff’s arguments. 
 
ORDER
1.
The parties are ordered to review the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order and to
conduct a meaningful meet and confer with the Order in mind.
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the
hearing on this motion.
 
Moving
parties to give notice.