  Case Number:  22STCV30740    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARCUS WEBSTER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA., a public
  corporation; SASHA YOUNG, an individual; SCOTT KARAS, an individual; BRENDA
  QUIROGA, an individual; and DOES 1-50, inclusive.
                        Defendants. 


  Case No.:         22STCV30740
  Hearing Date:  8/8/24
  Trial Date:       9/10/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Regents
  of University of California Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary
  Adjudication Against Plaintiff Marcus Webster



 
Plaintiff Marcus Webster (“Webster”) brings this wrongful termination
action against Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“UC”);
Sasha Young (“Young”); Jasmine Briones (“Briones”); Scott Karas (“Karas”); and
Brenda Quiroga (“Quiroga”). Defendant UC now brings this Opposed Motion for
Summary Judgment and/or in the alternate, Summary Adjudication against all
seven claims on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state a prima facie claim
for each of his causes of action therein. Given Plaintiff rebuts
Defendant’s arguments and that Defendant ultimately fails to carry its burden
of showing that there is no triable issue of material fact as to the existence
of Plaintiff’s seven claims—the Court DENIES Defendant UC’s Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. 
 
Background
The following facts are taken from the operative
Second Amended Complaint. On January 17, 2022, Webster started in his role with
UC as a Support Services Assistant Manager. He alleges he was selected because
his background as an anesthesia technologist and firefighter paramedic,
reaching the rank of 2nd Lieutenant and serving as a truck
supervisor, made him well suited for the role. The Support Services Assistant
Manager position consisted of assigning surgery technicians and other staff to
operating rooms for surgeries. The position included overseeing the individuals
who cleaned the operating rooms in between surgeries and procedures. In total,
there would be about 90 employees working underneath the Support Services
Assistant Manager. 
Webster alleges that his supervisors, including
manager, Sasha Young (“Young”) and Young’s manager, Jasmine Briones (“Briones”)
refused to provide Webster with any training, leaving him to figure out the
complicated hospital systems on his own. Despite this, Webster claims he was
consistently told he was doing a good job. 
Almost immediately after starting his role at UCLA
Reagan, Webster started experiencing issues with subordinate employees. Just a
few weeks into his employment, Young told him that he was hired because he was
a man and could go into the men’s locker room and stop employees from hiding
while on the clock. 
Webster attempted to “corral” these problems by
following UCLA Reagan’s written disciplinary policy and writing these employees
up. But the write ups were of little consequence to these employees as
Webster’s managers and UCLA Reagan’s Human Resources department refused to take
any action against Webster’s disobedient subordinates. 
Young was almost entirely inaccessible and ignored
Webster’s attempts to report serious issues and Briones actively ensured that
any attempt Webster made was thwarted. Eventually, Briones took away Webster’s
ability to write up the employees he was charged with managing, removing his
access to crucial information, such as call out logs, and requiring him to go
through her administrative assistant if he wanted to write an employee up. 
One employee, Jeffrey Hernandez (“Hernandez”), kept
calling out of work. One day, Webster found Hernandez hiding in another area of
the hospital with another employee, sitting down and using their personal
phones while Hernandez was supposed to be working. Webster wrote Hernandez up.
In response to having been written up, Hernandez acted out by walked around the
operating room telling other employees, “Suck my dick.” 
When Webster escalated the situation to Young and
Briones, explaining how Hernandez not reporting to work meant that operating
rooms were not being properly cleaned, maintained, and turned over, which
created patient safety issues. Briones refused to allow Webster to write up
Hernandez, instead issuing a meaningless “Counseling Memo,” that did nothing to
change Hernandez’s behavior and was of little consequence to Hernandez. In
response to Webster telling him that he would be receiving a Counseling Memo,
Hernandez physically stood up to Webster in a threatening way and challenged
Webster, saying “what are you going to do about it.” Webster documented this in
the Counseling Memo. 
Several physicians performing operations out of UCLA
Reagan complained to Webster that they needed staff to be present during
surgeries, to change the rooms over and move them along, and to clean the rooms
better, among other things. Webster investigated why these things were not
being done and discovered that the assigned employees would hide in the locker
room upstairs from the operating rooms in the locker room to avoid working.
Webster instructed these hiding employees to get their assigned jobs done, but
those employees flagrantly ignored him or intentionally moved so slowly that
the work was not being completed as needed. 
Two Assistant Team Leads, Ryan Rao (“Rao”) and Jacob
Creer (“Creer”), would rarely come to work when scheduled—they would often show
up extremely late or for shifts when they were not scheduled. This resulted in
a lack of coverage for the operating rooms and lack of coverage for other
employees to take their mandatory meal periods and rest breaks. Webster
continuously raised this issue with Briones, explaining that it was not only
risking UCLA Reagan violating wage and hour laws by failing to provide employees
with proper meal periods and rest breaks, but that it was risking patient
safety as Rao and Creer were abandoning roles that were critical to maintenance
of the operating rooms. For example, in the beginning of April, Creer was
assigned to bring a cardiac patient to an operating room, but ignored his
assignment, leaving the physician who was supposed to operate on that patient
to search for the patient for at least 30 minutes which can be a matter of life
or death for a cardiac patient. 
As another example, an ostensibly subordinate
employee, Brenda Quiroga (“Quiroga”), attempted to undermine Webster’s
decisions, disrupt scheduling, and orchestrated a false campaign against
Webster for trying to hold employees accountable to do their jobs. Despite
Quiroga supposedly not having a managerial role, UCLA Reagan allowed Quiroga to
have a red badge, signifying that Quiroga was in management, as opposed to a
blue badge, which signified she was a nonmanagerial union employee. When
Webster denied certain employees the ability to leave their posts early, those
employees would go to Quiroga, who, using the authority of her red badge,
frequently allowed those employees—who were always her same race—to go home
early, leaving the operating rooms without the staffing necessary to ensure
safe operations. 
UC also allowed Quiroga to control who was hired and
fired within the department. Webster later found out that one of the employees
Quiroga hired was romantically involved with Quiroga, making Quiroga’s
participation in that employee’s hiring entirely against UC’s own policies. 
Soon after working with Quiroga, Webster learned that
Quiroga and her colleagues often targeted African American employees, taking
advantage of union protections to orchestrate incidents to get African American
employees terminated. Quiroga and her colleagues were openly racist—making it
clear that, if you were not Mexican and in the union, they would not work well
with you. They went so far as to refer to themselves as the “Mexican Mafia.” 
While working at UC, Webster experienced Quiroga’s
harassment and discrimination and watched her act out and rally to attack other
African American employees and work to get them fired. 
Webster made a more formal complaint to Briones in
March 2022 where Webster met with Briones in her office and explained in great
detail how the staff not doing their jobs and hiding in the locker rooms
compromised the surgeries that were happening at the hospital. He provided
numerous specific examples of the rooms not being cleaned properly, there not
being proper support staff for the physicians, and the rooms not being timely
turned over for the next surgery, causing potentially life-threatening delays,
among other serious issues. 
Webster also detailed Quiroga’s involvement and how
Quiroga was motivated by racially discriminatory intentions. He explained how
Quiroga and her cohort called themselves the “Mexican Mafia” and how that
cohort was targeting Webster and other African American employees. 
Briones responded by telling Webster that she did not
want “to deal with this,” explaining that she had dealt with “this problem”
multiple times over the past 10 years and told him that she would fire him if
he did not make the issues go away. She sternly told Webster to “learn to get
along with Brenda [Quiroga] or I’ll fire you.” Webster is unaware of any action
taken by Briones after his meeting with her with respect to any of the serious
and unlawful conduct that he complained of. 
A few days after making his protected disclosure to
Briones, Webster was warned by other employees that Quiroga was orchestrating a
campaign to pass out union cards and make false sexual harassment complaints
against Webster to get him fired. Quiroga was also accusing Webster of “union
busting” and rallied other employees to continue hiding from their work
assignments, while embarking on the campaign to get Webster fired under serious
false pretenses. 
Webster was so stressed about the situation that he
broke down in tears before Briones, explaining that he depended on his job, but
was being left with no options to do that job since the disciplinary action he
could enforce was meaningless. 
Briones simply told Webster meaningless things like,
“don’t back off of them” and “stay consistent,” and confirmed that she had not
heard anything about the alleged sexual harassment.
Briones supported Quiroga and her race-based
discriminatory conduct targeting African American employees. For example, upon
hiring a new African American employee named Montiel Poteat (“Poteat”), who was
to work under Webster, Briones instructed Webster and others not to train
Poteat. At first Webster did not understand why she would give him such an
instruction, but it soon became clear that Briones was setting Poteat up to
fail and, Webster is informed and believes that Briones used Poteat’s alleged inability
to do a job that he was never trained for as an excuse to terminate his
employment. Briones fired Poteat just a few weeks after he was hired. 
Despite all of the misconduct by various employees,
the only two employees who Webster witnessed Briones terminate were African
American—Poteat and Webster himself.
Webster emailed Scott Karas (“Karas”) in the UCLA
Reagan Human Resources Department, detailing the situation. Webster expressed
his concerns about the organized campaign against him and the harassment he was
experiencing that he was unable to curtail, and that management was
enabling.  Once again, Webster’s
whistleblowing on serious patient safety and race-based discrimination issues
went unaddressed. 
Soon after Webster submitted his complaint to Karas,
approximately 40 complaints were filed against Webster by his subordinate
employees. Webster is informed and believes that these complaints were
orchestrated by Quiroga. 
Contrary to his assurances from management and Human
Resources, Webster was immediately put on investigatory leave. 
On June 15, 2022, approximately one
month after being placed on investigatory leave, Webster was terminated under
the pretext the employment was “not working out” and that he “lacked management
expertise in a union setting.” 
 
Plaintiff Luke thereafter obtained
a Right-to-Sue letter from the Department of Fair Employment and Housing and
brought this action on September 20, 2022. Plaintiff then filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) on December 1,
2022 and the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on June 22, 2023, which is now the
operative Complaint. Plaintiff alleges the following seven causes of action:
1) discrimination in violation of FEHA;
(2) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) harassment in violation of FEHA; (4)
failure to take steps to prevent discrimination and harassment in violation of
FEHA; (5) retaliation under California Health and Safety Code § 1278.5; (6)
declaratory relief; and (7) retaliation under labor code § 1102.5. 
 
Defendant UC now brings the instant
and opposed Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication Against
Plaintiff Marcus Webster for all seven causes of action. Defendant filed the
instant motion on May 22, 2024, Plaintiff opposed on July 25, 2024, and
Defendant replied on August 2, 2024.
 
Evidentiary
Matters
 
Court’s may take judicial notice of
documents pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d). Similarly, “[c]ourts can take
judicial notice of the existence, content and authenticity of public records
and other specified documents, but do not take judicial notice of the truth of
the factual matters asserted in those documents.’  [Citation.]”  (Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)
 
Defendant’s Evidence
 
Evidence
Defendant UC submits a compendium
of evidence of Exhibits 1-36 which Plaintiff does not object to. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
Defendant submits a Request for
Judicial Notice of Exhibits A-B containing copies of (A) The University of
California’s Whistleblower Protection Policy; and (B) a “Register of Action”
for this matter. Plaintiff makes no objection.
The Court judicially notices
Exhibits A-B. 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Evidence
Webster submits his own compendium
of evidence containing Exhibits (91)-(169) therein. Defendant makes objections
(1-14) which the court makes the following rulings on:
 
Sustained: 7
Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff also submits his own
Request for Judicial Notice for Exhibits (A)-(B) which consist of (A) a copy of
The University of California’s Whistleblower Protection Policy; and (B) the
University of California’s Whistleblower Policy. Defendant does not object. 
The Court hereby judicially notices
Plaintiff’s Exhibits (A)-(B). 
 
Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
First Cause of Action, Violation of FEHA – Discrimination
Based on Race: DENIED.
Legal Standard: “Although
‘[t]he specific elements of a prima facie case may vary depending on the
particular facts,’ the plaintiff in a failure-to-hire case ‘[g]enerally . . .
must provide evidence that (1) he [or she] was a member of a protected class,
(2) he [or she] was performing his job satisfactorily. . . , (3) he [or she]
suffered an adverse employment action, such as . . . denial of an available
job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive,’ such as
that the position remained open and the employer continued to solicit
applications for it or he was replaced by a person outside the protected class
similarly situated non-protected employees were treated more fairly.” (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
Analysis: Here, Defendant
argues Plaintiff can’t establish a valid claim for race discrimination because
although Plaintiff was (1) a member of a protected class as an African
American, Plaintiff cannot establish he was performing his job satisfactorily
or that there was a causal connection between his race and any adverse
employment action. (Mot., pp. 11-12.) Defendant argues that the University
received three whistleblower complaints about Plaintiff’s conduct and numerous
employees complained that Plaintiff was unapproachable, intimidating,
confrontational, and micromanaged or harassed them. (Mot., p.. 12, Sep. State.
¶¶ 1-16.) Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot establish a causal connection
between his race and his termination because Plaintiff admitted he never heard
anybody in management or HR make comments that he perceived to be negative
about African Americans. (Sep. State., ¶¶ 18, 20.) Additionally, Briones
interviewed Plaintiff and knew he was African American and yet still hired him.
(Mot., p. 12.) Furthermore, although Plaintiff claims Montiel Poteat was
another African American who was similarly terminated, Plaintiff himself was
critical of Poteat’s performance and admitted he was unqualified for the
position. (Id.) 
In Opposition, Plaintiff responds
that evidence exists to demonstrate Plaintiff was qualified and competently
performed his job. (Opp., p. 13.) For example, Plaintiff was never disciplined,
nor reprimanded. (AMF 66, Opp., p. 13.) During his employment, Webster was told
he was doing a great job. (AMF 15-16.) Also, staff such as Herrera, reported to
Briones that Webster was never disrespectful or unprofessional and that he was
fair. (AMF 84-86.) Herrera also reported to Briones that staff were engaging in
a “retaliation campaign against Webster.” (Id.) UC confirmed that other
complaints against Webster, such as those for sexual harassment and “union
busting” were unsubstantiated. (AMF 67-68.) Thus, UC has failed to meet its
burden. As to causal connection, pretext may be found where an employer has given
baseless, contradictory, implausible, inconsistent, or uninformed
justifications for its action. (Sandlell v. Taylor-Listug Inc.
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 314.) Briones never witnessed Webster being
intimidating. (AMF 70-73.) Herrera further reported to Briones that Webster was
never disrespectful or unprofessional in any way. (Id.)
 
The Court finds that there exists a
triable issue of material fact as to elements (2) and (4). It undisputed that
Plaintiff was African American and thus, a member of a protected class and (3)
suffered an adverse employment action by being terminated. However, elements
(1) and (4) are disputed based on the contradictory testimony provided by each
party. Such contradictory testimony is subject to the determination of a jury
to be the factfinder. The Court cannot fact find in the face of contradictory
facts because it is the role of the jury to fact find in the following
circumstances. Thus, the Court cannot as a matter of law grant summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action. 
 
Second Cause of Action, Violation of FEHA – Retaliation
Based on Race: DENIED.
Legal Standard: “[I]n order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action. Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. If the employer produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action,
the presumption of retaliation drops out of the picture, and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042, cleaned up.)
Analysis: Defendant argues
Plaintiff cannot demonstrate a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA.
(Mot., p. 14.) Moreover, Defendant argues a change in job responsibilities
without loss of pay does not constitute an adverse employment action. (Thomas
v. Dept. of Corrections (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 507, 511, Mot., p. 15. But
see Thomas, 77 Cal.App.4th at p. 511: “[M]ost circuits require that an
action be more disruptive than a mere inconvenience or an alteration of job
responsibilities. A materially adverse change might be indicated by a
termination of employment, a demotion evidenced by a decrease in wage or
salary, a less distinguished title, a material loss of benefits, significantly
diminished material responsibilities, or other indices that might be unique to a
particular situation.” (cleaned up).) Plaintiff’s paid investigatory suspension
does not qualify as an adverse employment action. (Mot,, p. 15.) Adverse
employment action includes termination, cuts in pay or benefits, and changes
that affect an employee’s future career prospects. (Id.) As to
Plaintiff’s termination, Plaintiff cannot establish a causal link between his
alleged complaints of discrimination and harassment and any adverse employment
action because Plaintiff claims he first complained about discrimination based
on his race in February of 2022. (Id.) However, Plaintiff was not
suspended and terminated until May and June 2022, respectively. (Id.)
Thus, Defendant contends this is too long to establish a causal connection
between the two based on Hughes v. Derwinksi (7th Cir. 1992)
967 F.2d. 1168, 1174 [four months too long]. 
Plaintiff argues that triable
issues of fact exist as to both elements (2) and (3) and that it is undisputed
that Plaintiff established element (1) because he engaged in the protected
activity of reporting discrimination based on his race. (Opp., p. 17.) Webster
reported race-based bullying, discrimination, and harassment to Briones and
Karas during his employment, including in writing. (AMF 27-28, 57-59.) First,
the acts of being stripped of his authority to discipline employees (AMF 66)
and manage his staff impaired Webster’s ability to successfully perform his
job. (Opp., p. 18.) Second, Briones forced Webster to take an involuntary leave
which constitutes an adverse employment action because Webster did not request
the leave, nor was the leave intended as a reward or accommodation because its
purpose was to investigate alleged wrongdoing on behalf of Webster. (Mot., p. 18.)
Finally, Plaintiff was terminated in June 2022. (Id.) These actions show
a series of retaliatory acts that alone and in their totality constitute
adverse employment action. (Id.) Webster’s termination was within less
than two months of him formally reporting in-writing and verbally the
race-based discrimination, bullying, and harassment because on April 8 and
April 20, Webster reported to Karas that he was being bullied, harassed, and
experiencing a hostile work environment. (AMF 57-59.) Two months between
Webster’s protected activity and termination is undoubtedly sufficient to
establish a causal connection, if credited by the trier of fact. (Opp. p. 19.)
According to the Ninth Circuit, “[W]hen adverse employment decisions are taken
within a reasonable period of time after complaints of discrimination have been
made, retaliatory intent may be inferred.” (Passantino v. Johnson &
Johnson Consumer Prods., Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 212 F.3d 493, 507.)
Additionally, Plaintiff rebuts Defendant’s arguments in reliance on the Seventh
Circuit appellate court because such law is non-binding and not authoritative
in California or the Ninth Circuit.
Here, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that there exists a triable issue of material fact as to elements
(2)-(3). It is undisputed that Plaintiff engaged in (1) a protected activity by
reporting alleged race-based discrimination and harassment. As to the element
of (2) adverse employment action, Plaintiff rebuts Defendant’s arguments and
provides contradictory facts, establishing a jury could make a finding for an
adverse employment action because it is disputed as to what degree Plaintiff’s
ability to manage and discipline his employees was inhibited by Defendant.
Moreover, it is undisputed that Plaintiff was put on an involuntary leave,
followed by his termination in June of 2022. Plaintiff is correct that all
those actions can constitute adverse employment actions either alone or in
totality. As to the issue of (3) causal connection, Plaintiff is also correct
that the Seventh Circuit is not binding authority on this Court. Also, there
exists a factual dispute as to whether (a) adverse employment action was taken
within two (2) or (4) four months of Plaintiff engaging in a protected activity.
Lastly, it is disputed that such adverse action can presuppose causation by
occurring within a reasonable time frame of Webster’s reports of
discrimination/ harassment. Causal connection is not limited to four months and
there are facts to find such events occurred within less than four months. As
such, the Court must deny Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
cause of action for Retaliation in violation of FEHA. 
 
Third Cause of Action, Violation of FEHA – Harassment
Based on Race: DENIED.
Legal Standard: Government
Code section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) prohibits harassment based on a
protected characteristic, such as race. 
“California courts have applied the federal threshold standard to claims
of sexual harassment and held that FEHA is violated when the
harassment was ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter
the conditions of the victim’s employment.’” 
(Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 464-65; Kelly-Zurian
v. Wohl Shoe Co., Inc. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397, 409 [“When the workplace
is permeated with discriminatory intimidation, ridicule and insult that is
‘sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the victim’s
employment and create an abusive working environment,’ the law is
violated”].)  A single incident of
harassment may be enough to constitute a hostile work environment if it
“unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work performance or created an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.”  (Gov. Code, §
12923, subd. (b).)  The court shall use
the totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile
work environment.  (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).) Thus, a plaintiff must
establish that (1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected
to unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on his protected status;
(4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work performance by creating
an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) Defendant is
liable for the harassment. (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)
Analysis: Defendant argues
Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of harassment based on race
because Webster fails to identify the underlying harassing conduct and (1) does
not demonstrate facts establishing it was related to race; and (2) does not
establish such conduct was sufficiently severe or pervasive. (Mot., pp. 16-17.)
Plaintiff confirmed in deposition that no one in management made any negative
comments or engaged in any negative conduct based on his race (Sep. State. ¶¶
121-130.) Moreover, Plaintiff confirmed he does not believe the harassing
conduct was based on his race, making this claim objectively baseless. (Sep.
State., ¶¶ 121-122.) Although Plaintiff claims Geoffrey Fernandez made one
comment about his race, one comment over a five-month period is too sporadic to
constitute a “concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or
generalized nature.” (Sep. State., ¶¶ 123, 130; See Etter v. Veriflo Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that UC does not dispute that (1) Webster is a member of a protected class (AMF
133). Instead, UC argues that Webster has no evidence as to elements (2)-(4),
that Webster was subjected to unwelcome harassment related to his race, and
that it created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment. (Opp.,
p. 20.) Plaintiff argues evidence exists in support of these elements. First,
evidence demonstrates that Plaintiff was subject to race-based harassment
because there is evidence that staff openly used racial epithets, such as
“porch monkey” to describe Black staff (AMF 27) and that in response to
corrective coaching, employee Fernandez told Webster to “suck my dick” and
“we’re all Mexican . . . I’m not working for a Black boss.” (AMF 27.) Moreover,
evidence demonstrates that UC ratified and approved such race-based harassment
because an employer is strictly liable for workplace harassment or hostile work
environment created by coworkers if it knows of the harassment and fails to
stop it. (Opp., p. 21; Govt C. § 12940(j)(1). 
Here, the Court agrees that by
providing the foregoing evidence, Plaintiff has provided evidence that a trier
of fact could reasonably find for harassment in violation of FEHA. Plaintiff
has provided evidence demonstrating that there was more than one comment made
based on his race and that it was more than one single and isolated instance.
Nevertheless, courts have found that a single incident may still be sufficient
if severe and pervasive enough to interfere with a plaintiff’s work performance
by creating a hostile or offensive work environment. (Bailey v. San
Francisco District Attorney’s Office (July 29, 2024) 2024 WL 3561569, *7-8.)
Similarly, Plaintiff has also successfully countered Defendant’s argument that it
cannot be liable for the harassment because Fernandez was not a supervisor. A defendant
can be found liable for coworkers’ harassment when an employer knows of
harassment and fails to stop it. Thus, there exist triable issues of material
fact as to Plaintiff’s cause of action for harassment in violation of FEHA.
Accordingly, the Court must deny Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as
to the fourth cause of action and such facts should be properly determined by a
jury, as fact finders. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action, Violation of FEHA – Failure to
Take Steps to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment: DENIED.
Legal Standard: “[C]ourts have required a finding of actual discrimination or harassment under FEHA before a plaintiff may prevail under section 12940, subdivision (k).” (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.) “Once an employer is informed of the sexual harassment, the employer must take adequate remedial measures. The measures need to include immediate corrective action that is reasonably calculated to (1) end the current harassment
and (2) to deter future harassment. [Citation.] The employer’s obligation to take prompt corrective action requires (1) that temporary steps be taken to deal with the situation while the employer determines whether the complaint is justified and (2) that permanent remedial steps be implemented by the employer to prevent future harassment . . . .” (M.F. v. Pacific Pearl Hotel Management LLC (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 693, 701.)
Analysis: Defendant argues
that Plaintiff cannot establish a valid claim for failure to prevent
discrimination or harassment because Plaintiff has failed to establish his
claims for discrimination and harassment as a prerequisite. (Mot., p. 17.) A
Plaintiff must establish his claims for discrimination and harassment in order
to prevail on his claims for failure to prevent such discrimination and
harassment. (Sep. State., 131; Trujillo v. North Co. Transit Dist.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 286.) 
Here, the Court finds that based on
the foregoing analyses for discrimination and harassment, Defendant’s sole
argument is insufficient to demonstrate that a failure to prevent cannot be
found as a matter of law. Defendant does not attempt to make any further
argument beyond contending that discrimination and harassment cannot be
demonstrated by Plaintiff’s arguments and evidence. Given the Court has found a
jury could reasonably find in favor of Plaintiff, Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication as to this fourth cause of action must be denied. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action, Retaliation – Under Health and
Safety Code § 1278.5: DENIED.
Legal Standard: Health & Safety (H&S) section
1278.5 declares a policy of encouraging workers in a health care
facility, including members of a hospital's medical staff, to report unsafe
patient care. The statute implements this policy by forbidding a health care
facility to retaliate
or discriminate “in any manner” against such a worker “because” he or she
engaged in such whistleblower action. (§ 1278.5, subd. (b).) It entitles the worker to prove a statutory
violation, and to obtain appropriate relief, in a civil suit before a judicial
fact finder. (Fahlen
v. Sutter Cent. Valley Hosps. (2014) 58 Cal.4th 655, 675–76.) Discriminatory treatment of a medical
staff member includes any unfavorable change in the member's staff privileges.
(Id., subd. (d)(2).) If such a discriminatory act,
known to hospital officials, occurs within 120 days after the medical staff
member has reported a grievance or complaint related to patient health, care,
or safety, there is a “rebuttable presumption” that the act was done in retaliation for
the complaint.( Fahlen v. Sutter Cent. Valley Hosps., supra,
58 Cal.4th at pp. 660–61.)
Analysis: Here, Defendant
contends that Plaintiff cannot establish a valid claim for retaliation under H&S
code § 1278.5 because under McDonnell Douglas Corp., supra, 411 US at pp.
802-805, the same burden-shifting analysis applies as does for retaliation for
reporting race discrimination. (Mot., p. 17.) Moreover, Plaintiff must
demonstrate that he presented a grievance, complaint, or report to the hospital
or medical staff regarding the quality of patient care. (Alborzi v.
University of Southern California (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 155, 179.) Given
Plaintiff’s concerns were related to staff misconduct and his duties as
supervisor, not the quality of patient care, Plaintiff did not engage in a
protected activity in this instance. (Sep State., 132-133; SAC ¶¶ 21-22, 24,
26, 28, 33-34, 46.) Moreover, Plaintiff cannot establish a causal link between
his alleged complaints about staff misconduct and any action by UC given the
timeframe is too long to constitute a causal connection, as previously argued.
(Mot., p. 18.) Defendant contends timing alone is insufficient as a matter of
law to establish pretext and that Siobhan Johnson reported the exact same
issues to Briones and she was not terminated or disciplined for raising such
concerns. (Sep State., ¶¶135, 137; Mot., p. 18.) Thus, the claim fails. 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant again erroneously applies inapposite 7th Circuit authority and
ignores a statutory presumption under 1287.5(d)(1) which provides “a rebuttable
presumption that discriminatory action was taken by a health facility, or by
the entity that owns or operates that health facility” if responsible staff had
knowledge of the employee’s complaint “and the discriminatory action occurs
within 120 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint by the employee.” (Scheer v. Regents of the Univ.
of California (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 904, 916, reh'g denied (Apr. 13, 2022), reh'g denied (Apr. 18, 2022), review denied (July 13, 2022).) Also, under
1287.5, “[d]iscriminatory action includes discharge of the employee.” (Id.)  Defendant UC fails to rebut the presumption
that it took discriminatory action within 120 days of Webster’s complaints
regarding numerous concerns of unsafe patient care and safety. Between March 7
and April 7, 2022, Webster reported issues directly affecting patient care and
safety. (AMF 79.) In less than 90 days, on May 12, 2022, UC forced Webster to
take leave (AMF 75) and before doing so, stripped him off key job
responsibilities (AMF 83.) (Opp., p. 23.) Webster made numerous complaints
regarding surgical scopes being missing or not properly charged for doctor use
between March 11 and April 7, 2022, as well as computers nor recording patient
vital signs and improper storage of sterile water and saline solution used
during surgeries. (AMF 30-43.) Webster stated, “[w]e need to ensure all rooms
are being stocked to department standards, for a safe patient experience.” (AMF
42.) Finally, Briones admitted that Webster’s reported concerns involved critical
patient care/safety issues. (AMF 44-48; Opp., p. 23.)
Here, the Court again finds that
the Seventh Circuit law is inapplicable and not binding in California.
Moreover, Plaintiff has provided sufficient facts and evidence for a factfinder
to find Plaintiff made reports regarding the quality and standard of patient
care. Thus, the Court must deny Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Retaliation under Health & Safety Code §
1278.5. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action, Declaratory Relief: DENIED.
Legal Standard: “[P]roof
that an adverse employment decision was substantially motivated by
discrimination may warrant a judicial declaration of employer wrongdoing.” (Harris
v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 234.) 
Analysis: Defendant contends
that Plaintiff’s declaratory relief cause of action fails with the underlying
claims. (Mot., p. 18.) Defendant further states that it is undisputed that UC
(1) has policies prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and retaliation and
(2) provides multiple mechanisms for employees to make complaints of
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. (SAC, ¶ 94, Sep. State. 171-172; Ochs
v. PacifiCare of California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.) 
Plaintiff argues on opposition that
UC cites no authority that simply having policies voids a declaratory relief
claim and that the evidence set forth demonstrates UC’s practice of
discriminating against Black employees. (Opp., p. 24.) Thus, relief is
necessary to end such a practice and there is sufficient evidence for a jury to
determine that UC discriminated and retaliated against Webster based on race
and failed to stop it thereafter. (Opp., p. 24.) Accordingly, Plaintiff
concludes triable issues of fact as to the declaratory relief cause of action
exist. 
The Court finds that Defendant’s
argument is contradicted by the Court’s finding that a jury could find
Plaintiff has set forth facts sufficient to state his underlying claims.
Defendant’s contention that it has policies prohibiting discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation does not preclude a cause of action for declaratory
relief. Thus, a triable issue of material fact exists as to this sixth cause of
action because Plaintiff has presented evidence to find for declaratory relief.
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action, Retaliation– Under Labor Code §
1102.5: DENIED.
Legal Standard: In Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, our Supreme
Court addressed whether the evidentiary standard set forth in Labor Code section
1102.6 replaced McDonnell
Douglas as the
relevant evidentiary standard for retaliation claims brought pursuant
to Labor
Code section 1102.5. Lawson held that Labor Code section 1102.6, adopted in
2003, provides the governing framework for analyzing whistleblower retaliation
claims brought under Labor
Code section 1102.5. (Id. at p. 712.) It “places the burden on the plaintiff
to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation for
an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action. The
plaintiff need not satisfy McDonnell Douglas in
order to discharge this burden. Once the plaintiff has made the required showing, the burden shifts to the employer to
demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action
in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not
engaged in protected activity.” (Scheer, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 914, citing Lawson.)
“[W]here statutes, such as Government
Code section 12653 and Labor Code sections 1102.5 and 1105, or their
equivalents, create a right that did not previously exist at common law, and
also provide a comprehensive system of administrative enforcement (there, through
UC's detailed official grievance procedures), we must infer a requirement that
the employee seek administrative relief before filing suit.” (Fahlen v. Sutter Cent. Valley Hosps. (2014) 58 Cal.4th
655, 671.)
Analysis: Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim fails as a matter
of law because he failed to exhaust the University’s internal administrative
remedies before suing. Moreover, UC is a body with quasi-judicial powers under
the California Constitution. (Campbell v. Regents of University of
California (2005) 35 Cal.4th 311; Cal. Const. art IX, § 9, subd (a).)
Defendant concludes that the California Supreme Court has made it clear that
plaintiffs must exhaust University internal administrative remedies before
filing suit in civil court. (Westlake Community Hospital v. Superior Court
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 465, 469.) 
Plaintiff argues that he did exhaust
UC’s administrative remedies because UC’s internal policies required UC to take
specific steps in response to Webster’s complaints with which UC failed to adhere
to. (Mot., p. 25.) Webster followed UC’s Whistleblower Policy by complaining to
management—Briones and Karas. (AMF 17-18, 26-28, 30-43, 57-59, 140-143.) Once
Webster fulfilled this duty, Briones and Karas violated it by not escalating
Webster’s complaints. (Opp., p. 25.) Thus, Webster claims he attempted to
comply with UC’s Whistleblower Retaliation Policy when he attempted to meet
with Briones, Karas, and Ron Perez, but they refused to meet with him, and he
thereafter filed and served a verified complaint of employment discrimination.
(AMF 138-139.) 
In Reply, UC claims that it
established an internal grievance policy whereby Plaintiff was required to
submit a sworn statement and file a whistleblower retaliation complaint with
the University within 12 months of the recent retaliation he complained about.
(RJ, Ex. A, UC Whistleblower Protection Policy, pp. 1, 5.) Plaintiff confirmed
under oath he did not submit a whistleblower retaliation complaint or a sworn
statement regarding the retaliation within 12 months of his termination. (Ex.
A, Pl’s Depo, 403:20-404:2, 489:21-490:7.) Thus, Defendant concludes it remains
undisputed that Plaintiff has not filed a mandamus action to set aside internal
findings against him before filing this lawsuit. (SS 177.) (Reply, pp. 9-10.)
Here, the Court finds that it is
unclear as to whether or not Plaintiff complied with his duties to exhaust
administrative remedies because even though it is undisputed that Plaintiff did
not file submit a sworn statement or submit a whistleblower retaliation
complaint, it is not clear as to why. It is unclear whether or not Defendant
gave Plaintiff the opportunity to do so or whether Defendant was obliged under
their own internal policy to take action or steps allowing Plaintiff the
opportunity to comply with the exhaustion of administrative remedies. (AMF 140-143.)
Given Plaintiff and Defendant offer contradicting evidence, the Court finds
there is a dispute as to a material fact on this issue. Thus, the Court denies
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the seventh cause of action.
Conclusion
Defendant Regents of the University
of California’s Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication is
DENIED because the Defendant fails to carry its burden of showing that there is
no triable issue of material fact establishing the existence of a prima facie
cause of action for each of Plaintiff’s seven causes of action. Defendant’s
arguments are ultimately rebutted by Plaintiff’s refutations in Opposition and
Defendant’s arguments on Reply fail to resolve such rebuttal. Thus, Defendant
does not meet its burden and the Motion for Summary Judgment and Summary
Adjudication must be denied, as a matter of law, as to each of the seven causes
of action.