 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRIEL RUEDA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO, et al.,
                        Defendants. 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   8/8/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s
  Motion for Trial Preference
 



 
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda sues
Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao, Frederick Roach, Keith M. Davidson, Paramount
Global (Paramount; formerly CBS Corporation), and Showtime Networks, Inc.
(Showtime) (with Paramount, the CBS Defendants) on the grounds that Rueda introduced
Leslie Moonves, the president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to
Defendant Roach, the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao, thereby allowing
Moonves to broker the “Fight of the Century” between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd
Mayweather Jr., which earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and Showtime Networks more
than $430 million. Rueda alleges that he has yet to be paid his agreed upon
finder’s fee of 2% of the gross proceeds of the fight for that introduction and
that when he approached Defendants for payment, they directly or indirectly
sought to intimate him by terrorizing him, seeking to have him fired from his
job, seeking to destroy his acting career and even threatening and causing
physical harm to him and his property.  
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC) which alleges causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Oral Contract, (2) Common Count for Labor, Work, and Services, (3)
Quantum Meruit, (4) Fraud in the Inducement, (5) Fraudulent Misrepresentation,
and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion for trial preference. On May 24, 2024, the court granted the
parties’ stipulation to continue trial to November 18, 2024, and the motion for
trial preference became moot.
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
second amended notice of motion and motion for trial preference requesting that
the Court maintain the currently scheduled trial on November 18, 2024 and not entertain
any further efforts by any party to continue the trial date any further.
Defendant filed an opposition on July 26, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on
August 1, 2024.
After review, and for the following
reasons, the Court DENIES the motion without prejudice.
 
Motion
for Trial Preference
 
Legal Standard
 
Discretion for Substantial Medical Doubt of Survival 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36(d) states “[i]n its
discretion, the court may also grant a motion for preference that is
accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation that concludes that
one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition raising substantial
medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.”  (CCP § 36(d).) 
 
            Discretion for Interest of Justice 
 Code of Civil Procedure
section 36(e) states that, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.”  (CCP § 36(e).) 
“[T]he discretion to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.”  (Salas v. Sears, Roebuck &
Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344.) 
Lay testimony regarding the health of another is admissible
provided they have had opportunity to observe the other. (See People v.
McAlpin (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1289, 1307.)
“Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the
court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date and
there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion
for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney,
or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 36(f).) 
 
Analysis
Plaintiff seeks a trial preference under Code of
Civil Procedure sections 36(d) and 36(e), arguing in the original motion that (1)
Rueda suffers from serious, debilitating medical conditions, including Reactive
Arthritis (or Reiter’s Syndrome), Crohn’s diseases, and Colitis, whose symptoms
are significantly exacerbated by the stress of this litigation; and (2) because
the interests of justice are served by granting trial preference. In the
original motion, Plaintiff submits declarations by his doctors, one of which
who attests that he is at high risk of infection, worsening disease and
complications, including colonic rupture, sepsis, and death. (Robin M.D.,
Decl., ¶ 5.) In the current motion he asks
that the court maintain the current trial date which was stipulated to by the
parties and not entertain any further continuances of trial. 
            In their
Joint Opposition, Defendants argue that the motion is premature and addresses a
matter not in dispute, essentially seeking an advisory opinion no matter what
the facts in the future may be. Second, Defendants argue that Rueda has
submitted no evidence in support of his contention that he qualifies for preference
under section 36(d). And third, Defendants argue that he provides no evidence
in support of his argument for discretionary relief under section 36(e).
            In Reply,
Rueda submits his reply brief and the declarations of one of his attorneys,
Amman Khan, under seal.
            The Court concludes
that even if it has discretion under Code of Civil Procedure sections 36 (d) or
(e), it is premature to rule on this motion. The current trial date has been
set by stipulation and order and Plaintiff is not seeking to advance the trial.
No party has actually sought a trial continuance beyond that date at this time,
and thus the Court does not know the basis and cannot rule on any such request,
including whether there is good cause.
            Having said
this, the facts remain that this case was filed on February 24, 2016 and thus
is already eight and a half years old. The matter has been up to the Court of
Appeal twice from the rulings on two SLAPP motions, staying discovery and the
five-year rule. The trial has already been continued once since it was remanded,
by stipulation. 
The applicable rules recite that trial
dates, once set, are firm, and all parties and their counsel must regard the
date set for trial as certain. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) Although
continuances of trial are disfavored, “each request must be considered on its
own merits,” and “the court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause.” (Id. at rule 3.1332(c).) The Court takes these requirements
seriously, as well as the circumstances spelled out in that subsection that may
constitute good cause and those spelled out in subsection (d) which constitute
other factors to be considered.  The Court
largely granted Defendants’ request for a much longer period of time for
discovery than the Plaintiff wanted after the last remittitur from the Court of
Appeal, and warned the parties at that time, and since, that they needed to do
whatever they deemed necessary to get the discovery done in time for trial. The
Court has held multiple Informal Discovery Conferences to assist the parties over
the past year and will not lightly entertain a request for additional time to
take discovery. 
In sum, the parties should consider
the trial date firm and not anticipate any additional continuances.
Nonetheless, the Court agrees with Defendants that it is speculative and improper
to cut off its ability to rule on a request that has not been made. Accordingly,
the Court will deny the motion as framed.
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion for a trial
preference is DENIED without prejudice.
The Court also recommends a stipulation that the
motion to seal the reply brief can be advanced to today’s hearing and GRANTED.