  Case Number:  20BBCV00921    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



ANDREW DERKRIKORIAN, an
  individual,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
CHAPEL
  OF THE HILLS ASSEMBLY OF GOD OF SUNLAND CALIFORNIA, PACIFIC CLINICS HEAD
  START, a California corporation and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)
)




Case No.: 20BBCV00921
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date:   February
  23, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This is a wrongful eviction action.  Plaintiff
Andrew DerKrikorian (DerKrikorian) alleges that he entered into a lease with Defendant Chapel of the Hills Assembly of God Sunland
California (Chapel) for a portion of the premises at 11120 Oro Vista Avenue,
Sunland, CA 91040. Plaintiff alleges that Chapel substantially interfered
with his enjoyment of the lease; and that he found a sub-lessor, Pacific
Clinics Head Start (Pacific) to take over the remainder of the lease. Plaintiff
apparently negotiated a provision that Pacific would pay some amount of rent over
the amount Plaintiff was charged by Chapel  as compensation for his loss of use of the premises.
In negotiating the sublease, Plaintiff obtained an initial deposit from Pacific.
Upon hearing of the deal, Chapel allegedly tried to negotiate with Pacific and
cut Plaintiff out of the sublease. 
          DerKrikorian filed his complaint on December 16, 2020. DerKrikorian
then filed a first amended complaint on September 27, 2022. The first amended
complaint was the first time Pacific Clinic was named as a defendant. Defendant
Pacific filed an answer to the first amended complaint on November 16, 2022. Pacific
filed a cross-complaint on August 29, 2023, which was subsequently voluntarily dismissed
without prejudice on September 27, 2023. Pacific now seeks leave to file this
new cross-complaint. 
          Pacific now seeks to assert cross-claims against DerKrikorian
for return of the initial deposit that it paid to him for the sublease, as
Pacific Clinics withdrew its offer, and the agreement was never
consummated.  
          This motion for leave to file a cross-complaint was filed January
25, 2024. No opposition was filed.  
The
Court concludes that the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory, and it is not
being sought in bad faith.  Therefore, the motion is granted. 
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
In
seeking leave to file a cross-complaint, Pacific cites statutes governing both
compulsory and permissive cross-complaints. Because the pleading Pacific
Clinics seeks to file alleges claims against DerKrikorian, it is compulsory. Compulsory
cross-complaints are governed by Code Civ. Proc. §426.10, et seq. 
Code
Civ. Proc. §426.10(c) defines “related cause of action” as a “cause of action
which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions
or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” 
 Failure
to raise “related causes of action” by way of cross-complaint at the time of
answering waives them. (Code Civ. Proc. §426.30(a). )
A
party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to this requirement may
apply for leave to file a cross-complaint, which the court shall grant, upon
such terms as may be just, if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in
good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §426.50.)
The
compulsory cross-complaint statute is designed to prevent piecemeal litigation
and avoid a multiplicity of actions. The statute is to be liberally construed
to advance this purpose. (Heshejin v. Rostami (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 984,
993.) “Because of the liberal construction given to the statute to accomplish
its purpose of avoiding a multiplicity of actions, ‘transaction’ is construed
broadly; it is ‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence ... but
may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated
[citations].’ (Citation.)” (Id. at 993-994.)  
California’s
“principle of liberality” concerning pleadings requires that even a severely
belated cross-complaint be permitted, absent “a strong showing of bad faith.” (Foot's
Transfer & Storage Co., Ltd v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d
897, 903-904.)
 
          III.     ANALYSIS
          a. The Proposed Pleading is a Compulsory Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff
DerKrikorian sued Defendant Chapel of the Hills Assembly of God Sunland
California (Chapel) for wrongful eviction from the premises located at 11120
Oro Vista Avenue, Sunland, CA 91040. As it pertains to Pacific, the evidence
seems to be that Pacific entered into a sublease agreement on or about November
21, 2019 to sub-lease a portion of the premises with Plaintiff DerKrikorian. On
that day, Pacific put down an initial deposit of $8,650.00 with Plaintiff.
After this agreement was signed, there was a meeting with all three parties.  Pacific allegedly learned that its potential use
of the premises was not what Plaintiff represented. Consequently, Pacific
withdrew its offer to sublease the premises on or about January 29, 2020.  The agreement was never consummated.
Pacific
seeks leave to assert claims to recover its initial lease deposit of $8,650.00 from
Plaintiff DerKrikorian.  It alleges that
it deposited this money with Plaintiff in expectation of taking over the lease,
which it ultimately did not do. Pacific alleges there have been attempts to
recover the money, to no avail. 
          Specifically, the proposed cross-complaint provides:
¶4       On or about November 21, 2019, Pacific Clinics signed a
Sublease Agreement to rent the premises from Plaintiff for the duration of
Plaintiff’s lease. Plaintiff did not sign this agreement.          
¶6, 7   Once this agreement was signed, a meeting was held between Pacific
and Chapel where Pacific learned it would not have exclusive use of the
property as a daycare/preschool, it had to stow children’s toys over the
weekend so Chapel could also use the space and that Chapel might use the
furniture left out by Pacific in conducting its church business.
¶7       Pacific was concerned about degradation of its equipment
intended for use by toddlers being used by older children and adult congregants
of Chapel. 
¶8       On January 29, 2020, Pacific withdrew its sublease offer,
after learning conditions of the sublease were different than those represented
by Plaintiff.
¶9       Pacific subsequently made several attempts to recover its
initial deposit from Plaintiff, but to no avail. 
 
          b. Good Faith
There
is no showing of bad faith here.
 
 
 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion by Defendant Pacific for leave to file a
cross-complaint is granted. The Cross-complaint is to be separately filed and
served forthwith.   
          The Court also schedules a Trial
Setting Conference in this case for ____________,
2024
at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are ordered to
file and serve updates Case Management Statements no later than five (5) court
days before the conference.
          Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT