 Case Number:  23STCV27094    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Alma Magana’s Motion for Peace Officer Records
Plaintiff
Alma Magana moves for an order requiring defendant City of Long Beach to
disclose peace officer records pertaining to her and defendants Jason Lehman
and Robert Titus.  Generally, peace
officer personnel records are confidential and are not disclosed in any civil
proceeding.  (Pen. Code, § 832.7.)  Penal Code section 832.8, subdivision (a)(5)
defines “personnel records” to include “[c]omplaints, or investigations of
complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or she participated,
or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in which he or she
performed his or her duties.”
Motions
for discovery of these records must include “[a]ffidavits showing good cause
for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof
to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.”  (Evid.
Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).)  
The “ ‘good cause’ requirement has two components.  First, the movant must set forth ‘the
materiality’ of the information sought ‘to the subject matter involved in the
pending litigation.’  (Evid. Code, §
1043, subd. (b)(3).)  The function of
this requirement is to ‘exclude[ ] requests for officer information that are
irrelevant to the pending charges.’ 
[Citation.]  If the movant shows
that the request is ‘relevant to the pending charges, and explains how, the
materiality requirement will be met.’ ” 
(Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs v. Superior Court
(2019) 8 Cal.5th 28, 41.)  “Second, the
‘good cause’ requirement obliges the movant to articulate ‘a “reasonable
belief” that the agency has the type of information sought.’ ”  (Id. at p. 42.)  A plaintiff’s “initial burden is a relatively relaxed standard.  … 
Information is material if it will facilitate the ascertainment of the
facts and a fair trial.”  (Haggerty v.
Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086 (Haggerty)
internal quotes and alterations omitted.) 

Categories
of Records
            Plaintiff requests nine categories
of records.  She does not show good cause
to disclose categories 1, 3, 5, 6, and 9. 
Category 1 seeks writings “that consist of, mention, or reflect any
disciplinary investigations or disciplinary actions taken against” Lehman “for
the ten (10) year period preceding the incident of October 13, 2022.”  Category 3 seeks documents pertaining to
investigations by supervisors “into any charges or complaints, or claims of
conduct unbecoming, or other inappropriate action by Lehman, including the
results and/or findings thereof, from October 2013 to the date of production.”  Category 6 requests all writings concerning
Lehman’s and Titus’s job performance over the last 10 years.  Category 9 requests documents pertaining to any
discipline against Lehman since October 1, 2019.  
Plaintiff
does not show good cause to discover writings about all discipline,
investigations, or performance evaluations of Lehman and Titus.  “The
information sought must . . . be ‘requested with adequate specificity to
preclude the possibility that [the moving party] is engaging in a “fishing
expedition.” ’ ”  (City of Santa Cruz
v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 85.)  These requests are overly broad as to the
subject matter.  This is a sexual
harassment and retaliation case.  The
only investigations, discipline, or performance evaluations that would be
material are those related to sexual harassment or retaliation.  Investigations, discipline, or job
performance in general are immaterial.
            Plaintiff also does not show good
cause for disclosing category No. 5, which seeks all writings regarding
discipline against Lehman and Titus “in response to the incident on October 13,
2022.”  None of plaintiff’s papers,
including her complaint, identify any “incident” on that date.  Counsel’s declaration refers to incidents on
November 28, 2020, and September 11, 2021. 
(Diggs Decl., ¶¶ 6-10.) 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges the City terminated her on October 11,
2022.  (Comp., ¶¶ 35, 76, 89.)  Plaintiff does not show that records about the
unidentified “incident on October 13, 2022” are material to her claims.  
            Plaintiff shows good cause for
partial disclosure of category 2, which requests writings about “any personnel
actions against Lehman, including complaints of… hostile work environment,
harassment, discrimination, retaliation, or other related actions” since
October 2013.  “[M]e-too evidence” of
other discrimination or retaliation can be relevant to prove a defendant’s
discriminatory intent.  (Pantoja v.
Anton (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 87, 114.) 
Writings about other complaints against Lehman for conduct similar to
plaintiff’s allegations are material.  
            Category 2, however, is overly broad
as to time and subject.  Plaintiff alleges
she complained about sexual harassment in 2020. 
(Comp., ¶ 23.)  Information about
events up to seven years earlier is too remote. 
The court will limit these categories to writings regarding personnel
actions or complaints against Lehman since January 1, 2018.  
Category 2
also requests writings about “misconduct” or “conduct unbecoming” in general.  Plaintiff does not show good cause to
disclose those records for the same reasons discussed above with respect to categories
1, 3, 5, 6, and 9.  
Plaintiff
shows good cause for partial disclosure of category 4, which seeks writings
regarding all disciplinary investigations or actions taken against plaintiff
“for the ten (10) year period preceding the incident of October 13, 2022.”  These documents are material to the City’s
motive for terminating plaintiff.  But,
like category 2, the request is overly broad as to time.  The court will limit disclosure to documents
reflecting investigations or actions against plaintiff since January 1,
2018.  
Plaintiff
shows good cause for disclosure of category 7, which seeks “All privileged
records, writings, investigations, reprimands relating to Internal Affairs file
nos., ADM2020-0037 and ADM2021-0048.”  In response to plaintiff’s requests for production about
who made the decision to take an adverse employment action and who supervised
plaintiff, the City agreed to produce “documents relating to IA Case Numbers
ADM2020-0037 & ADM2021-0035.”  (Diggs
Decl., Ex. A, RFP Nos. 2-3.)  Similarly,
in response to plaintiff’s request for production of documents relating to
investigation of plaintiff’s complaints, the City identified the responsive
documents as including “IA File No. ADM2021-0048,” but stated it would only
produce the file pursuant to a Pitchess motion. 
(Diggs Decl., Ex. A, RFP Nos. 8-9.) 
The City’s identification of these documents as responsive to those requests
for production suffices to show the documents are material.
Finally,
plaintiff shows good cause to disclose category 8.  This category seeks documents about
discipline against plaintiff since October 1, 2020.  The documents are material to the City’s
motive for terminating plaintiff.
The
affidavit of plaintiff’s counsel adequately shows a reasonable belief that the
City of Long Beach possesses records within these categories.
Limits to
Disclosure
Defendants
argue the court must disclose only the names and contact information of witnesses
to the complaints or investigations.  In
cases “where a criminal defendant seeks discovery of prior third party
complaints to prove the arresting officer had a history of engaging in violent
acts to support the criminal defendant’s excessive force/self-defense claims …
courts have generally limited the criminal defendant to the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of the prior complainants/witnesses unless the defendant
shows he or she has been unsuccessful in obtaining the relevant information.”  (Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1089-1090.)  
“The
central rationale underlying the rule limiting discovery to witness identifying
information is that the actual documents of third party complaint information
often have minimal relevance and constitute a substantial invasion of officer
privacy.”  (Haggerty, supra, at p.
1090.)  But “courts have generally
recognized that the law enforcement records of the investigation at issue may
be discoverable and have never imposed any special limitations on this
disclosure if the requested discovery otherwise meets the statutory criteria.”  (Ibid.)  
Here, the
actual documents concerning investigations or discipline are likely to be more
than minimally relevant.  Plaintiff’s
claims require her to prove the City subjected her to harassment or an adverse
employment action because of her sex or protected activity.  For sexual harassment, the City may only be
liable for harassment by a non-supervisor if it “kn[ew] or should have known
of” the harassment “and fail[ed] to take immediate and appropriate corrective
action.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(j)(1).)  Given that plaintiff must prove
the City’s motive or knowledge, she needs to discover more than complainants’
or witnesses’ contact information.
Defendants
also argue the court must not disclose any documents reflecting investigators’
conclusions or subjective impressions.  Documents
“reflecting solely the investigating officer’s ‘conclusions,’ defined to mean
the ‘thought processes of, and factual inferences and deductions drawn by, an
officer investigating a complaint, concerning such matters as the credibility
of witnesses or the significance, strength, or lack of evidence’ ” may be
protected from disclosure.  (Haggerty,
supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1089.) 
“The analysis of relevancy in the Pitchess context must
be on a case-by-case basis, rather than on a one-size-fits-all approach.”  (Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1088.)  In Haggerty, the
plaintiff sued for excessive force.  (Id.
at p. 1082.)  The court held, “There is
nothing contained in the officer’s subjective impressions of the facts found
during the investigation that would be admissible at trial or lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Ibid.)  
Here,
plaintiff alleges retaliation and discrimination.  In an excessive force case, the Internal
Affairs investigator’s conclusions (i.e., whether the investigator found the
level of force excessive) are irrelevant. 
That is a question for the jury. 
Retaliation and discrimination, however, require proof of motive—which
is subjective.  And as discussed above,
plaintiff may be required to prove what the City knew about the purported
harassment.  Evidence of the
investigators’ subjective conclusions therefore may be relevant and admissible
at trial.
In their
opposition briefs, the City and Lehman also seek a protective  order limiting disclosure under Evidence Code
section 1045, subdivisions (d) and (e). 
The court will issue such an order. 
            
Disposition
Plaintiff Alma
Magana’s motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records is granted
in part.
Defendant
City of Long Beach is ordered to lodge with the court all documents in
the following categories, no later than December 20, 2024:
(a) Documents
reflecting, constituting or pertaining to any personnel actions against LEHMAN,
related to hostile work environment, harassment, discrimination, or
retaliation, from January 1, 2018, to the present.  Said documents to include complaints by or on
behalf of Plaintiff and/or personnel complaints initiated by the City of Long
Beach, or the Long Beach Police Department based upon complaints by Plaintiff
for sexual harassment, discrimination, or retaliation.
(b) Any and all writings that consist of, mention, or
reflect any disciplinary investigations or disciplinary action taken against
Plaintiff Alma Magana since January 1, 2018, including but not limited to
internal investigation reports from the District Attorney’s Office, reports
from the Office of Independent Review, or other similar writings.
(c) All records,
writings, investigations, reprimands relating to Internal Affairs file nos.,
ADM2020-0037 and ADM2021-0048; and
(d) Documents
evidencing or pertaining to any discipline, or proposed discipline, including
modifications thereto, reports, evidence, interviews, charges, Skelly letters,
Letters of Transmittal, responses, oral writings, written warnings, reprimands,
suspensions, and termination, imposed by the City of Long Beach and/or the Long
Beach Police Department, and/or their agents or employees against PLAINTIFF
from October 1, 2020, to the date of production.
            Defendant City of Long Beach is not
required to disclose any documents that are inadmissible under Penal Code
section 832.7, subdivision (f)(2).
The court
will hold an in camera hearing to review the records on January 7, 2024,
at 10:00 a.m.  After reviewing the
records, the court will order defendant City of Long Beach to produce appropriate
records to plaintiff pursuant to a protective order under Evidence Code section
1045.  