 Case Number:  22STCV02823    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Arunpal Sehgal and
Paramjot Mann’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Requests for Production 
Defendants/cross-complainants Arunpal Sehgal, M.D.
and Paramjot Mann, M.D. move to compel plaintiff/cross-defendant Maneesh
Bansal, M.D. to produce documents in compliance with his responses to requests
for production.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.320, subdivision (a) provides, “If a party filing a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling … thereafter fails to
permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.”
This motion involves two categories of disputes.
1. Failure to Produce or Identify Documents
            The
moving papers contend Bansal failed to produce all documents in response to Sehgal’s
requests for production Nos. 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 20, 39, 40, 43, 45, and 46 and
in response to Mann’s requests for production Nos. 8 and 9.  Bansal argues he did produce the responsive
documents but did not label them as responding to those requests.  (Opp., pp. 11-13.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280,
subdivision (a) provides, “Any documents or category of documents produced in
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be
identified with the specific request number to which the documents respond.”  
Defendants argue that, because plaintiff did not specify
which documents respond to which requests, they have no way to confirm he
produced any documents that respond to the subject requests.  Bansal relies on unpublished federal district
court decisions stating that, when files are produced in searchable format and
with metadata, the producing party need not label them by request number.  “ ‘ “Because of the similarity of California
and federal discovery law, federal decisions have historically been considered
persuasive absent contrary California decisions.” ’ ”  (Vasquez v. California School of Culinary
Arts, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 35, 42–43.)
The court does not find Bansal’s authority
persuasive.  He cites Del Socorro
Quintero Perez v. United States (S.D. Cal., Jan. 25, 2016, No.
13CV1417-WQH-BGS) 2016 WL 304877 and In re MyKey Technology Inc. Patent
Litigation (C.D. Cal., Feb. 25, 2016, No. CV 13-2461-AG (PLAX)) 2016 WL
6662720.  Both decisions apply Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure rule 34(b)(2)(E)(i), which permits two ways to produce
or label documents: “A party must produce documents as they are kept in the
usual course of business or must organize and label them to correspond
to the categories in the request.” 
(Italics added.)  
On this subject, federal and California discovery
law are not similar enough to rely on federal authority.  Unlike rule 34(b)(2)(E)(i), the Civil
Discovery Act provides no alternative to identifying documents “with the
specific request number to which the documents respond.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (a).)  That may be burdensome, but it is mandatory.  Defendants show good cause to require Bansal
to comply.  Bansal may do so by providing
a “table that list[s] by Bates number which documents appl[y] to which
requests.”  (Pollock v. Superior Court
of Los Angeles County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1359.)
The opposition also argues the court should deny the
motion as to Mann’s requests because “Mann has no live claims against Bansal.”  (Opp., p. 15.)  Plaintiff refers to Mann’s former cross-claims.  But Mann is still a defendant to Bansal’s
action.  He is therefore entitled to
conduct discovery. 
2. QuickBooks Files
Defendants
move the court to order Bansal to provide the password for native-format
QuickBooks (.qbw) files he produced. 
Defendants present evidence the files are encrypted or otherwise require
a password Bansal knows.  (Dempsey Decl.,
¶¶ 10-11, Ex. 5.)  When defendants
attempted to open the files, they encountered the following message: “You need
to log in as QuickBooks Desktop Administrator to proceed.  Please enter the admin (owner) password for
the company: [¶] All Season’s Healthcare, Inc.”  (Dempsey Decl., Ex. 5, p. 4; Lee Decl., Ex.
A.)  
Bansal
does not present sufficient evidence that the files do not require a password
unique to the company All Season’s Healthcare, Inc.  Attorney Leah A. Solomon states she “directly
supervised the collection, review, and production of Bansal’s documents”
(Solomon Decl., ¶ 4), and that, “To the best of my knowledge, the native format
files were produced without encryption, but could only be accessed using
QuickBooks software” (id., ¶ 11).  Plaintiff provides no details on how the files
were exported, copied, or produced. 
QuickBooks itself indicates access requires “the admin (owner) password
for” the specific company.  Plaintiff
does not identify any steps taken to confirm that no password was required or,
if a password was required, steps taken to remove it.   
The
opposition contends the files are not encrypted and viewing them merely
requires “Defendants’ own password that they created when they purchased
QuickBooks Desktop and set up a username and password.”  (Lee Decl., ¶ 6.)  This explanation relies on hearsay statements
by unidentified customer service representatives for QuickBooks software.  Even if the evidence were admissible,
plaintiff’s explanation is not persuasive. 
The screenshot from the QuickBooks software indicates defendants need
“the admin (owner) password for the company: [¶] All Season’s Healthcare,
Inc.” (Dempsey Decl., Ex. 5, p. 4), not just the password for one of
multiple QuickBooks accounts.  The most reasonable
interpretation of that message is that accessing the files requires a unique password
for the specified company’s sole administrator account.  
Bansal
argues he should not be required to share his password because doing so “would
give Defendants access to information regarding other unrelated businesses of
Bansal’s.”  (Beatty Decl., ¶ 19.)  Again, plaintiff relies on inadmissible
hearsay.  Plaintiff’s counsel does not
show he has personal knowledge of how Bansal organizes his QuickBooks files or
accounts for different businesses. 
Moreover, even if this assertion is true, that means one of two things:
(1) Bansal maintains data for other businesses in the same QuickBooks account used
for the company All Season’s Healthcare, Inc., or (2) Bansal uses the same
password in different accounts for other businesses.  Neither scenario justifies prohibiting
defendants from viewing the files.  Bansal
offers no evidence or explanation for why he cannot either (1) move the data
from other businesses into a separate account or (2) change the passwords such
that no accounts share the same password.
The
court therefore will order Bansal to provide the admin (owner) password for All
Season’s Healthcare, Inc. within 15 days. 
In the meantime, he can take any actions necessary to move or otherwise
protect the data for unrelated businesses. 
Bansal will also have time to back up all data so that, if defendants alter
any files, Bansal can restore them.
Sanctions
            Defendants
move for monetary sanctions against plaintiff. 
Though his opposition was unsuccessful, plaintiff acted with substantial
justification.  He made reasonable
arguments in support of the opposition. 
The court also finds he acted in good faith in believing his password is
not required for defendants to access the QuickBooks files.
Disposition
Defendants/cross-complainants
Arunpal Sehgal, M.D. and Paramjot Mann, M.D.’s motion to compel compliance with
requests for production is granted
as to labeling the responsive documents.  Plaintiff Maneesh Bansal, M.D. is ordered to comply with Code of Civil Procedure 2031.280,
subdivision (a) within 45 days by providing a table identifying by Bates number
which documents correspond to which requests for production.
Defendants’
motion is granted as to compelling plaintiff Maneesh Bansal, M.D. to provide
his password to access the QuickBooks files. 
Bansal is ordered to provide defendants the QuickBooks admin (owner)
password for the company All Seasons Healthcare, Inc. within 15 days.  