  Case Number:  21STCV26552    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Raichel, and Aaron Eilat’s Demurrer to Third Amended
Complaint
Defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Raichel, and
Aaron Eilat jointly demur to the entire third amended complaint by plaintiff
Ido Erlich Webber.  Plaintiff’s third
amended complaint alleges six causes of action jointly against all defendants:
(1) conversion, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4)
unjust enrichment, (5) accounting, and (6) declaratory relief.
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for any
of his claims.  All six causes of action
rely on the premise that plaintiff “is entitled to receive interests in and
distributions, income and benefits from the Subject Entities and Subject
Properties at least equal, equivalent or comparable to what VEETAHL and AARON
have been and are receiving.”  (3AC, ¶
18.e.)  Plaintiff alleges no facts
supporting the legal conclusion that he is entitled to those things.  Rather than alleging any basis for that
conclusion, he alleges he does not know why he is entitled to them except
because his late father owned the subject entities and properties.  
The third amended complaint alleges, “Plaintiff’s father,
MOSHE, had a substantial interest in” numerous specified properties and
entities.  (3AC, ¶ 18.a.)  He further alleges, “MOSHE intended, wanted
and provided for his three children, VEETAHL, AARON and Plaintiff to be treated
equally and for Plaintiff to receive from the Subject Properties income and
economic benefits equal or equivalent to what VEETAHL and AARON receive.  Plaintiff does not know the specific mechanism
as to how that was supposed to happen.  However,
Plaintiff knows that MOSHE loved all of his children equally and would not have
wanted Plaintiff to be excluded from having interests in, or from receiving
income, distributions and benefits at least equal to those received by VEETAHL
and AARON from, the Subject Properties and the Subject Entities.”  (¶ 18.b.) 

A parent’s love or what he would or would not have
wanted are not valid bases for legal ownership of property.  Being one of three siblings does not
automatically mean plaintiff is entitled to one third of what his father
owned.  Plaintiff alleges no other reason
why he owns an interest in the subject properties and entities.  
The court need not and does not reach the other
grounds for defendants’ demurrer.
Defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Raichel, and
Aaron Eilat’s demurrer to the entire third amended complaint is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.