 Case Number:  22VECV02441    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  W R. V. v. LOS
ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
Date of Hearing:        May
23, 2024                         Trial
Date:       March
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02441
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
R.V.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Masry Decl. ¶4.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff R.V.
filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District. On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint asserting causes of
action for Negligent Supervision of Employee/Agent; Negligent Retention of
Employee/Agent; Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee;
Breach of Mandatory Duty (Under Education Code Section 44807); Breach of
Mandatory Duty (Failure to Report Under Penal Code Section 11166, et seq.); Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; and Negligence. On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action against LAUSD. 
 
Plaintiff alleges when she was
approximately five years old, she met JOHN DOE at LAUSD’s Hart Elementary
School, where Plaintiff was a student. Plaintiff alleges after meeting JOHN
DOE, JOHN DOE began “grooming” Plaintiff with the specific intent of manipulating
her emotions and taking advantage of her vulnerabilities and young age. During
approximately the 1994-1995 and/or 1995-1996 school year, Plaintiff alleges JOHN
DOE regularly and repeatedly sexually assaulted and abused Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD failed to take reasonable steps and implement reasonable
safeguards to avoid inappropriate or unlawful conduct by JOHN DOE against
students. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is DENIED, IN PART. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff
requests this court take judicial notice of several documents regarding the legislative
history of Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”). (See RJN, Exhs. 1-8.) The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant LAUSD moves for
judgment on the pleadings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 438 and
439 against Plaintiff R.V.’s FAC on the grounds that the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in Plaintiff’s FAC are legally
impermissible as a violation of the California Constitution. Defendant contends
AB 218 retroactively strips governmental immunity from public entities. 
 
Alleged with Particularity 
 
Defendant LAUSD first argues
Plaintiff fails to plead facts with the required particularity as required
against a public entity. Defendant LAUSD contends Plaintiff’s generalized
narrative fails to provide any substantive information including how the School
District knew or should have known that the unmade teacher presented a risk to
Plaintiff, or any students. As a result, there is no specificity as to the
names of people, events, or other information that would have put the School
District on notice regarding the allegations. 
 
The court agrees beyond the
conclusory allegations that Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge of
abuse, Plaintiff has failed to allege any facts establishing Defendant’s staff
were aware of JOHN DOE’s sexual abuse. “Ordinarily, negligence may be pleaded
in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or omission
alleged to constitute the breach of duty. [Citation]. However, because under
the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the
general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity
is applicable. Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.’” (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795.) 
 
Here, the complaint alleges
LAUSD knew or should have known that JOHN DOE engaged in inappropriate
behavior, including spending unsupervised one-on-one time with minors,
established inappropriate boundaries with minors, and inappropriately touching
minors. However, allegations that a school employee sexually abused a minor
“does not of itself establish, or raise any presumption, that the employing
district should bear liability for the resulting injuries” as a “[school]
district's liability must be based on¿evidence¿of negligent hiring,
supervision or retention, not on assumptions or speculation.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 878.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Failure to Report
 
Defendant LAUSD argues Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for failure to report suspected child abuse only creates
direct liability for individuals and not a public entity. Specifically, Penal
Code section 11166, et seq. applies only to individuals and provides immunity
from civil liability for mandated reporters who report as obliged under this
law. Accordingly, there is nothing in this Penal Code enactment that creates
liability for the School District. 
 
The court disagrees. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant, through its agents and employees “knew or reasonably
suspected that JOHN DOE” “were acting inappropriately with Plaintiff.” (FAC
¶50.)  The complaint sufficiently alleges
facts that, if sufficiently proven to a trier of fact, would provide reasonable
suspicion of child abuse triggering the duty of a mandated employee to report.
Because “[a] public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a
cause of action against that employee or his personal representative,”
Defendant may be vicariously liable for their employees’ failure to report.
(Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).)  
 
The Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings on this basis is DENIED. 
 
Three-Year Revival Period 
 
Defendant LAUSD argues the
statutory language in subdivision (q) of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1
explicitly revives only those claims that have not already reached final
adjudication. However, Plaintiff has failed to allege any facts that bring her
within this three-year revival period. 
 
The court finds the
allegations sufficient that her claims are commenced within the three years
revival period. 
 
Violation of Gift Clause
 
Defendant LAUSD argues the
retroactive application of AB 218 violates the gift clause in Article XVI,
Section 6 of the California Constitution. The court disagrees. 
 
LAUSD cites several cases for
its proposition AB 218 violates the gift clause because it retroactively strips
statutory government immunity from public entities such as LAUSD by eliminating
the time limit to initiate lawsuits for childhood sexual assault claims brought
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1. (See Shirk v. Vista
Unified Sch. Dist. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201; see also Rubenstein v. Doe No.
1 (2017) 3 Cal.5th 903.) 
 
Plaintiff relies on several
cases including Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 415, which discussed the legislative history of Section 340.1,
making it clear that the modification of Government Code section 905 was to
allow this section to be applied retroactively. 
 
The court agrees. The
Legislature expressly intended and had the authority to revive lapsed claims,
including lapsed claims against the State. (Liebig v. Superior Court (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 828, 830 [“[T]he Legislature has the power to retroactively
extend a civil statute of limitations to revive a cause of action time-barred
under the former limitations period.”].) Moreover, AB 218 did not create an
obligation on the part of a governmental agency to pay a claim made by
Plaintiff. Rather, AB 218 revives previously time-barred civil claims, which
still must be proven in court. As noted in Heron v. Riley (1930) 209
Cal. 507, cited by LAUSD, judgments which are to be paid by the State “bear no
semblance to gifts.” (Heron v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517.)
 
In reply, LAUSD attempts to
differentiate Coats on the basis Coats did not address the gift
clause at all and, in fact, only addresses whether AB 218 runs afoul of the
constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws and the due process
clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
However, the court finds the same rational applies to the situation at hand.
Specifically, Coats addressed how “subdivision (m) was added to section
905 in 2008, in direct response to Shirk”, and found by enacting AB 218, the
Legislature “lengthened the time within which an action for damages resulting
from ‘childhood sexual assault’ could be brought and revived lapsed claim that
had “not been litigated to finality and that would otherwise be barred as of
January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute of limitations, claim
presentation deadline, or any other time limit had expired[.]” (Coats, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th 415, 422-424.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
finds AB 218 fits within the public purpose exception to the California
constitution’s gift clause. “The determination of what constitutes a public
purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature to determine, and its
discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as that determination
has a reasonable basis. [Citations.]” (County of Alameda v. Carleson
(1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 746.) The public purpose of Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.1 was “ ‘to ensure that victims severely damaged by childhood
sexual abuse are able to seek compensation from those responsible, whether
those responsible are private or public entities....’ ” [Citations.] (A.M.
v. Ventura Unified School Dist. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1252, 1264.) This
purpose goes far beyond merely compensating individual victims by revival of
their individual claims; it naturally includes exposing perpetrators of sexual
abuse, investigating public and private institutions’ failure to protect
children in their care, improving reporting and handling of sexual abuse
reports, and educating the public at large about childhood sexual abuse, its
prevalence and how to guard against it. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the constitutionality of AB 218 is
DENIED. 
 
 