  Case Number:  20STCV33230    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



 
RICHARD BYE, et al., 
 
Plaintiff(s), 
vs. 
 
BUILT IN 72, et al., 
                                                                               
Defendant(s).
 
_______________________________________
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 


      
       CASE NO.: 20STCV33230 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION
  OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Date: April 25,
  2024 
Time: 8:30
  a.m. 
Dept. 56 
 




 


 


 



 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Rodriguez Plastering   
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None 
 
The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition or reply papers
have been filed as of April 23, 2024.  
 
BACKGROUND 
This action arises out of a dispute
concerning a construction project.  On
March 25, 2024, Cross-Defendant Rodriguez Plastering (“Moving Cross-Defendant”)
filed the instant motion for determination of good faith settlement (the
“Motion”).  The Motion is made pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a). 
No opposition has been filed as of April 23, 2025. 
 
DISCUSSION  
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2) states as
follows: 
In the alternative, a settling party
may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested,
or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court.
Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order,
or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of
motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling
parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application,
and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may
approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the
manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.  However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement.
 
 
 The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court based on affidavits served with the
notice of hearing, and any counter affidavits filed in response, or the court
may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
A party asserting lack of good faith in settlement has the burden of
proving lack of good faith.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)  The
objecting party may carry its burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to various factors, including: 
(1)  A rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability;  
(2)  The
amount paid in settlement;  
(3)  The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;  
(4)  A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial;  
(5)  The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants;
and  
(6) 
The existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling
defendants.  
 
 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499-500.)  When the motion for
determination of good faith settlement is unopposed, then it may be granted
without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of
setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of
the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace
v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude
that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is
incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors.  That is to say, when no one
objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.”)
 
Here, Moving Cross-Defendant seeks an order finding that its
settlement with plaintiffs, Richard and Jennifer Bye (collectively the
“Settling Parties”), was made in good faith, and for an order dismissing all
pending complaints and cross-complaints against Moving Cross-Defendants, and
barring any future claims by joint tortfeasors for equitable comparative
contribution or partial comparative indemnity based upon comparative negligence
or comparative fault arising out of this matter.  The terms of the settlement are that
Moving Cross-Defendant agrees to jointly pay plaintiffs the total sum of
$12,500 in exchange for a full settlement and release agreement.  The
application should be granted based on the following.
 
The Notice of Motion and Motion and Declarations were
served on March 25, 2024, via e-mail. 
(3/25/24 Proof of Service.)  The application indicates
the Settling Parties and the basis, terms and amount of the settlement.  (Motion pp. 4-6.)  The non-settling parties have not filed a
motion challenging the application for good faith settlement determination.  Since the application is uncontested, it shall be granted
so long as it sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
setting forth a brief background of the case. 
Upon review, the Court finds both requirements have been met here.  (Motion pp. 4-6; O’Shea Decl.; Bye Decl.;
Rodriguez Decl.) 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement filed by Cross-Defendant Rodriguez Plastering
is GRANTED pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6(a).  
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
 
           Dated this 25th
day of April 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


