 Case Number:  21STCV24228    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TED WAITT,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TYLER
  DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.





      CASE NO.: 21STCV24228
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION TO BIFURCATE  
 
Date: April 25, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Maiden Stone, Inc. (“Maiden”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers, the opposition papers and the replies.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Ted Waitt, Trustee of the Nightingale Trust dated November 1, 2007 filed this
construction defect action on June 29, 2021. 
Plaintiff alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3)
professional negligence; (4) strict products liability; (5) breach of express
warranty; (6) breach of implied warranty (merchantability); (7) breach of
implied warranty (fitness); and (8) declaratory relief.  
Plaintiff
entered into a construction contract with general contractor Defendant Tyler
Development Corporation (“Tyler”) to build a 14,000 square foot, single family
residence at 9280 Nightingale Drive, Los Angeles, CA (the “Project”).  Defendant Stoneland, Inc. (“Stoneland”)
entered into a construction contract directly with Tyler to install travertine
stone tile flooring and exterior pavers at the Project.  Tyler entered into an agreement with Maiden
to supply quarried travertine stone for installation at the Project.  
 
On
July 9, 2021, Tyler filed a cross-complaint against Stoneland and other
parties, including Maiden, for breach of contract, equitable indemnity,
contribution, express indemnity and declaratory relief.  On November 5, 2021, Tyler dismissed Maiden
from its cross-complaint without prejudice.
 
On
December 23, 2023, Stoneland filed a cross-complaint against Maiden, alleging
implied equitable indemnity, comparative contribution, declaratory relief,
negligence and implied contractual indemnity. 
On February 21, 2024, Maiden filed a cross-complaint against Stoneland
for equitable indemnity, contribution, breach of implied warranty, negligence,
implied contractual indemnity and declaratory relief.  
 
On
March 22, 2024, Maiden filed this Motion to Bifurcate (the “Motion”), seeking
to bifurcate its cross-complaint against Stoneland and Stoneland’s
cross-complaint against Maiden, and to try the two cross-complaints together after
the trial of the remaining case.  On
April 12, 2024, Stoneland and Plaintiff each filed oppositions to Maiden’s
request to bifurcate.  On April 18, 2024,
Maiden filed replies to Stoneland’s and Plaintiff’s oppositions.  
Jury
trial is scheduled for August 12, 2024.  
            
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
            Pursuant to CCP §1048(b), “The court,
in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials
will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any
cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or
of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues,
preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute
of the state or of the United States.”
            
            CCP §598 provides in pertinent part
as follows:   “The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after
notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part
thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the
case, except for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections
597 and 597.5.” (Emphasis added).
 
            The terms “bifurcate” and “severance” are often used
interchangeably. But they have somewhat different meanings.  A motion to “sever” asks the court to order
separate trials of issues, causes of action, or parties joined in a single
action.  (CCP §§ 1048(b), 598, 597,
597.5, 379.5; Bly-Magee v. Budget Rent-A-Car Corp. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
318, 323, fn. 5.)  The purpose is to
avoid prejudice, to promote convenience, or to permit greater expedience and
economy.  (CCP § 1048(b).)  
            A motion to “bifurcate” is a type of severance motion. It
asks for a separate trial on the issue of liability before trial of
damages.  The objective is “to avoid
wasting court time in cases where the plaintiff loses on the liability issue,
to promote settlements where the plaintiff wins on the liability issue, and to
afford a more logical presentation of the evidence, thus simplifying the issues
for the jury.”  (Foreman & Clark
Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)
 
            Granting or denying of a motion for separate trials lies
within the trial court’s sound discretion, and is subject to reversal on appeal
only for clear abuse.  (Grappo v
Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal App 3d 496, 504.)  “The major objective of bifurcated trials is
to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.”  (Foreman & Clark v. Fallon (1971)
3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)  CCP §1048 also
authorizes a court to separate trial of any issue for furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice or where separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy.
 
            Parties’ Positions
            Maiden argues that bifurcation is
necessary to prevent prejudicing its case. 
Maiden argues that this case action has been pending for more than three
years, but it was only named in Stoneland’s cross-complaint on December 20,
2023.  Maiden argues it will only have 45
days to conduct discovery and bring a dispositive motion and that it has only recently
received a large volume of discovery. 
Maiden argues it would be prejudicial to force it to hasten its own
preparation for trial, given that Plaintiff, Defendant, Cross-Defendants and
Cross-Complainants have had longstanding claims.  
 
            Maiden also argues that Stoneland’s equitable claims are
premature without completion of Plaintiff’s litigation.  Maiden argues that most of the complexity in
this litigation resides with Plaintiff’s claims and the associated
cross-complaints and that the outcome of Plaintiff’s litigation could
ultimately dispose of other cross-complaints. 
    
 
In
opposition, Stoneland contends that Maiden fails to establish that bifurcation
would promote judicial economy and efficiency or prevent undue prejudice to any
party, and that it would be prejudiced by bifurcation because two trials would
be redundant and waste the parties’ resources and time.  
 
The
Court finds that all of Maiden’s concerns in the Motion would be addressed by
the continuance of the trial.  The Court finds
that good cause exists for the continuance of the trial to allow the parties to
complete discovery and to file dispositive motions.  Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion, but on
its own motion ADVANCES and VACATES the current Final Status Conference (“FSC”)
and trial date and CONTINUES the FSC to February 19, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. and the
trial date to March 3, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. 

 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
               Dated this 25th day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 