 Case Number:  24STCV00648    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TISGAR HAROUN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HOCB RETAIL LLC, HOUSE OF
CB USA, LLC, SIRENS DESIGN
LLC, EGYPTSIA NEVERS, and
DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV00648
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANTS’ RESPONSES
  TO FORM INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL AND EMPLOYMENT LAW (SET ONE), SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE), AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE);
  REQUEST FOR $1,050.00 IN MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Date: July 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Tisgar Haroun (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
HOCB Retail LLC, House of CB USA, LLC, and Sirens Design LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers
and the declaration filed in response to the motion. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from an employment dispute.  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint asserting various causes of action, including wrongful termination, discrimination
and retaliation.  
 
            On May 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a single motion (the “Motion”) to compel Defendants’ responses
to the following four (4) sets of discovery served on Defendants: (1) Form
Interrogatories – General, Set One; (2) Form Interrogatories – Employment Law,
Set One; (3) Special Interrogatories, Set One; and (4) Request for Production
of Documents, Set One (collectively “Discovery Requests”).  Plaintiff also seeks an award of monetary
sanction in the amount of $1,050.
 
            On July 8, 2024, Defendants’
counsel, Calvin House, submitted a declaration in response to Plaintiff’s
Motion (“House Decl.”).  
             
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the
interrogatories were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to
respond to the interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the
court to compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 906.)  
 
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
 
            Here, Plaintiff
served Defendants with the Discovery Requests on February 19, 2024.  (Declaration of Levon Derkalousdian, Esq. (“Derkalousdian
Decl.”), ¶ 2.)  As of May 17, 2024, Defendants
have not provided responses to any of the Discovery Requests.  (Derkalousdian Decl., ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling
Defendants to serve responses to the Discovery Requests.
 
            Defendants’
counsel submitted a declaration on July 8, 2024, stating that Defendant served
Plaintiff with verified responses to the Discovery Requests on May 31, 2024,
without objections, and attached said discovery responses.  (House Decl., ¶ 2, Exhs. 1-12.)
 
            Accordingly, since
verified responses, without objections, have now been served, the Motion is MOOT.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
Nevertheless, the question of sanctions still
remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the
trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses…the trial court retains the authority to hear the motion.”  (Id., at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important incentive for
parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id., at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the
motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial
court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in
whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 409; Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1348, subd. (a) [“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed”].)
 
            “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
Here, the
declaration submitted by Defendants’ counsel offers no justification for the
delayed responses.  (House Decl.)  Thus, the Court finds that monetary sanctions
are warranted.  Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions in the total amount of $1,050, representing two hours spent
in preparing the Motion plus an anticipated one hour for preparing a reply and
arguing the Motion, based on an hourly rate of $350.  (Derkalousdian Decl., ¶ 9.)  The Court finds that because no reply was
prepared and the Motion itself is moot, although it was filed before responses
were served, reasonable sanctions are in the amount of $700 for the two hours
required to prepare the Motion. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted in part, in
the reasonable amount of $700.  
 
Defendants
and their counsel are jointly and severally liable for this amount, which is
payable to Plaintiff within twenty days of the date of this order.
 
Improperly Combined Motions
            The
Court notes, however, that Plaintiff has impermissibly combined motions seeking
relief for each discovery device.  A
motion must be brought separately for each discovery method at issue.  (Govt. Code, § 70617(a)(4) [setting forth the
required filing fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or request
requiring a hearing]; The Rutter Group California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial, Ch. 8F-7 [8:1136] [“Motions to compel compliance with
separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”].)  
 
Plaintiff
should have filed four separate motions, each with its own filing fee; instead,
Plaintiff filed only one motion and paid one filing fee.  Therefore, Plaintiff is ordered to pay three additional
$60 filing fees for a total of $180 as a condition to the granting of this
Motion.
 
 
The
Motion is MOOT; however, monetary sanctions are awarded in favor of Plaintiff
in the total amount of $750, to be paid by Defendants and their counsel within
20 days of the date of this Order.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay $180 in previously
unpaid filing fees to the Court within twenty days of the date of this order.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



