 Case Number:  21STCV18162    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE LUIS
  GONZALEZ CASTILLO, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FRANCISCO CADENA, et al.,
                                                                              
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21SCTV18162
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
  THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: July 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 27, 2025
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Hyundai Motor Company and Hyundai Motor America
(collectively, “Hyundai” or “Defendants”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action was
filed on May 13, 2021 and arises out of an automobile accident in which a
Hyundai automobile (the “Vehicle”) driven by Defendant Francisco Cadena, struck
Plaintiff Jose Castillo and decedent Maria Perez.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges claims against Defendants for: (1) negligence;
(2) product liability; and (3) wrongful death and survival action, arising,
among other things, from alleged defects in the Vehicle. 
 
            On June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion (the “Motion”) for leave to file Third Amended
Complaint (the “TAC”). On July 10, 2024, Hyundai filed its opposition papers to
the Motion and on July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply.  
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to allow
amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice.  (See CCP § 473, subd. (a).)  CCP section 576 provides that any judge, at
any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice,
and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.  (CCP §
576.)  There is a policy of great liberality
in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.) 
If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion
will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to
amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right
to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not
only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.) 
Under California Rules of Court (“CRC”)
rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend a pleading must be accompanied by a
declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made sooner.  (CRC, r.
3.1324(b).)  Plaintiffs have met these
requirements.
 
In support of the Motion, Plaintiffs’ counsel
declares that Plaintiffs obtained the facts underlying the proposed additional
allegations of defects from discovery responses and test results received by
Plaintiffs since his retention as co-counsel to Plaintiffs on February 13,
2024.  (Declaration of John F. Medlar,
Jr. (“Medlar Decl.”).  
 
In opposition to the Motion, Hyundai takes
the position that Plaintiffs’ purportedly recently-obtained evidence in support
of the amendment was or should have been known to Plaintiffs at least ten
months before the Motion was filed and that therefore the Motion was not timely
filed.  Hyundai’s primary argument,
however, is that the Motion is only being filed as a delaying tactic to avoid Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment (the “MSJ”), which is set for hearing on August 21,
2024. 
 
If the Motion is granted, the MSJ, which is
directed to the SAC, will become moot and will be taken off-calendar.  
 
The MSJ was filed on February 7, 2024 and set
for hearing on April 24, 2024.  On March
25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Ex Parte Application to continue the hearing on
the MSJ (the “Ex Parte”), on the ground that they needed to obtain further
discovery upon which to oppose the MSJ. 
Although Hyundai opposed the continuance, the Court granted the Ex Parte
as it is required to do under CCP section 437c(h). which provides:
 
If it appears from the affidavits submitted
in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or
both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for
reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a
continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make
any other order that may be just.  The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.
 
The Court granted the Ex Parte and continued
the MSJ hearing to the current date of August 21, 2024.  The Court notes that Plaintiffs did file
opposition papers to the MSJ on June 20, 2024 – the same date that the Motion
was filed.  Plaintiffs assert that they
have discovered new facts relating to a condition known as “brake pedal drift,”
which they have determined to be the cause of the accident underlying this
lawsuit, and that the pleadings need to be amended to allege these new
facts.  
 
Hyundai contends that Plaintiffs either knew
or should have known of these additional claimed facts at least ten months
before the Motion was filed, and that therefore the Motion should be denied as
untimely.  The Court disagrees.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have provided
sufficient credible evidence that amendment of the SAC and filing of the
proposed TAC are warranted under the law. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion and orders Plaintiffs to file the
TAC within five (5) court days of the date of this order.  
 
If the TAC is filed, it will be the operative
pleading in the case and the current MSJ will be MOOT.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
                                                                                    Dated
this 30th day of April 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 


