  Case Number:  19STCP00482    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITIZENS FOR AMENDING PROPOSITION L;
  VERNON PRICE; and J. KEITH STEPHENS,
 
                        Petitioners/Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CITY OF POMONA, a California municipal corporation,
  and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondents/Defendants.
 
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC., a
  California Corporation,
 
                        Real Party in
  Interest., 
 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCP00482
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC.’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL THE CITY OF POMONA’S COMPLIANCE WITH THE JANUARY 12, 2024
  ORDER AND THE STIPULATION BETWEEN THE PARTIES AT THE JANUARY 12, 2024
  INFORMAL DISCOVERY CONFERENCE, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR TERMINATING
  SANCTIONS, ISSUE AND EVIDENCE SANCTIONS, AND MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT
  OF $6,721
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC.’S
  MOTION TO QUASH AND STAY THE CITY OF POMONA’S NOTICE OF TAKING DEPOSITION OF
  BRIAN KENNEDY, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER AS TO THE
  DEPOSITION OF BRIAN KENNEDY; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
  $4,191
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING,
INC.’S MOTION TO QUASH AND STAY THE CITY
  OF POMONA’S AMENDED NOTICE OF TAKING DEPOSITION OF PHILIP BERARDI, OR, IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER AS TO THE
DEPOSITION OF PHILIP BERARDI;
REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
$4,191.00
 
REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING,
INC.’S MOTION TO QUASH AND STAY THE CITY
  OF POMONA’S AMENDED NOTICE OF TAKING DEPOSITION OF PERSON MOST QUALIFIED OF REGENCY
  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC., OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
  ORDER AS TO THE DEPOSITION OF REGENCY’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED; REQUEST FOR
MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF $4,863.00
 
 
Date: July 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTIONS.
______________________________________
 
MOVING PARTY: Real
Party in Interest REGENCY OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, INC. (“Regency”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent/Defendant
CITY OF POMONA (the “City”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arose from a dispute over the
City’s regulation of billboards.  Plaintiffs filed a complaint on February 14,
2019, essentially alleging that the City was helping Regency flout the law by
allowing Regency to operate and maintain billboards in violation of Proposition
L, which imposed restrictions on the erection of new billboards in the City.
 
On
November 17, 2022, the City filed its operative first amended cross-complaint
(the “FACC”) against Regency, alleging: (1) implied equitable indemnity; (2)
contribution; (3) declaratory relief; (4) express contractual indemnity; (5)
breach of contract; (6) breach of contract; and (7) declaratory relief.  On May 5, 2023, the City filed a Motion for
Summary Adjudication (“MSA”) as to its third and seventh causes of action for
declaratory relief.  In its October 30,
2023 Minute Order, the Court adjudicated the City’s third cause of action as
moot since the City cannot be found liable for Plaintiffs’ damages, and granted
the City’s MSA as to its seventh cause of action.  
 
            Regency and the City participated in
an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) with the Court on January 12, 2024,
and stipulated to the issuance of the following Order (“IDC Order”):  “City will serve further, verified and
Code-compliant responses to Regency’s Requests for Production Nos. 1, 2, 4 and
25 within thirty days of the date of this Order.”  (January 12, 2024 Minute Order.)
 
On
March 19, 2024, the City filed a Request for Dismissal, voluntarily dismissing
its first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in its FACC against Regency.  As a result, the only presently remaining
causes of action under the City’s FACC are the fifth and sixth causes of action
for breach of contract.  
 
On
June 17, 2024, Regency filed a motion to compel the City’s compliance with the
IDC Order, or in the alternative, a motion to compel further responses to its
requests for production, with a request for sanctions (the “Motion to Compel”).  The City filed its opposition on July 17,
2024, and Regency filed a reply on July 24, 2024.
 
On
June 24, 2024, Regency filed a motion to quash and stay the City’s notice of taking
the deposition of Brian Kennedy (“Kennedy”) or, alternatively, a motion for a
protective order as to the deposition of Kennedy, with a request for monetary
sanctions (the “Motion to Quash re Kennedy”). 
On July 3, 2024, the City filed its opposition, and Regency filed a
reply on July 23, 2024.
 
On
June 27, 2024, Regency filed a motion to quash and stay the City’s amended
notice of taking the deposition of Philip Berardi (“Berardi”) or,
alternatively, a motion for a protective order as to the deposition of Berardi,
with a request for monetary sanctions (the “Motion to Quash re Berardi”).  On July 17, 2024, the City filed its
opposition, and Regency filed a reply on July 24, 2024.
 
On
June 27, 2024, Regency also filed a motion to quash and stay the City’s amended
notice of taking deposition of Regency’s Person Most Qualified of Regency’s (“Regency’s
PMQ”) or, alternatively, a motion for a protective order as to the deposition
of Regency’s PMQ, with a request for monetary sanctions (the “Motion to Quash
re Regency’s PMQ”).  On July 17, 2024,
the City filed its opposition, and Regency filed a reply on July 24, 2024.
 
Motion to Compel 
Legal Standard
Although
there is no specific provision in the Discovery Act to “compel compliance” with
a court’s discovery order, the court may “compel obedience to its judgments,
orders, and process . . . in an action or proceeding pending therein” under Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 128(a)(4).  “[C]ourts have inherent equity, supervisory
and administrative powers [citation] as well as inherent power to control
litigation before them.  [Citation.]”  (Cottle v. Superior Court (1992) 3
Cal.App.4th 1367, 1377.)
 
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).)
 
A
motion to compel a further response to a request for production must be noticed
within 45 days of the service of the response, or any supplemental response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing. 
Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel further
response to the inspection demand.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c); Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409; Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)  The motion must
also be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of any issue presented by it.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).)  Finally, a motion to compel further responses
to inspection demands must be accompanied by a separate document that sets
forth each item to which further response is requested and the factual and
legal reasons for compelling it. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)
                        
The
procedural requirements for meet and confer and a separate statement have been
met in this case.
 
At
its core, Regency asserts in its Motion to Compel that the City did not produce
the documents that were purportedly the focus of the IDC, i.e., redacted legal
invoices reflecting attorneys’ fees and costs. 
(Declaration of Jesse Steinbach in Support of Motion to Compel (“MTC
Steinbach Decl.”), ¶¶ 9-10, 14.)  Instead,
the City served amended responses stating: “The City is not seeking to recover
its attorneys’ fees as damages, but reserves all rights to seek its attorneys’
fees pursuant to the terms of the Development Agreement.”  (Id., ¶ 13; Exh. O.)  Regency argues that the City is improperly re-characterizing
the same fees it previously sought as damages as prevailing party attorneys’
fees.  Regency thus contends that the City
has improperly disregarded the IDC Order and failed to provide non-evasive, Code-compliant
responses to Regency’s Request for Production of Documents (“RFPs”) Nos. 1 and
2.  
 
In
its opposition, the City asserts that the City served amended responses to
Regency’s RFPs Nos. 1, 2, 4, and 25 on February 8, 2024, and that it has
complied with the IDC Order.   (Declaration of Andrew Saghian in Support of
Opposition to Motion to Compel, ¶ 5.)  The
City argues that neither the Court at the IDC nor the IDC itself required the City
to produce any documents, let alone required the City to produce redacted versions
of the legal invoices reflecting attorneys’ fees and costs.  The City further argues that since it has
voluntarily dismissed its indemnity and contribution claims against Regency,
there is no more basis for Regency to discover the documents it is seeking
through the Motion to Compel.  (Id.,
¶¶ 4-6.)  
 
            At the heart of this discovery dispuisare
the City’s amended responses to RFPs Nos. 1 and 2.  These requests seek documents supporting or
evidencing the City’s claim for damages. 
In its amended responses to RFPs No. 1 and 2, the City stated: “The City
is not seeking to recover its attorneys’ fees as damages, but reserves all
rights to seek its attorneys’ fees pursuant to the terms of the Development
Agreement.”  (MTC Steinbach Decl., Exh.
O.)  The Court is not persuaded by City’s
argument that since it is no longer seeking damages under its voluntarily
dismissed indemnity and contribution claims, there is no basis for Regency to
discover the City’s attorneys’ fee invoices. 
Although the City is no longer pursuing damages under its previous
indemnity claims, it can be inferred from its amended response that it may
still try to recover damages under its remaining breach of contract claims, including
attorneys’ fees.  In fact, the City expressly
reserves the right to do so.
 
For
discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement
thereof.”  (City of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  Furthermore, to the extent there is any doubt
in whether these records should be discoverable, California’s liberal approach
to discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2
Cal.3d 161, 173.)
 
Moreover,
the Court finds that the City’s amended responses do not sufficiently comply
with CCP § 2031.230, which states: “A representation of inability to comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall
affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.”  The City did not affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry were made, nor did the City clearly
state the reason(s) why it cannot produce the requested documents, e.g.,
because the documents are no longer in City’s possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  Rather, it
vaguely attempts to justify its nonproduction of the requested documents by
claiming that it is not seeking to recover attorneys’ fees, while at the same
time reserving the right to do so.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Compel is GRANTED.  The City is ordered to provide further
verified, Code-compliant responses to RFPs Nos. 1 and 2, and to produce any
responsive documents thereto within twenty days of the date of this Order.  
 
Sanctions
As
part of its sanctions request in its Motion to Compel, Regency seeks
terminating sanctions consisting of a judgment on all claims alleged in the
City’s FACC; for issue and evidence sanctions preventing the City from seeking
to recover, or introducing any evidence relating to, any of the attorneys’ fees
and costs that the City may have incurred in connection with defending against
Plaintiffs’ claims in this case; and for monetary sanctions against the City in
the amount of $6,721.
 
“Discovery
sanctions should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that
which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.”  (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  It is well established that the primary
purpose of discovery sanctions is curative, not punitive.  (Welgoss v. End (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d
982, 992; Caryl Richards, Inc. v. Superior Court (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d
300, 303-304.) Generally, the discovery statutes evince an incremental approach
to sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of dismissal. (Doppe, supra.) “Although in extreme cases a
court has the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure
[citations], a terminating sanction should generally not be imposed until the
court has attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful
and/or the record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” (Lopez,
supra.) A terminating sanction is a  draconian
remedy, and it is appropriate only when less severe alternatives will not
vindicate the court’s authority and the purpose of the subject discovery.  (Rail Services of America v. State Com.
Ins. Fund (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 323, 332; New Albertsons, Inc.
v.Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1423.) 
 
Here,
the Court notes that Regency’s Motion to Compel is based on a single incident
of non-compliance with the Court’s Order. 
At this point, Defendants have not as much exhibited a history of non-compliance.  As such, terminating, issue and evidence
sanctions are not warranted.
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully
made or opposed a motion to compel further, the court “shall impose a monetary
sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (CCP §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
 
Since the City’s amended responses are not
Code-compliant, monetary sanctions are appropriate.  Regency seeks monetary sanctions in the total amount
of $6,721. (Declaration of Jeffrey Rosenfeld in Support of Motion to Compel, ¶¶
2, 5-6, 9.)  The Court exercises its
discretion and imposes monetary sanctions against the City and its counsel,
jointly and severally, in the reasonable total amount of $2,660, representing 4
hours at $400, 2 hours at $500, and $60 filing fees. This amount is due to be
paid to Regency within twenty days of the date of this Order.
             
Motions to Quash
            In the interest of expediency, the Court will jointly consider the Motion
to Quash re Kennedy, the Motion to Quash re Birardi and the Motion to Quash re
Regency’s PMQ (collectively, “Motions to Quash”).
 
Evidentiary Objections
            The City’s Evidence
Objection to the Declaration of Philip Berardi is OVERRULED in its entirety.
 
Legal Standard
            “Any party served with a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  “In
addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order
staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  The taking of the deposition is stayed pending
the determination of this motion.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)
            
In
the Motions to Quash, the primary issues presented by Regency are that the City
unilaterally selected deposition dates when the deponents (Kennedy and Berardi
– who is also Regency’s PMQ) were not available, and that it was improper for
the City to demand that the deponents appear for an in-person deposition in
Riverside, California, rather than a remote deposition.  Specifically, in the Motion to Quash re
Kennedy, Regency claims that Kennedy is unavailable on the June 25, 2024
deposition date that the City selected in the notice of deposition and is
unable to travel to the Riverside location identified by the City.  (Declaration of Philip Berardi in Support of
the Motion to Quash re Kennedy, ¶¶ 3, 6-7.  Regency asserts that Kennedy is 83 years old,
is very ill and has cancer, and is unable to travel long distances.  (Id. at ¶¶ 3-4.)  Kennedy resides in Beverly Hills, California,
and, in his current condition, is unable to travel the long distance from his
house to and from the Riverside deposition location selected by the City.  (Id.) at ¶¶ 3-5.  Regency contends that it provided multiple
notices to the City’s counsel that Regency and Mr. Kennedy elect to have this
deposition taken via remote means pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
2025.310(a).  (Declaration of Jesse Steinbach
in Support of the Motion to Quash re Kennedy, ¶¶ 7, 8.)
 
As
for Berardi, Regency similarly asserts that the City’s demand for Berardi to
travel to Riverside, CA, for the deposition is improper since Berardi resides
in Sherman Oaks, CA, which is approximately 74 to 75 miles from Riverside, CA.  Berardi asserts that as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Regency, he has a very demanding schedule vital to the
business operations, and requiring him to travel would disrupt his ability to
fulfill critical duties.  Regency also
contends that it and Berardi have elected to have this deposition take place
remotely pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 2025.310(a).  (Declaration of Philip Berardi in Support of
Motion to Quash re Berardi, ¶¶ 3-4.) 
Berardi contends that he is willing to be deposed, both in his
individual capacity and as Regency’s PMQ, but requests that the deposition take
place remotely without the necessity of travelling to Riverside County.  (Id., ¶ 5.)
 
In
opposition, the City points out that rather than providing the City with alternative
deposition dates for Mr. Kennedy’s deposition upon receipt of the deposition
notice on May 20, 2024, Regency waited until two hours before filing this
motion on June 24, 2024 to do so, which was the evening before Mr. Kennedy’s
June 25, 2024 deposition.  The City
claims that it accepted the other date Regency offered, July 15, 2024, and has
since noticed Mr. Kennedy’s deposition to take place that day via remote means
in consideration of Regency’s representation regarding Kennedy’s health.  (Declaration of Andrew Saghian in Support of
Opposition to Motion to Quash re Kennedy, ¶ 16.)         As
for Berardi’s deposition, the City contends that it offered to depose Berardi
within 75 miles of his residence, but that Regency provided no response to the
City’s offer and request for an address to determine potential deposition
locations.  (Declaration of Andrew
Saghian in Support of Opposition to Motion to Quash re Berardi, ¶¶ 10-11.)  The City also argues that it is not required
to depose Berardi remotely. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.310 provides that a person may take, and any
person other than the deponent may attend, a deposition by telephone or other
remote electronic means.  The court may
expressly provide that a nonparty deponent may appear at his or her deposition
by telephone if it finds there is good cause and no prejudice to any party.  “Subject to Section 2025.420, any party or
attorney of record may, but is not required to, be physically present at the
deposition at the location of the deponent.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 2025.310, subd. (b).)  The plain language of section 2025.310
provides that a party or attorney of record “may, but is not required to, be
physically present”.  Thus, the statute
does not provide any language to establish that a remote deposition is
impermissible.  
 
The
Local Rules also provide that reasonable consideration is to be given to
accommodating schedules.  (Los Angeles
Superior Court Local Rules, Appendix 3.A, Guidelines for Civility in
Litigation, subsection (e)(2) [“In scheduling depositions, reasonable
consideration should be given to accommodating schedules or opposing counsel
and of the deponent, where it is possible to do so without prejudicing the
client’s rights.”].)  
 
In
view of the foregoing, the Court finds that there is good cause and that the
City will suffer no prejudice by allowing Kennedy and Berardi’s remote
depositions.  The Motions to Quash are
GRANTED to the extent that remote depositions are requested.  Considering that trial in this case is
currently set for October 2024, the City and Regency are ordered to meet and
confer within five days from the date of this Order in order to select a
mutually agreeable date for Kennedy and Birardi’s remote depositions, which
shall take place within twenty days of this Order.
 
Relevance
All
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Pro. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Super. Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial,
or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) The
burden is on the party seeking constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.  (Harris v. Super. Ct. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)
 
Regency
contends that Topics Nos. 1-5, 7-19, 22-23, and 25-27 and Requests for
Production Nos. 1-25 in the Amended Notice are improper because they fail to
identify the testimony sought with reasonable particularity, and are overly
broad, unduly burdensome, particularly in light of the limited claims remaining
in this case.  Specifically, Regency
argues that the City’s deposition topics broadly seek testimony regarding
“[t]he DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT,” “[t]he THIRD AMENDMENT,” “[t]he BILLBOARDS” and “[a]ny
and all COMMUNICATIONS” between Regency and the City relating to these matters,
without specifying what particular testimony is being sought.  Regency contends that these types of Topics
are vastly overbroad in light of the two remaining claims pending in this case.  While the City is now only pursuing breach of
contract claims against Regency, the Court finds that these claims directly relate
to Regency’s alleged failure to remove the billboards.  Thus, the deposition topics are relevant
and/or calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
Accordingly,
the Motion to Quash re Regency’s PMQ is DENIED to the extent it seeks an order
precluding the City from pursuing Topics Nos. 1-5, 7-19, 22-23, and 25-27 and
Requests for Production Nos. 1-25.
 
Sanctions
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc.
section 2025.410, subd. (d).)
 
Both
parties are requesting monetary sanctions against each other. Because of what
appears to be a lack of cooperation from both sides during meet-and-confer
efforts, circumstances exist that make sanctions unjust.  The Court does not find that monetary
sanctions are warranted in this case.  Therefore,
no monetary sanctions are imposed. 
 
Accordingly,
the Motions to Quash are GRANTED in part, and DENIED in part. All requests for
sanctions are DENIED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



