 Case Number:  23STCV25326    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




PATRICK MOLLOY,
  etc., et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CAREY HELLMAN, etc., et al.,
                                                                              
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 231STCV25326
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
Date: July 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Carey Hellman dba Hellman Associates (“Hellman”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs 
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action was
filed on October 17, 2023 and arises out of construction work performed by
Defendant Hellman on Plaintiffs’ duplex (the “Project”).  The proposal for the Project was presented by
Hellman to Plaintiffs on December 10, 2022. (Complaint, para. 6.)  Hellman performed work on the Project from January
6 to April, 2023.  (Complaint, para. 12.)  Plaintiffs allege that “After some of [the allegedly
deficient work] came to light, [Plaintiffs] learned that Hellman’s contractor’s
license with the Contractor’s State License Board (‘CSLB’) was inactive or had
lapsed.  They further discovered that
some of the subcontractors Hellman hired for the work were also not licensed.”  (Complaint, para. 16.)  
 
The
Complaint alleges causes of action for Breach of Implied-In-Fact Contract; 2)
Negligence; 3) Breach of Implied Warranty; 4) Disgorgement Per Bus. & Prof.
Code (“B&PC”) §7031; 5) Unfair Business Practices Per B&PC § 17200, et
seq.; and 6) Fraud.  All of these
causes of action rely, among other things, on Plaintiffs’ allegation that
Hellman was an unlicensed contractor at the time he performed work on the
Project.  
On
December 22, 2023, Defendant Hellman filed his demurrer to the Fourth, Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action of the Complaint.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice of a copy of a Contractor’s License naming Hellman
and dated January 1982 is DENIED.  This
is not an official record of the status of Hellman’s license at the time of his
work on the Project.  
The
Court does, however, accept the Declaration of Christopher L. Mass, Esq. in
Support of Opposition to Demurrer (“Mass Decl.”), which provides the foundation
for the record of the status of Hellman’s contractor’s license since November
1, 2009.  This document evidences that Defendant’s
license was not active during the period of time that Defendant was working on
the Project.
 


 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for Demurrer
 
            Fourth Cause of Action
            Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action
for Disgorgement is not a valid cause of action because it is based on the
allegation that Defendant was not licensed while working on the Project, whereas
Defendant “possessed a contractor’s license during the entire construction project.”  
 
Defendant’s
purported evidence of his initial licensure in 1983 does not, however, support
his contention that he was actively licensed when he worked on the Project.[1]  The evidence supplied by the Mass Declaration
shows that Defendant was not actively licensed during his work on the Project.
 
            Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action of the
Complaint is therefore OVERRULED.          
            
            Fifth Cause of Action
            Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for
violation of the B&PC Section 17200 for Unfair Business Practices depends
upon his position that he was not in violation of the CSLB rules for contractor
licensing at the time he performed work on the Project.  As indicated above, the Court does not accept
Defendant’s position that he was licensed throughout his work on the
Project.  Even if he were so licensed,
which apparently he was not, the allegation that his subcontractors were also
not licensed would provide all necessary support for an Unfair Business Practices
claim. (Complaint, para. 16.)  
 
            Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action of the
Complaint is therefore OVERRULED.
 
            Sixth Cause of Action
            Defendant’s Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action for Fraud
is also based upon the premise that Defendant was properly licensed throughout
the time he worked on the Project. 
Defendant has not established that this is the case and, for that
reason, the Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
                                                                                    Dated
this 30th day of July 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 





