  Case Number:  23TRCV03934    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: August 2, 2024CASE NUMBER: 23TRCV03934CASE NAME: Leorna Shevorna Johnson v. Herbert H. Buehler, et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Herbert H. Buehler, an individual and Trustee of the Buehler Family Trust date February 6, 2015, Rosemarie Buehler, an individual and Trustee of the Rosemarie Buehler Family Trust, dated April 9, 2022, Lois BrowRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Leorna Shevorna Johnson (No Opposition)TRIAL DATE: July 14, 2025MOTION: (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One(2) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories(3) Request for SanctionsTentative Rulings: (1) GRANTED. Further verified responses ordered by 8/23/24(2) GRANTED in part and requires oral argument in part.(3) Need clarification from DefendantsI. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn November 27, 2023, Plaintiff, Leorna Shevorna Johnson (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant, Herbert H. Buehler, individually and Trustee of the Buehler Family Trust date February 6, 2015, Rosemarie Buehler, an individual and Trustee of the Rosemarie Buehler Family Trust, dated April 9, 2022, Lois Brow, an individual, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability; (4) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (5) Private Nuisance; (6) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; and (7) Violation of the UCL.On February 29, 2024, Defendants propounded discovery on Plaintiff, including Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One. On May 15, 2024, following an agreed-upon extension, Defendants contend that Plaintiff served verified responses to the written discovery requests. Defendants note that on June 10, 2024, after review of Plaintiff’s responses, Defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to counsel for Plaintiff regarding multiple deficient responses and requested supplemental responses on or before June 24, 2024. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension to July 1, 2024 for supplemental responses. Defensecounsel agreed with the caveat that the motion to compel deadline be extended to July 1, 2024. However, Defendants assert that supplemental responses were not received on July 1, 2024. On July 8, 2024, defense counsel followed up on the supplemental responses. Defendants further note that at the time they filed these motions, defense counsel has not received supplemental responses or any further communication from Plaintiff’s counsel.As such, Defendants have brought this motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One.B. ProceduralOn July 8, 2024, Defendants filed these motions to compel further. To date, no opposition brief has been filed. On July 24, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of non-receipt of Plaintiff’s opposition brief.II. ANALYSISA. Motion to Compel FurtherLegal StandardA party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411Code of Civil Procedure section §2031.310(a) provides in pertinent part: “On receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the party demanding an inspection may move for an order compelling a further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete…. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” Further, if the responding party objects to an inspection demand, the response must “identify with particularity” any document or thing failing within any category in the demand to which the objection is made and set forth the specific ground for objection. (Code Civ. Proc. §2031.240(b).) A statement of inability to comply must also (1) affirm a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made, (2) that the inability to comply is because the responsive item has never existed, has been destroyed, lost, misplaced or stolen, or has never been or is no longer in the responding party’s possession, custody, or control. (Code Civ. Proc. §2031.230.) The statement must also set forth the name and address of the person or organization believed to have possession, custody or control of the item. Finally, if any documents are withheld pursuant to a claimed privilege, the responding party must ‘(A) identify with particularity [the] document…, and (B) set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection…, the particular privilege…[and] if an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work product [under Section 2018.010], that claim shall be expressly asserted.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(b).)Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set OneDefendants have filed this motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories, set one to compel further responses to form interrogatories, nos. 8.1-8.8. Defendants contend that these interrogatories request various information regarding Plaintiff’s claims for loss of income and earning capacity. However, in response to each of these interrogatories, Plaintiff responded “unknown at this time.” Defendants note that Plaintiff was a tenant at the subject property from August 25, 2020 through December 14, 2023, and thus, should have information in her possession regarding any time taken off work or any loss in her ability to earn income that is the result of conditions alleged to have occurred during her tenancy by this time. Moreover, Defendants also assert that Plaintiff’s document production included a copy of an FMLA application.The court has reviewed Defendants’ arguments and agrees that Plaintiff’s responses do not comply with the requirements of sections 2030.210, et seq. Certainly, if Plaintiff is claiming loss of income and earning capacity due to a condition alleged to have occurred during her tenancy, Defendants should be able to assess how much income or earning capacity was affected by the alleged conditions suffered during Plaintiff’s tenancy. Accordingly, the court GRANTS the motion and ORDERS Plaintiff to provide complete, substantive, verified further responses to these interrogatories by August 23, 2024.Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set OneDefendants have also filed a motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories, set one to compel further responses to special interrogatories, nos. 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 24, 28, 34, 50, and 51. Defendants contend that special interrogatories nos. 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 28, and 34 request Plaintiff state all facts that support her claims. However, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s responses are evasive, nonresponsive, insufficient, and merely regurgitate conclusory theories of liability, but do not provide any specific facts supporting her claims or damages. The Court agrees that most of the responses lack the detailed factual presentation plaintiff would be expected to provide if they were testifying at trial, and which should be provided in pre-trial discovery. The responses reflect a lack of effort, focus and detailed presentation of facts that reasonable discovery responses should provide, and thus the Court will be ordering further substantive and more detailed responses.As an initial example, Defendants provide Plaintiff’s response to special interrogatory no. 1, which does show that Plaintiff appears to respond with legal conclusion, however Plaintiff also responds with facts which she included in her complaint. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s response is merely a rewording of the boilerplate allegations and legal conclusions alleged in the complaint, and that no actual facts were asserted.While the responses are similar to the allegations in the complaint, this does not per se indicate that they are not “facts.” But missing from the responses are things such as dates, references to letters or emails addressing notification by a plaintiff to a defendant of a specific problem, or of a doctor visit for the medical injury that plaintiffs claim was caused or worsened by the alleged misconduct. This is the type of detail the Court would expect in a further response.As another example, the response to special interrogatory no. 4 addresses the facts supporting Plaintiff’s intentional infliction of emotional distress claim. Normally the response would include specifics as to the extreme and outrageous conduct alleged, i.e., the failure of defendants to even respond to an emailed photograph on a specific date of rodent bites on a child, or a reference to photographs or videos taken by plaintiffs of unsanitary conditions, etc. No such details are provided; plaintiff must either provide such details or be subject to exclusion of evidence at trial of facts that were known as July 2024 but were not provided in response to such a special interrogatory. One additional example would be as to the response to interrogatory no. 34, which fails to include a basis in fact for recovering attorneys’ fees, i.e., a contract with an attorney fee provision or a statute that provides for prevailing party attorney’s fees.Further, Defendants contend that special interrogatories nos. 50 and 51 request Plaintiff to state all facts detailing “communications” between plaintiff and defendant or any other person. Plaintiff objected to both of these requests as oppressive, burdensome, vague ambiguous, and unintelligible. The Court somewhat agrees with Plaintiff’s objections, but no genuine effort appears to have been made to detail the burden involved. Were there 1,000 emails between the parties about the subject property, or only a handful? Were there weekly discussions about repair and habitability issues, or only a couple. The Court will entertain oral argument as to the scope and burden objections to see what type of further response, if any, should be ordered.B. SanctionsAdditionally, Defendants has requested monetary sanctions in connection with both of its motions to compel further responses. For both the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Defendants have requested monetary sanctions as imposed on Plaintiff and her counsel of record in the amount of $896 ($1,792 total for the 2 motions.) However, the Court is confused because the conclusion of Defendants’ motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories states that the amount requested is $582.50. As such, the Court requires clarification as to this discrepancy prior to awarding sanctions.The monetary sanctions requested are based on the declaration of defense counsel, Caitlin J. Hoffman (“Hoffman Decl.”) Hoffman notes that her hourly rate is $209, that she spent 1.5 hours preparing for this motion, anticipates spending 1.5 additional hours analyzing Plaintiff’s opposition and preparing a reply brief, and anticipates spending an additional 1 hour attending the hearing on this motion. (Hoffman Decl., ¶ 11.) Hoffman also notes that each motion required a $60 filing fee. (Hoffman Decl., ¶ 11.) Of course, no opposition brief was filed and thus, no reply brief was necessitated. As such, when Defendants explain the discrepancy present in the amounts requested for the special interrogatory motion, the amount awarded to Defendants would be in a lesser amount.