 Case Number:  23GDCV01994    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV01994
Hearing Date: 05/03/2024 – 8:30am   
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ROBERT TOROSIAN, an individual; MARINA
FERMANYAN, an individual; and ALOUST GREGORY TOROSIAN v. EDGAR MADATYAN, an
individual; ELVIS MADATYAN; an individual; GLENDALE FRENCH BAKERY, INC., dba
PAPILLON INTERNATIONAL BAKERY, a California corporation; LIANA YOZALYAN, an
individual; and DOES 1-100
 
[3 TENTATIVE RULINGS   - 3 DEMURRERS
WITH MOTIONS TO STRIKE]
DEMURRER 1
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant Elvis Madatyan moves for an order sustaining his demurrer to the
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Ninth Causes of Action of Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint (FAC) pursuant to CCP § 430.10.
BACKGROUND
An initial Complaint was
filed in this action on 9/19/2023. There was no demurrer hearing as to the
initial Complaint. 
The
FAC was filed on 2/2/2024.
The
instant action surrounds allegations that several Defendants plotted to
physically harm Plaintiff (Robert) because Robert discovered that one of the
Defendants was embezzling money from a business that Robert had substantial
interests in.  
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Elvis Madatyan
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Robert Torosian; Marina Fermanyan; Aloust Gregory Torosian
Moving Papers:
Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendant’s counsel alleges that he sent a meet and confer letter and sought to
schedule a time to discuss the issues in the pleadings. Defendant’s counsel
alleges that Plaintiffs’ counsel would not communicate. (See Shaghzo Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
TENTATIVE RULING – Third Cause of Action – Conspiracy to Commit
Assault and Battery
Defendant makes several
arguments as to why this cause of action was not alleged.
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs state:
Plaintiffs acknowledge that a conspiracy cannot be alleged as a tort
separate from the underlying wrong it is organized to achieve. In the present
instance, because the Second Cause of Action sufficiently asserts a claim for
battery and the Third Cause of Action sufficiently alleges the existence of a
civil conspiracy to facilitate the commission of that battery, the court should
grant leave for Plaintiffs to meld the Third Cause of Action into the Second
Cause of Action.
(Oppo.
p.2.)
Confusingly,
despite Plaintiffs conceding that conspiracy is not an independent tort,
Plaintiffs then argue for two pages as to why conspiracy was alleged. 
Further,
what is confusing is that Plaintiffs mention that they want to meld the third
cause of action (conspiracy to commit assault and battery) only with the second
cause of action (battery), despite the fact that the conspiracy cause of action
was directed at both assault and battery, not just battery.
There
is conflicting authority as to whether conspiracy is an independent tort.
However the Reply does not address this issue. The Reply just argues that
conspiracy was not alleged. Since Plaintiffs concede that this cause of action
is not an independent tort, the Court will SUSTAIN the demurrer to the third
cause of action with leave to amend.
Additionally,
since Plaintiffs appear to be requesting to meld it with the second cause of
action for battery, the Court will GRANT leave to amend as to the second cause
of action if the Plaintiffs are arguing that they plan to put the conspiracy
allegations in the second cause of action. 
Further,
for the purposes of judicial economy, since the conspiracy cause of action also
pertained to assault, the Court GRANTS leave to amend as to the first cause of
action, in the event that the Plaintiffs intend to still allege conspiracy as
to the assault cause of action. 
As
stated in City of Industry:
Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort. Instead, it is “a
legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually
committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common
plan or design in its perpetration. [Citation.] By participation in a
civil conspiracy, a coconspirator effectively adopts as his or her own the
torts of other coconspirators within the ambit of the conspiracy. [Citation.]
In this way, a coconspirator incurs tort liability co-equal with the immediate
tortfeasors.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 503, 510–511, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 475, 869 P.2d 454.) The elements of
a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more persons who
agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act
committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages. (Ibid.) We
construe the fifth count for fraud and the tenth count for conspiracy together
as a single count for fraud.
(City
of Industry v. City of Filmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211-212.)
TENTATIVE RULING – Fourth Cause of Action – Negligence
Defendant argues that this
cause of action is almost completely devoid of facts.
In
relevant part of the Opposition, Plaintiffs state, “Notwithstanding the legal
sufficiency of this cause of action, Plaintiffs concede that they could make
this cause of action more certain if granted leave to amend the Complaint so as
to plead negligence prior to pleading intentional misconduct and to assert
expressly that any cause of action for intentional wrongdoing is ‘in the
alternative.’” (Oppo. p. 5.)
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend.
TENTATIVE RULING – Fifth Cause of Action for Loss Of Consortium
The elements for loss of
consortium are: (1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the
person inured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the
plaintiff’s spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4)
the loss was proximately caused by the defendant’s act. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 746, fn. 2.)
The
FAC alleges:
38. Plaintiffs re-allege and incorporate by reference the
allegations of the above paragraphs as though fully set forth herein. 
39. At all times relevant herein, ROBERT and MARINA, were, and now
are, husband and wife. 
40. As a direct and proximate result of the acts alleged against
Defendants and Elda, and the resulting injuries sustained by ROBERT, MARINA has
suffered a loss of consortium, including the loss of love, companionship,
comfort, are, assistance, society, moral support and affection of ROBERT.
MARINA has also suffered the loss of enjoyment of her sexual relations with
ROBERT. 
41. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ and Elda’s
acts as alleged above, MARINA has sustained severe physical and emotional harm,
thereby entitling her to damages in a sum certain according to proof at trial
in excess of this court’s minimum jurisdictional limit.
(FAC
¶¶ 38-41.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs don’t allege facts that Elvis proximately caused a
tortious injury to Marina’s spouse, Robert. Defendant argues that Edgar shot
Robert, not Elvis. Defendant argues that Elvis never committed a tortious
injury to Robert.
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue:
The First Amended Complaint incorporates by reference the
preceding forty paragraphs of the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs freely
acknowledge that the First Amended Complaint does not allege that any person
other than Edgar put a gun to Robert Torosian’s head and pulled the trigger.
The prior allegations do, however, more than suffice to allege a civil
conspiracy to murder Marina Fermanyan’s husband and resulting damages peculiar
to Marina in the form of loss of consortium which she suffered.
(Oppo. p. 5-6.)
In Reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs admit
that the FAC does not allege that any person other than Edgar put a gun to
Robert’s head and pulled the trigger. Reply argues that Plaintiffs do not
dispute that the FAC alleges no facts that Elvis proximately caused a tortious
injury to Marina’s spouse Robert.
Reply also argues that Plaintiffs try to get
around this pleading deficiency by suggesting that their fifth cause of action
is supported by their claim for conspiracy. Reply also argues the Plaintiffs
have not pleaded a conspiracy to cause a loss of consortium.
The Court will hear argument. The parties do not
address each other’s arguments. Further, to the extent that Plaintiffs argue
that they alleged a civil conspiracy, Plaintiffs themselves previously argued
for leave to amend as to the conspiracy cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING – Sixth (IIED) and Seventh
(Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress) Causes of Action  
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs fail to plead any conduct by Elvis that could support a
claim for IIED, let alone extreme conduct with the requisite specificity.
Defendant attempts to frame the FAC as if the only thing Plaintiffs alleged
that Elvis did was yell profanities at Robert, and that insults and threats do
not support an IIED claim.
The
Court finds Defendant’s arguments unavailing because Defendant fails to cite
other allegations in the FAC that could support this claim.
A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when
there is (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention
of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050.)
Element 1
The
first element of IIED is “extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress.”
Defendant
only attacks the first element of this cause of action.
A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’ ” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035,1050-1051.) 
“Regarding
emotional distress, the trial court initially determines whether a defendant's
conduct may reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as to permit
recovery. Where reasonable men can differ, the jury determines whether the
conduct has been extreme and outrageous to result in liability. Otherwise
stated, the court determines whether severe emotional distress can be found;
the jury determines whether on the evidence it has, in fact, existed.” (Plotnik
v. Meihaus (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1614 citing Godfrey v.
Steinpress (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 154, 173.) 
Here,
Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged this element against Defendant. 
On
page 4 of the FAC on the sixth bullet point from the top of the page,
Plaintiffs alleged that Elvis and Edgar discussed and planned the murder of
Robert. Further, the first bullet point after ¶ 18 alleges that Elvis attacked
Robert and his brother at Los Angeles Superior Court and yelled profanities and
made threats to kill Robert and his brother. 
Further,
¶42 alleges that Defendant intended to and did cause extreme emotional distress.
While
Defendant doesn’t address the second and third elements of this claim,
Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged these elements in ¶¶ 42-45 of the FAC.
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action for IIED is OVERRULED.
As
to the seventh cause of action, Defendant argues that Negligent Infliction of
emotional distress is not an independent tort, and the tort is negligence. 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue:
This Seventh Cause of Action is now asserted only by Robert and
Gregory, both of whom were present when Edgar shot Robert. That having been
said, Plaintiffs seek leave to meld this cause of with the Sixth Cause of
Action so as to expressly encompass damages for simple emotional distress.
(Oppo. p.7.)
Since Plaintiffs seem to concede there is no
seventh cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress and seek
to meld the allegations with the IIED claim in the sixth cause of action, the Demurrer
to the Seventh Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
While the Court OVERRULED the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action, Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend to the sixth cause of
action to the extent that Plaintiffs seek to add allegations to the sixth cause
of action.
Ninth Cause of Action – Aiding and Abetting
Assault and Battery
As stated in Stueve
Bros. Farms, LLC:
“Liability may also be imposed on one who aids and abets the
commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in
accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person. [Citations.]” (Saunders
v. Superior Court, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p. 846, 33 Cal.Rptr.2d
438; accord, Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144, 26 Cal.Rptr.3d 401.) “Despite some conceptual
similarities, civil liability for aiding and abetting the commission of a tort,
which has no overlaid requirement of an independent duty, differs fundamentally
from liability based on conspiracy to commit a tort. [Citations.] ‘
“[A]iding-abetting focuses on whether a defendant knowingly gave ‘substantial
assistance’ to someone who performed wrongful conduct, not on whether the defendant
agreed to join the wrongful conduct.” ’ ” (Berg & Berg
Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc., supra, 131
Cal.App.4th at p. 823, fn. 10, 32 Cal.Rptr.3d 325.)
(Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 303, 324.)
As
a preliminary matter, Defendant does not state what elements must be alleged
for this cause of action.
Instead,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ sole allegation that Elvis aided and abetted
Edgar by providing information to Edgar about the whereabouts of Robert are
contradicted by Plaintiffs’ allegation that Elda, Liana, and Papillon employees
were the ones tracking Robert.
The
Court finds Defendant’s argument about the allegations being contradictory and
inconsistent to be speculative and unavailing. 
Further,
Defendant’s arguments on causation are unavailing. 
Plaintiffs’
allegations against Defendant in ¶¶ 55-60, along with the allegations ¶¶ 15 -18
appear to be sufficient. 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action for aiding and abetting assault and
battery is OVERRULED.
MOTION TO STRIKE 1 
Moving Party:  Defendant, Elvis Madatyan
Responding Party: No
Opposition by Plaintiffs
Moving Papers: Motion to
Strike
Opposition Papers: No
Opposition by Plaintiffs
Reply Papers: No Reply
by Defendant
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Elvis Madatyan, moves to strike: the
demand for "punitive damages" and "attorney fees" from the
First, Third, Sixth, and Ninth Causes of Action and in the Prayer for Relief.
(FAC, at ¶¶ 23, 28, 35,45, 54, 60, pg. 14:16-18.)
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Same analysis as
Demurrer 1.
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the grounds that a
complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, but
instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive allegations, or
improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528-29.)   
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc.
§ 437; Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth”].)   
Further, CCP §431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material
allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which
could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient as to
that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial
allegation in a pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation
that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense.
(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial
allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 

LEGAL STANDARD – Punitive Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(a).) 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).) 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights. (CCP §3294(c)(2).) 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Tentative Ruling Motion to Strike 1
As
a preliminary matter, Defendant does not make any argument as to why attorney’s
fees should be stricken.
As to punitive damages being stricken, Defendant
simply cites general case law and statutes on punitive damages and says that
the punitive damages requests should be stricken because they are devoid of
facts supporting punitive damages. Defendant does not make any arguments with
respect to any individual cause of action or with respect to a specific Paragraph
that it seeks to strike.
Request to strike ¶ 23 is DENIED. Defendant did not
demur to this cause of action (first cause of action). Further, Plaintiffs
alleged sufficient facts for a jury to potentially find punitive damages to be
warranted.
Request to strike ¶ 28 is DENIED for the same reasons
explained with respect to ¶ 23.
Request to strike ¶ 35 is GRANTED with leave to amend
granted because the demurrer to the third cause of action was sustained with
leave to amend granted.
Request to strike ¶45 is DENIED because the demurrer
to the sixth cause of action was OVERRULED.
Request to strike ¶54 is GRANTED because vicarious
liability does not appear to be a cause of action, therefore the Court is
unclear how one can request punitive damages against a theory of liability.
Request to strike ¶60 is DENIED because the demurrer
to the ninth cause of action was OVERRULED.
Defendant’s request to strike the request for punitive
damages in the prayer for relief mentioning the first, sixth, and ninth causes
of action is DENIED.
Defendant’s request to strike the request for punitive
damages in the prayer for relief mentioning the third cause of action is
GRANTED with leave to amend because the demurrer to the third cause of action
was sustained with leave to amend.
DEMURRER 2
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Liana Gyozalyan, pursuant to CCP § 430.10 demurs to the FAC of
Plaintiffs Robert Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, Galoust Gregory Torosian, and
Hakop Jack Torosian. 
Liana demurs to the
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action
pursuant to CCP § 430.10(e) &(f) on grounds of failure to state sufficient
facts and uncertainty.  
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
Footnote 1 on page 2 of
the demurrer states, “Defendants note that Plaintiff, Hakop Jack Torosian is
not listed as a named plaintiff in the First Amended complaint. However, Hakop
Jack Torosian has made an appearance as a plaintiff and no dismissal has been
filed. As such, to the extent that the First Amended Complaint includes Hakop
Jack Torosian, Defendants’ motion to strike includes his claims as well.”
The 4/4/2024 Minute
Order states, “At the request of Defendant Glendale French Bakery, Defendant
Hakop Jack Torosian is dismissed this date.” (4/4/2024 Min. Order, p.1.)  The Court will discuss this issue with the
parties.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Liana Gyozalyan
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Robert Torosian,
Marina Fermanyan, and Aloust Gregory Torosian
Moving Papers: Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Omnibus Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure to sufficiently
meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here, counsel met and
conferred. (See Fuentes Decl. ¶ 6.)
ANALYSIS
TENTATIVE RULING – Third
Cause of Action – Conspiracy to Commit Assault and Battery
As explained in Demurrer
1, since Plaintiffs concede that the third cause of action is not an
independent tort, the Court will SUSTAIN the demurrer to the third cause of
action with leave to amend granted.
Additionally, since
Plaintiffs appear to be requesting to meld it with the second cause of action
for battery, the Court will GRANT leave to amend as to the second cause of
action if the Plaintiffs are arguing that they plan to put the conspiracy
allegations in the second cause of action. Further, for the purposes of
judicial economy, since the conspiracy cause of action also pertained to
assault, the Court GRANTS leave to amend as to the first cause of action just
in case the Plaintiffs intend to still allege conspiracy as to the assault
cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING –
Fourth Cause of Action – Negligence
Based on the reasoning
explained in Demurrer 1, Defendant’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligence is SUSTAINED with leave to amend granted.
TENTATIVE RULING – Fifth
Cause of Action for Loss Of Consortium
The elements for loss of
consortium are: (1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the
person inured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the
plaintiff’s spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4)
the loss was proximately caused by the defendant’s act. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 746, fn. 2.)
The FAC alleges:
38. Plaintiffs re-allege
and incorporate by reference the allegations of the above paragraphs as though
fully set forth herein. 
39. At all times
relevant herein, ROBERT and MARINA, were, and now are, husband and wife. 
40. As a direct and
proximate result of the acts alleged against Defendants and Elda, and the
resulting injuries sustained by ROBERT, MARINA has suffered a loss of
consortium, including the loss of love, companionship, comfort, are,
assistance, society, moral support and affection of ROBERT. MARINA has also
suffered the loss of enjoyment of her sexual relations with ROBERT. 
41. As a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ and Elda’s acts as alleged above, MARINA has
sustained severe physical and emotional harm, thereby entitling her to damages
in a sum certain according to proof at trial in excess of this court’s minimum
jurisdictional limit.
(FAC ¶¶ 38-41.)
Here, Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs lack a viable claim against Defendant for any
tort. However, Plaintiffs successfully alleged, at the very least, the ninth
cause of action for aiding and abetting assault and battery against Defendant.
Further, Defendant makes
several arguments that are difficult to follow, are not supported with legal
authority, and attempt to go outside the pleadings.
Plaintiffs appear to
allege the elements of this cause of action in ¶¶38 – 41 as well as in ¶¶ 15 -18.
Defendant’s demurrer to
the Fifth Cause of Action for Loss of Consortium is OVERRULED. 
TENTATIVE RULING – Sixth
(IIED) and Seventh (Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress) Causes of
Action  
A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)
A defendant’s conduct is
‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must be
‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will
result.’ ” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,1050-1051.) 
“Regarding emotional
distress, the trial court initially determines whether a defendant's conduct
may reasonably be regarded as so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.
Where reasonable men can differ, the jury determines whether the conduct has
been extreme and outrageous to result in liability. Otherwise stated, the court
determines whether severe emotional distress can be found; the jury determines
whether on the evidence it has, in fact, existed.” (Plotnik v. Meihaus
(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1614 citing Godfrey v. Steinpress (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 154, 173.) 
Here, Defendant argues
that Defendant did not direct any conduct toward Plaintiffs. 
Defendant’s argument is
unavailing. 
Plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged this cause of action based on ¶¶ 15-18 and ¶¶ 42-45 of the FAC.
Defendant’s demurrer to
the Sixth Cause of Action for IIED is OVERRULED.
As to the seventh cause
of action, the Court will hear argument. In Demurrer 1, the demurring Defendant
in Demurrer 1 pointed to case law that stated negligent infliction of emotional
distress is not an independent tort, and that it is the tort of negligence. 
In Opposition to
Demurrer 1, Plaintiffs conceded that there is no independent tort for negligent
infliction of emotional distress. Further, the Court sustained the demurrer to
the seventh cause of action without leave to amend and granted leave to
amend to the sixth cause of action because the Plaintiffs sought to meld the
seventh cause of action with the sixth cause of action. Confusingly, in
Opposition to this motion, Plaintiffs argue that they alleged a cause of action
for negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
The Court will hear
argument as to the seventh cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING – Eighth
Cause of Action for Vicarious Liability
Defendant, Liana, demurs
to the eighth cause of action for vicarious liability.
As a preliminary matter,
the Court is unclear how vicarious liability is even a cause of action. It
seems to be a theory of liability, not an independent cause of action.
The general rule of
respondeat superior is as follows, “an employer is vicariously liable for the
torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment.” (Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 298.)
Shockingly, Defendant
does not bring up the argument that vicarious liability is likely not a cause
of action.
Further, just as
confusing is the fact that the eighth cause of action isn’t even alleged
against demurring Defendant, Liana. Therefore, it is unclear why Liana demurred
to a cause of action that is directed only at Papillon.
Either way, the demurrer
to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED, as will be explained in the tentative
ruling to the eighth cause of action in Demurrer 3.
Ninth Cause of Action –
Aiding and Abetting Assault and Battery
As stated in Stueve
Bros. Farms, LLC:
“Liability may also be
imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the
person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person. [Citations.]” (Saunders v. Superior Court, supra, 27
Cal.App.4th at p. 846, 33 Cal.Rptr.2d 438; accord, Casey v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144, 26 Cal.Rptr.3d 401.)
“Despite some conceptual similarities, civil liability for aiding and abetting
the commission of a tort, which has no overlaid requirement of an independent
duty, differs fundamentally from liability based on conspiracy to commit a
tort. [Citations.] ‘ “[A]iding-abetting focuses on whether a defendant
knowingly gave ‘substantial assistance’ to someone who performed wrongful
conduct, not on whether the defendant agreed to join the wrongful conduct.” ’ ”
(Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc.,
supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at p. 823, fn. 10, 32 Cal.Rptr.3d 325.)
(Stueve Bros. Farms,
LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 324.)
As to this cause of
action, Defendant simply argues about the sufficiency of the evidence.
Defendant’s arguments are outside the scope of demurrer. Defendant does not explain
how this cause of action is not sufficiently alleged.
Defendant’s demurrer to
the Ninth Cause of Action for aiding and abetting assault and battery is
OVERRULED.

MOTION TO STRIKE 2
Moving Party:  Defendant, Liana Gyozalyan
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Robert Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, Aloust Gregory Torosian
Moving Papers: Motion to
Strike
Opposition Papers: Confusingly,
one opposition was filed after the motion to strike was filed, then, another
opposition was filed after the reply was filed.
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Liana Gyozalyan, pursuant to CCP §§
435 and 436, moves for an order striking all references to claims for punitive
damages against Defendant.
Defendant specifically
moves to strike portions:
1. Paragraph 40, page
10, lines 1-4: In doing the things alleged, Defendants acted with malice, fraud
and oppression, thereby entitling ROBERT to an award of punitive damages in a
sum certain according to proof at trial and sufficient to punish Defendants and
make an example of them and to deter others from acting as Defendants did.
2. Paragraph 55, page
12, lines 1-4: In doing the things alleged, Defendants acted with malice, fraud
and oppression, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to an award of punitive damages in
a sum certain according to proof at trial and sufficient to punish Defendants
and make an example of them and to deter others from acting as Defendants did.
3. Paragraph 64, page
13, lines 17-21: In doing the things alleged, Defendants acted with malice,
fraud and oppression, thereby entitling ROBERT to an award of punitive damages
in a sum certain according to proof at trial and sufficient to punish
Defendants and make an example of them and to deter others from acting as
Defendants did.
4. Paragraph 69, page
14, lines 14-17: In doing the things alleged, Defendants acted with malice,
fraud and oppression, thereby entitling ROBERT to an award of punitive damages
in a sum certain according to proof at trial and sufficient to punish
Defendants and make an example of them and to deter others from acting as
Defendants did.
5. Prayer for Damages,
page 14, lines 26-27: For punitive damages in sum certain according to proof
and sufficient to punish and make an example of Defendants.
6. Prayer for Damages,
Paragraph 3, page 15 lines 2-3: For costs of suit, including reasonable
attorney’s fees as may be allowed by case or statutory law or by agreement of
the parties.
7. And any other
reference or claim for punitive damages against Defendants contained in the
First Amended Complaint.
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP § 435.5(a).)
Same analysis as
Demurrer 2.
Tentative Ruling Motion to Strike 2
Opposition
correctly notes how the language requested to strike for each portion does not
match up with the paragraphs that Defendant alleges each paragraph states. Plaintiffs
thus argue they cannot meaningfully respond. 
The Reply argues that this error was not prejudicial;
however, the Court finds this argument unavailing as the newly cited paragraphs
that Defendant seeks to strike in Reply are not close numerically to the prior
portions sought to be stricken. It appears valid that Plaintiffs could not
meaningfully respond. Some of the paragraphs that Defendant sought to strike don’t
even exist, like 69 and 64, because the FAC ends at ¶ 60.
Further in Reply, Defendant requests the Court to
continue the hearing and incorporating ¶¶ 1-6 in the Reply into the instant
motion and allow a substantive opposition to be filed and heard on the merits.
Reply also requests in the alternative to file an amended motion to strike
within 10 days. 
The Court’s inclination is to grant leave to amend,
but the Court will hear from the parties.
DEMURRER 3
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Glendale French Bakery, Inc. dba Papillon International Bakery
(“Papillon”), pursuant to CCP § 430.10 demurs to the FAC of Plaintiffs Robert
Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, Galoust Gregory Torosian, and Hakop Jack Torosian. 
Papillon
demurs to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of
action pursuant to CCP § 430.10(e) &(f) on grounds of failure to state
sufficient facts and uncertainty.  
¶4,
7, 9, P18
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
Footnote 1 on page 2 of
the demurrer states, “Defendants note that Plaintiff, Hakop Jack Torosian is
not listed as a named plaintiff in the First Amended complaint. However, Hakop
Jack Torosian has made an appearance as a plaintiff and no dismissal has been
filed. As such, to the extent that the First Amended Complaint includes Hakop
Jack Torosian, Defendants’ motion to strike includes his claims as well.”
The
4/4/2024 Minute Order states, “At the request of Defendant Glendale French
Bakery, Defendant Hakop Jack Torosian is dismissed this date.” (4/4/2024 Min.
Order, p.1.)
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Papillon
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Robert Torosian, Marina Fermanyan, and Aloust Gregory Torosian
Moving Papers:
Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Omnibus
Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
counsel met and conferred. (See Fuentes Decl. ¶ 6.)
TENTATIVE RULING
As a preliminary matter,
it is not entirely clear why Defendant, Papillon, is demurring to the third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action. The only
cause of action alleged against Papillon is the eighth cause of action for
vicarious liability. 
Defendant’s
demurrer here was filed by the same counsel for Defendant Liana and asserts the
same exact arguments that the demurrer for Liana asserted.
One
aspect that Papillon’s demurrer appears to forget is that Papillon can still be
held liable for other employees’ actions other than Liana, such as Elda, who
isn’t a named Defendant. Defendant’s demurrer is written as if Liana’s actions
are the only individual’s actions who are relevant with respect to holding
Papillon liable.
As
to the eighth cause of action for vicarious liability, the Court has serious
concerns if vicarious liability is even a cause of action. The general rule of
respondeat superior is as follows, “an employer is vicariously liable for the
torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment.” (Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995)
It
appears that vicarious liability is a theory as to how hold a principal liable
for the actions of its agent, not a specific cause of action.
However,
“It has long been established that in ruling on a demurrer, the trial court is
obligated to look past the form of a pleading to its substance. Erroneous or
confusing labels attached by the inept pleader are to be ignored if the
complaint pleads facts which would entitled the plaintiff to relief.” (Saunders
v. Cariss (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 905, 908.)
Therefore,
to the extent that Liana (demurring Defendant in Demurrer 2), and Papillon
(demurring Defendant in Demurrer 3) argue that vicarious liability was not
sufficiently alleged, the Court does not find this argument availing.
The
general rule of respondeat superior is as follows, “an employer is
vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of
the employment.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995)
12 Cal.4th 291, 298.) 
Further,
to this Court, it appears as if respondeat superior is codified by
statute. Under Civil Code § 2338, “Unless required by or under the authority of
law to employ that particular agent, a principal is responsible to third
persons for the negligence of his agent in the transaction of the business of
the agency, including wrongful acts committed by such agent in and as a part of
the transaction of such business, and for his willful omission to fulfill the
obligations of the principal.” (Civil Code § 2338.) 
Under
Civil Code § 2330, “An agent represents his principal for all purposes within
the scope of his actual or ostensible authority, and all the rights and
liabilities which would accrue to the agent from transactions within such
limit, if they had been entered into on his own account, accrue to the
principal.” (Civil Code § 2330.)
Further,
the case of Michelson v. Hamada helps explain the principal of agency:
Civil Code section 2295 states: “An agent
is one who represents another, called the principal, in dealings with third
persons. Such representation is called agency.” (3) Any person may be authorized to act as an
agent, including an adverse party to a transaction. (See Naify v.
Pacific Indemnity Co. (1938) 11 Cal.2d 5, 7 [76 P.2d 663, 115
A.L.R. 476]; Orfanos v. California Insurance Co. (1938) 29
Cal.App.2d 75, 78-81 [84 P.2d 233]; 2 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law
(9th ed. 1987) Agency and Employment, § 33, p. 47.) “Whether a person
performing work for another is an agent ... depends primarily upon whether the
one for whom the work is done has the legal right to control the activities of
the alleged agent. [Citations.]” (Malloy v. Fong (1951) 37 Cal.2d
356, 370 [232 P.2d 241].) An agent is a fiduciary. (Kennard
v. Glick (1960) 183 Cal.App.2d 246, 250-251 [agent entrusted with
duty of receiving and disbursing moneys and keep- ing accurate records of the
transactions]; Estate of Arbuckle (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 562,
569-570 [220 P.2d 950, 23 A.L.R.2d 372] [business manager unable to
produce will entrusted to him]; 2 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law, supra,
Agency and Employment, §§ 41, 43 et seq., pp. 53, 55.) Agency may be implied
from the circumstances and conduct of the parties (see Bergtholdt v.
Porter Bros. Co. (1896) 114 Cal. 681, 685-688 [46 P. 738]; Brand
v. Mantor (1935) 6 Cal.App.2d 126, 130; Pollack v. Lytle (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d
931, 940; Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454,
464 [39 P.2d 877].) (4) When the principal in reliance on the agent
does not have the service performed by others, the agent is liable for failure
to perform. (See Lab. Code, § 2851; Poile v. Stockton Merchants
Assn. (1959) 176 Cal.App.2d 100, 104 [collection agency liable
for amount of check it failed to collect and was under duty to inform principal
of failure]; Rest.2d Agency, § 378; 2 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law, supra,
Agency and Employment, § 62, p. 68.) (5) A contract between parties that includes the
rendering of services does not preclude recovery for breach of a confidential
relationship where property is misappropriated. (Agair Inc. v. Shaeffer (1965)
232 Cal.App.2d 513, 517 [42 Cal.Rptr. 883].)
 
(Michelson v. Hamada (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1556, 1579-80.)
 
As
to alleging agency at the pleading stage, “An allegation of agency is an
allegation of ultimate fact that must be accepted as true for purposes of
ruling on a demurrer.” (City of Industry v. City of Filmore (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 191, 212-13.) “We have already noted, however, that an allegation
of agency as such is a statement of ultimate fact. Consequently further
allegations explaining how this fact of agency originated become unnecessary.”
(Skopp v. Weaver (1976) 16 Cal.3d 432, 439.)
 
Here,
vicarious liability is sufficiently alleged in the eighth cause of action from
¶ 49 – 54. Further, allegations are made from ¶ 4 -18.
The
eighth cause of action is only alleged against Papillon, and Papillon’s
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
To
the extent that Liana, in Demurrer 2, also demurred to the eighth cause of
action, her demurrer to the eighth cause of action is OVERRULED as well.
This
tentative ruling incorporates its prior tentative rulings from Demurrer 2 with
respect to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes
of action.
MOTION TO STRIKE 3
Tentative Ruling Motion to Strike 3
Papillon
moved to strike the exact same portions of the FAC that Liana moved to strike,
and the same exact issues arose in this motion that arose in Motion to Strike
2.
The Court is inclined to simply allow leave to
amend.  The Court will hear from the
parties.
 
 
 