 Case Number:  24PSCV00819    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  6 Prime Time Basketball Association Inc. Motion to Set
Aside Default, Vacate Judgment, and Recall the Writ of Possession 
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court GRANTS the Motion to Set Aside
Default, Vacate Judgment, and Recall the Writ of Possession. The default and
default judgment will be set aside and vacated. The writ of possession will be
recalled and quashed. The proposed Answer will be deemed filed forthwith. 
Defendant Prime Time Basketball
Association is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This
is an unlawful detainer action arising from the Defendant’s alleged failure to
pay rent. On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff Bridgetown  Investments, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Prime
Time Basketball Association, Inc. (collectively, “Defendant”), and Does
1 through 10, alleging a single cause of action for non payment of rent.   
On
April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant was
served with the summons and complaint by personal service on March 23, 2024. 
On
April 3, 2024, Plaintiff requested, and default was entered against Defendant
for possession only. 
The
Clerk of the Court entered default judgment against the Defendant for
possession only on April 5, 2024. 
On
April 26, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set aside default, vacate judgment,
and recall the writ of possession (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed opposition on May 3, 2024. Defendant
replied on May 8, 2024. 
The
Motion is brought pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 128(a)(8)(A) and (B) and
473(b) on the grounds that the Default and Judgment were taken against Prime
Time due to Prime Time’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise and excusable neglect,
and due to extrinsic fraud that induced Prime Time to believe that it would not
need to file a responsive pleading prior to default being entered by this Court. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), “the court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §473(b)). Relief under this section is mandatory when based
on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) An
application for relief must be made no more than six months after entry of the
order from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of
fault attesting to the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) When relief from default and a
default judgment is based on an attorney affidavit of fault, the six-month
period starts to run from the date of the entry of the default judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, sub. (b); Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th
294, 295.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            Motion to Set Aside under C.C.P. § 473(b) 
The Court finds the motion to be timely filed. Default
was entered against Defendant on April 3, 2024. (04/03/24 Request for Entry of
Default.) Default Judgment was entered on April 5, 2024. (04/05/24 Judgment.) Defendant
filed the instant motion to set aside on April 26, 2024, well within the
six-month period. Thus, the motion is timely. 
Here, Defendant is not entitled to mandatory relief
because the motion does not include an accompanying attorney affidavit of
fault. The Court exercises its discretion and finds that Defendant is entitled
to discretionary relief under Section 473 as Defendant’s actions constitute a
mistake or excusable neglect. 
Section 473 is often applied liberally where the
party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the
motion will not suffer prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such
situations ‘very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting
aside the default.’ [Citations.] Moreover, because the law strongly favors
trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default [citations].” (Grappo
v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1005-1006.) 
Defendant states that on or about February 13, 2024,
Ace Fushan Lee attended a meeting with Plaintiff’s managing member, David
Perez. (Lee Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant came to an agreement with Plaintiff to pay
back five months of outstanding rent and provided Plaintiff with a schedule for
four payments to be made in March 2024 at two staggard intervals and one
payment to be made in April 2024. (Id.; Exh B.) Defendant avers that
Plaintiff assured Defendant that once Defendant made its payments under the
plan, Plaintiff would not proceed in prosecuting the action. (Id.) Defendant
swears that it began making payments under the agreement and then Plaintiff
filed its Complaint initiating this action. (Id.) 
Although Defendant acknowledges being served with the
Summons and Complaint, Defendant did not file an answer to the Complaint.
However, Defendant argues that it did not file an answer believing that it did
not need to do so because of the agreement with Plaintiff that if Defendant
made the payments, Plaintiff would not proceed with the lawsuit. In fact,
Defendant produced evidence that it made four payments to Plaintiff in February
and March 2024, after the meeting and before the lawsuit was filed, and that
Defendant made another payment to Plaintiff on April 3, 2024 after the lawsuit
was filed and served, in reliance upon their agreement. (Lee Dec., Exh. A.) While
Plaintiff argues that it never agreed to the payment plan or to forego the lawsuit,
Plaintiff did not respond to the text messages from Defendant confirming the
payment plan and subsequent updates of payments made and to be made. Plaintiff
also continued to accept the payments, and did not notify Defendant that
Plaintiff would not allow Defendant to remain in possession of the premises
despite its efforts to become current on the payment of the rent. It is
unlikely that Defendant would have made the  payments after the meeting, and even after the
lawsuit was filed, unless it believed there was some agreement for it to remain
in possession of the premises. The Court finds that Defendant’s failure to file
an Answer to the Complaint was the result of its mistake and/or excusable
neglect. The Court also finds that Plaintiff will not suffer prejudice if the
motion for relief is granted and Plaintiff has not demonstrated otherwise. The
delay in obtaining possession of the premises and the cost to prosecute the contested
action is not sufficient for the Court to deny Defendant the right to defend
this case on the merits. 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion is
GRANTED.   
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS the Motion to Set Aside
Default, Vacate Judgment, and Recall the Writ of Possession. The default and
default judgment will be set aside and vacated. The writ of possession will be
recalled and quashed. The proposed Answer will be deemed filed forthwith. 
Defendant Prime Time Basketball
Association is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five
calendar days of this order. 