 Case Number:  23STCV10022    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH (VANDERBILT
MINERAL)
            Plaintiff
Jesus Armando Vega Portillo alleges Jose Vega Enriquez was exposed to asbestos
in talc supplied by Defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC, Inc.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  

A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This
test does not require a “causal relationship between the defendant’s in-state
activity and the litigation.”  (Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017,
1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks
about causation,” but “relate to” does not. 
(Ibid.)  “[W]hen a
corporation has ‘continuously and deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it
must reasonably anticipate being haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend
actions ‘based on’ products causing injury there.”  (Id. at p. 1027.)  
Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC provided
evidence that it is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of
business in Connecticut (Stewart Decl., ¶ 2), and therefore it is not a
resident of California and not subject to its general jurisdiction.  
Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiff can prove Vega
Enriquez was exposed in California to asbestos in a product that contained Defendant’s
talc.  (Motion at p. 5.)  
The first amended complaint
provides no information about the specific products at issue.  Only in the opposition does Plaintiff
identify general types of products – “Paco joint compound and DAP sealers,
adhesives, caulks, and glazes.”  (Opposition
at p. 1.)  Plaintiff says Vega Enriquez
also used Georgia Pacific joint compounds. 
(Id. at p. 2.)  Plaintiff
cites evidence that Defendant sold talc to Kelly-Moore Paint Company in
California, and Kelly-Moore used the talc in its joint compound products.  (Opposition at pp. 2-3.)  Plaintiff also cites evidence that Defendant sold
talc to DAP, Inc. in California, which used it in various products, and
Defendant sold talc to Georgia Pacific Corporation.  (Id. at pp. 3-4.)  Plaintiff does not cite evidence that Georgia
Pacific used Defendant’s talc in any specific product that Enriquez Vega used.
Defendant argues the
evidence shows only certain products used Defendant’s talc, such as Kelly-Moore’s
Ready-Mix joint compound, but that Plaintiff does not identify the specific
products Vega Enriquez used or that those specific products contained Defendant’s
talc.  (Reply at p. 5.)
Plaintiff requests
jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the specific
products to which Vega Enriquez was exposed. 
The court CONTINUES this motion to January 26, 2024 at 9 a.m. for
jurisdictional discovery on whether Defendant’s talc was in the specific
products to which Vega Enriquez was exposed. 
Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition and Defendant may file a
supplemental reply on regular notice.
The moving party is to
give notice.
 