  Case Number:  23STCP04112    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  82 Stanford Neighborhood Association,
LLC,            Case No. 23STCP04112
                                                                                                
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: August 13, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse    
City
of Los Angeles                                                   Department:
82 
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Sustaining Demurrer to Verified
Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Strike
as Moot
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner
Stanford Neighborhood Association, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed this petition for
writ of mandate on behalf of nine property owners/lessees on Stanford Avenue in
Los Angeles, California.  Petitioner
alleges that three properties on the same street are running an unlicensed and
illegal concrete grinding operation (the “violative properties”).  Petitioner alleges that the City of Los
Angeles (“Respondent” or the “City”) issued notices of code violations against
the violative properties, which included an order to discontinue their concrete
grinding operations.  Petitioner alleges
that the owners and tenants of the violative properties have not cured the
violations and now seeks a writ of mandate requiring the City to “enforce its
order to cease operations.”   
 
            The
court is sympathetic to the plight of the residents because the violative
properties allegedly cause contamination throughout the neighborhood from the
concrete particulate.  However, the court
only has authority to require the City to exercise a ministerial duty, which is
a duty that must be performed in a “prescribed manner” and without
discretion.  Petitioner identifies no
ministerial duty at issue.  To the
contrary, “an agency’s decision not to prosecute or
enforce, whether through civil or criminal process, is a decision generally
committed to an agency’s absolute discretion.” 
(Heckler
v. Chaney (1985) 470 U.S. 821, 831.)  The City retains discretion whether, when,
and how to enforce its orders.  Because
Petitioner challenges the manner in which the City exercises its discretion in
enforcement matters, the court has no authority to issue a writ because doing
so would violate the separation of powers doctrine.  Instead, Petitioner’s remedy lies with those
at the City who have input into enforcement decision.  Therefore, the court has no choice but to
sustain the demurrer.  Because the court
sustains the demurrer, the court denies the motion to strike as moot.    
 
PETITIONER’S
ALLEGATIONS
 
Petitioner has been assigned claims from
the owners and lessees of nine different properties located on the 6000-block
of Stanford Avenue in Los Angeles, California. 
 (Petition for Writ of Mandate
(“Pet.”) ¶ 1.)  The claims of
Petitioner’s assignees relate to a “second group of properties … that are owned
and possessed by a group of entities that are running an unlicensed and illegal
concrete grinding operation.”  (Id.
¶ 9.)  Those properties, which Petitioner
refers to as the “Violative Properties,” are also located on the 6000-block of Stanford
Avenue in Los Angeles, California.  (Id.
¶¶ 9-10.)
 
            Petitioner alleges, on information
and belief, that “on or about March 3, 2021, [Respondent] issued Notices of
Code Violation against the Violative Properties” and that “[i]ncluded in the
Notices of Code Violation was an order to ‘[d]iscontinue the use of land for
Concrete Recycling without the required Certificate of Occupancy’ due to
violations of Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 12.26E.2 and 12.21A.1(a).”  (Id. ¶ 12.)  On or about May 4, 2021, after the owners and
tenants of the Violative Properties did not cure the alleged code violations,
Respondent issued Orders to Comply and Notices of Fees (hereafter “OTCs”).  (Id. ¶¶ 14-15.)  Petitioner alleges that the owners and
tenants of the Violative Properties also did not cure the alleged code
violations in response to the OTCs.  (Id.
¶ 18.)  Petitioner alleges that “the
concrete grinding operation has caused contamination from the concrete
particulate spreading through the neighborhood.”  (Id. ¶ 20.)
 
            Petitioner alleges that “once the
City exercised its discretion and issued a noncontingent order to cease all
operations, the City’s discretion ended and the duty became a mandatory one.”  (Id. ¶ 35.)  Petitioner cites no legal authority for this
proposition.  Petitioner prays for a writ
of mandate directing City to enforce the orders it issued with respect to the
Violative Properties.  (Id. ¶ 37
and Prayer.)  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD  
 
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. §
430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We
assume the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the
truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  The allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of
Petitioner on demurrer.  (See Mobil
Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
Upon
motion, the court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading” or “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.  (CCP § 436.)  As with a demurrer, “[t]he grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”  (CCP § 437.) 
Courts take a “cautious” approach to motions to strike.  “We have no intention of creating a
procedural ‘line item veto’ for the civil defendant.”  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1683.) 
 


 
EVIDENTIARY
ISSUES 
 
            The City requests judicial notice of
three sections of the Los Angeles Municipal Code: Exhibit A, which is section
98.0403.1; Exhibit B, which is section 12.26; and Exhibit C, which is section
12.18.  The court grants the request, per
Evidence Code section 452(b).
 
DISCUSSION

 
            A.        Standing
 
Respondent argues that Petitioner lacks
standing.  The court interprets this
petition as seeking a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  To have standing to seek a writ of
mandate, a party must be “beneficially interested.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1086.)  “A petitioner is beneficially interested if he
or she has some special interest to be served or some particular right to be
preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common with the
public at large.”  (Rialto Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto (2012) 208
Cal. App. 4th 899, 913; accord Carsten v. Psychology Examining Com. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 793, 796-97.)  “This standard …
is equivalent to the federal ‘injury in fact’ test, which requires a party to
prove by a preponderance of the evidence that it has suffered an invasion of a
legally protected interest that is (a) concrete and particularized, and (b)
actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.”  (Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc.
v. San Francisco (1999) 21 Cal.4th 352, 361-362, citations and internal
quotations omitted.)  
 
“Under the doctrine of associational
standing, an association that does not have standing in its own right may
nevertheless have standing to bring a lawsuit on behalf of its members.  (Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1756,
AFL-CIO v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 993, 1003-1004.)  Associational standing exists when: (a) the
association’s members would otherwise have standing to sue in their own right;
(b) the interests the association seeks to protect are germane to the
organization’s purpose; and (c) neither the claim asserted nor the relief
requested requires the participation of individual members in the lawsuit.  (Ibid., citing Hunt v. Washington
Apple Advertising Comm’n (1977) 432 U.S. 333, 343.)    
 
Respondent contends that Petitioner has
not alleged an interest in enforcement of the orders to comply (“OTCs”) “over
and above” the public’s interest in enforcement.  (Amended Demurrer (“Dem.”) 5.)  The court disagrees.  Petitioner is asserting claims on behalf of owners/lessees
of nine properties on the 6000-block of Stanford Avenue.  The violative properties are also on the
6000-block of Stanford Avenue.  The
petition alleges that the concrete grinding operation at the violative
properties has caused contamination from the concrete particulate “spreading
throughout the neighborhood.”  (Pet. ¶
20.)  Because the petition focuses on a specific
neighborhood—the 6000 block of Stanford Avenue—the petition sufficient alleges
that Petitioner’s assignees have a greater interest than the public at large in
the enforcement of the OTCs and abatement of the alleged contamination of the
neighborhood.  Accordingly, Petitioner
has sufficiently alleged standing to seek the requested writ.  
 


 
B.        Exhaustion
of Administrative Remedies 
 
Respondent
contends that Petitioner has not exhausted administrative remedies under Los
Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) sections 98.0403.1 and 12.26 K to “appeal” the alleged
failure of the Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS” or “Department”) to
enforce the OTCs.  (Dem. 6-7.)  Exhaustion of administrative remedies is “a
jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review.”  (Cal. Water Impact Network v. Newhall County Water Dist. (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.)  “Before seeking
judicial review a party must show that he has made a full presentation to the
administrative agency upon all issues of the case and at all prescribed stages of the administrative proceedings.”  (Edgren
v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515,
520.)  There are exceptions to the
exhaustion requirement, including “when the subject of the controversy lies
outside the administrative agency’s jurisdiction, when pursuit of an
administrative remedy would result in irreparable harm, when the administrative
agency cannot grant an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved party can
positively state what the administrative agency's decision in his particular case
would be.”  (Ibid., citations
omitted.)  
 
LAMC section 98.0403.1(b)(2)
states that the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners (“Board”) “shall
have the power to hear and determine appeals from orders, interpretations,
requirements, determinations, or actions of the Department pertaining to
enforcement of specific ordinances, regulations, or laws in site-specific
cases.”  (RJN Exh. 1.)  Further, section 98.0403.1(b)(2) states: 
 
[T]he
Board shall have no authority to hear and determine appeals from orders, interpretations,
requirements, determinations, or actions of the Department pertaining to
enforcement of specific ordinances, regulations, or laws contained in Chapter I
of the LAMC and in other land use ordinances. 
Any appeal concerning these requirements shall be made to the Director
of Planning in accordance with the provisions set forth in LAMC Section 12.26
K.
 
(Ibid.)  Under section 12.26 K:
 
The
Director of Planning shall have the power and duty to investigate and make a
decision upon appeals from determinations of the Department of Building and
Safety where it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion in any order,
interpretation, requirement, determination or action made by the Department of
Building and Safety in the enforcement or administration of Chapter I of this
Code and other land use ordinances in site-specific cases. 
 
(RJN Exh. 2.)
 
Here, Petitioner
does not challenge any express or affirmative “orders, interpretations,
requirements, determinations, or actions” of LADBS.  Rather, the petition arises from alleged
inaction of Respondent, viz., the failure to enforce the OTCs.  Respondent’s counsel argues that in some
circumstances, a failure to enforce OTCs could be viewed as an “action” or
“determination” of LADBS within the meaning of LAMC sections 98.0403.1(b)(2)
and 12.26 K.  (See Dem. 6-7 and Reply
4:8-18.)  The court is skeptical of this
argument, as the plain language of section 12.26 K relates to an “order” or “action”
by the Department of Building and Safety, not an “inaction,” and the City has cited
no example where such an appeal has been entertained.  Regardless, because the demurrer must be
sustained on other grounds, the court need not resolve this issue.  
 
C.        Mandatory Duty and Separation of Powers 
 
            Respondent contends that it does not have a mandatory duty to enforce
the OTCs.  Respondent further argues that
its prosecutorial decisions are not subject to judicial review, and a writ
compelling Respondent to enforce the OTCs would violate the separation of
powers doctrine.  There are two essential
requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial duty on the part
of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial right on the part
of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus
is proper where … the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by
law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)  “A ministerial act is an act that a public officer is required to
perform in a prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority
and without regard to his own judgment or opinion concerning such act’s
propriety or impropriety, when a given state of facts exists.”  (Kavanaugh
v. West Sonoma County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 916.)  By contrast, the court has no authority to order
a public officer to undertake a discretionary act.  
 
Petitioner does not identify any statute or LAMC
section that requires the City to take action to enforce the OTCs.  Nor does any LAMC section cited in the
petition or briefing contain such a requirement.  Petitioner alleges that concrete grinding
operations are prohibited by LAMC section 12.18(B)(3).  (Pet. ¶¶ 24-26.)  Section 12.18(B)(3) applies to the “MR2”
Restricted Light Industrial Zone and prohibits uses that include “[b]uilding
materials salvage yard” unless such uses are “conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a
solid wall or solid fence not less than eight feet in height, when no materials
or equipment is stored to a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or
fence … and the wall or fence is maintained as provided in Section 12.21-A,9.”  (RJN Exh. C.) 
Section 12.18(B)(3) does not, in itself, mandate any enforcement action
of LADBS or the City.  
 
LAMC
section 98.0403.1, subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3), as well as LAMC section 12.26
grant the power to LADBS “to enforce the zoning ordinances of the City,”
including section 12.18.  (RJN Exh. 1.)  This power is discretionary in nature and generally
cannot be controlled by mandate.  As
Petitioner concedes, “[h]ad Petitioner sued to force the City to determine that
they should issue an order to cease operations, Petitioner would necessarily
lose because such an order is fully within the discretion of the Code Officer.”  (Opposition to Demurrer (“Oppo.”) 7:3-5.)  
 
Instead,
Petitioner argues that once Respondent issued the OTCs, it had a ministerial
duty to enforce them.  (Oppo. 6-7.)  Essentially, Petitioner argues that once the
City decides to issue the OTCs, it loses all prosecutorial discretion over the
case.  Petitioner cites no case directly
on point, and the LAMC sections do not support that argument.  To the contrary, the LAMC affords the City
discretion to enforce zoning ordinances. 
 
 
Petitioner
relies heavily on Thompson v. City of Lake Elsinore (1993) 18
Cal.App.4th 49, but that case is distinguishable.  In Thompson, the plaintiff sought a
building permit and certificate of occupancy. 
The city issued the building permit but not the certificate of
occupancy.  The pertinent provision of
the Uniform Building Code stated that “[a]fter final inspection when it is
found that the building or structure complies with the provisions of this Code,
the Building Official shall issue a Certificate of Occupancy.”  (Thompson, supra, 18 Cal.App.4th at 58,
emphasis added.)  The city had already
determined that the plaintiff met the statutory requirements for issuance of a
certificate of occupancy and gave a “Final Inspection Okay.”  (Id. at 58.)  Accordingly, the Court of Appeal held that “the
building official retained no further discretion to withhold the certificate of
occupancy” because the regulation stated that the city “shall” issue the
certificate of occupancy.  (Ibid.)  The Thompson case involved a
ministerial duty, viz., the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.  By contrast, the instant case involves the
exercise of prosecutorial discretion. 
Unlike the Thompson case, there is no municipal code section,
city regulation, or statutory law that imposes a ministerial duty on the City
under these circumstances.   
 
At
heart, Petitioner asks this court to substitute its judgment for that of the
City on the issue of whether and how to enforce the zoning ordinances at
issue.  Such a writ would violate the
separation of powers doctrine because the court cannot supplant the
prosecutorial discretion of an executive branch agency.  As discussed, the City has discretion over
how to enforce the zoning ordinances. 
This precludes a writ.
 
Th[e] [United States Supreme] Court has recognized on several occasions over
many years that an agency’s decision not to prosecute or enforce, whether
through civil or criminal process, is a decision generally committed to an
agency’s absolute discretion.  This
recognition of the existence of discretion is attributable in no small part to
the general unsuitability for judicial review of agency decisions to refuse
enforcement. 
 
(Heckler
v. Chaney (1985) 470 U.S. 821, 831, citations
omitted.)  This principle applies in both
civil and criminal matters in which an agency or public officer has enforcement
discretion.  (See People v. Karriker
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 763, 786; accord People v. Cimarusti (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 314, 322-323; Riggs v. City of Oxnard (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d
526, 530; Dix v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 442, 451; Schwartz v.
Poizner
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 592, 597–598.)  “This discretion,
though recognized by statute in California, is founded upon constitutional
principles of separation of powers and due process of law.”  (Gananian v. Wagstaffe (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1532, 1545-1546, citations omitted.)  
 
            Petitioner argues
that the separation of powers doctrine does not bar the petition because “the
discretionary portion of the City’s duties is complete and all that is left is
to enforce the order.”  (Oppo. 10:6-7.)  This argument assumes the City is required to
enforce its OTCs once they are issued.  As
discussed, Petitioner does not identify anything that mandates such action by
the City.  The City retains discretion in
terms of whether, when, and how to enforce its OTCs for valid purposes.  For example, the City retains discretion to
negotiate resolutions to avoid enforcement actions.  Similarly, the City has limited staffing and
must prioritize its enforcement actions. 
These are valid considerations for the City and precisely the reason the
courts cannot substitute their discretion for that of the City’s
officials.   
 
Petitioner argues that “the failure to utilize
[its] discretion is, in and of itself, an abuse of discretion after three years
of failing to enforce its order.”  (Oppo.
at 7:10-11, emphasis omitted.) In certain limited circumstances, mandamus may be
utilized to correct abuses of discretion. 

 
In determining whether a public agency has abused its discretion, the
court may not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, and if reasonable
minds may disagree as to the wisdom of the agency’s action, its determination
must be upheld.  A court must ask whether
the public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in
evidentiary support, or whether the agency failed to follow the procedure and
give the notices the law requires.  
 
(County of
Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)  This does not apply to prosecutorial
decisions of a local agency.  (See Heckler,
supra, 470 U.S. at 831.)  Petitioner
cites no authority to the contrary. 
Indeed, a writ of mandate may not be used “to control an exercise of
discretion, i.e., to compel an official to exercise discretion in a particular
manner.”  (Common Cause v. Board of
Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 442.) 
Regardless, the petition does not allege that the City has abused its
discretion in failing to enforce the OTCs; the petition alleges only that the
City has a ministerial duty to enforce the OTCs.  
 
            D.        Leave to Amend         
 
            The
court denies leave to amend with respect to Petitioner’s theory that the City
has a mandatory duty.  Petitioner’s
counsel does not identify any mandatory duty at issue, even in his  supplemental briefing.  Therefore, Petitioner may not re-assert this
claim based upon a theory that the City has violated a ministerial duty.    
 
            The
court (reluctantly) grants leave to amend with respect to Petitioner’s theory
that “[a] refusal to exercise discretion in itself is an abuse of discretion.”  The court is skeptical whether Petitioner can
allege that the City has refused to exercise its discretion.  The mere fact that the City has not
instituted an enforcement action for three years is not evidence that the City
has refused to make a decision whether to do so.  Petitioner’s counsel argues that the City’s
failure to issue a certificate of occupancy or take enforcement action
evidences its failure to exercise discretion. 
That is not correct.  The City
could affirmatively decide not to issue a certificate of occupancy because it
does not condone the activity, and the City also could affirmatively decide not
to institute an enforcement action for a variety of reasons, e.g., the
City’s resources are limited; there are higher enforcement priorities; the
issue is not serious enough to warrant action; the City is exploring
alternative resolutions; etc.  Therefore,
the court is skeptical whether Petitioner’s counsel can allege sufficient facts
to demonstrate that the City has failed to exercise its discretion.  
 
            Moreover,
the court is skeptical whether such a writ would “advance the ball,” as they
say.  Even if Petitioner prevailed on this
narrow theory, the remedy would be limited: The court could only order the City
to make a decision whether to institute an enforcement action or not; the court
could not compel the City to exercise its discretion in any specific manner, i.e.,
the court could not require the City to institute an enforcement action.  (See Morris v. Harper (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 52, 62-63.)  If the court
issued such a writ, the City presumably would file a return stating that the
City has made a decision, and the decision is not to institute an enforcement
action against the violative properties at this time.  That would satisfy the dictates of the writ
sought under this new theory.  Nevertheless,
out of an abundance of caution, the court will grant leave to amend.
 
            The
court also grants leave to amend to assert any non-writ causes of action.  For example, Petitioner’s counsel represents
that he intends to file a civil rights claim against the City.  He may do so, but any non-writs claims will
be stayed and then transferred to an Independent Calendar court once this court
resolves the writ claims.  
 
            E.         Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo, 144 S.Ct. 2244 (2024)
 
            Petitioner’s counsel requested an
opportunity to provide additional briefing on Loper Bright Enterprises v.
Raimondo, 144 S.Ct. 2244 (2024).  The
U.S. Supreme Court held that courts need not defer to an agency’s
interpretation of the law simply because a statute is ambiguous, overruling Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837
(1984).  Even assuming this applies to state
law issues, it is not applicable in this case. 
The court did not defer to the City’s interpretation of the applicable
regulations.  The court interpreted the
applicable municipal code sections de novo.       
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The
court is sympathetic to the plight of the residents because the violative
properties allegedly cause contamination throughout the neighborhood from the
concrete particulate.  However, the court
only has authority to order the City to exercise a ministerial duty.  In this case, the City retains discretion
whether, when, and how to enforce its orders to comply against the violative
properties.  Because the City has
discretion in this regard, the court is powerless to grant the relief
sought.  Instead, Petitioner’s remedy
lies with those who have input over enforcement decisions, like the officials
of the Department of Building and Safety or elected officials, e.g., the Mayor,
the respective member of the City Council, and/or the City Attorney.  Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as
follows:
 
            1.         The court sustains the demurrer.  
 
            2.         The court denies the motion to strike
the prayer for declaratory relief as moot.
 
3.         The court denies leave to amend with
respect to a claim for petition for writ of mandate based upon a ministerial
duty.  
 
4.         The
court grants leave to amend to re-assert a claim for petition for writ of
mandate based upon the theory that “[a] refusal
to exercise discretion in itself is an abuse of discretion.”  The court also grants leave to amend to
assert any non-writ causes of action.  
 
5.         Petitioner’s counsel may file a first
amended petition and complaint within thirty (30) days.  The court provides notice: If Petitioner’s
counsel fails to do so, absent good cause, this case will be dismissed with prejudice.
 
6.         The court shall hold a trial setting
conference on December 4, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. 
Respondent’s counsel may notice any demurrer for hearing on that date.
 
7.         Respondent’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: August 13, 2024                                             ________________________________ 
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 