 Case Number:  23CHCV03544    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/24/24
Case #23CHCV03544
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 3/25/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Floreen Essa as Administrator of
the Estate of Leonard Rasho
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Anita Abraham Rasho
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint on rejected claim.
 
RULING: The hearing on the demurrer will be
continued.  
 
On 11/17/23, Plaintiff Anita Abraham Rasho (Plaintiff)
filed the underlying “Complaint on Rejected Claim” against Defendant Floreen
Essa, as Administrator for the Estate of Leonard Rasho (Defendant).  
 
No proof of service for the summons and complaint has
been filed.  However, on 3/25/24,
Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the complaint.  No proof of service for the demurrer has been
filed and no opposition or other response to the demurrer had been filed when
the Court first reviewed the matter in preparation for the hearing.  Additionally, no declaration has been filed
indicating that Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff before
filing the instant demurrer as required by CCP 430.41.  See CCP 430.41(a)(3).  Therefore, the Court’s initial tentative
ruling was to place the matter off calendar.
 
However, upon further review of the file, the Court
noticed that an opposition to the demurrer had been filed in the afternoon of
5/22/24, seven court days late and three court days after a reply was due to be
filed and served.  CCP 1005(b).  The opposition to the demurrer includes both
procedural arguments (untimeliness of the demurrer and failure to serve the
demurrer) and substantive arguments.    
 
The hearing on the demurrer will be continued so that
Defendant can file and serve a reply to the opposition.  The Court notes that the proof of service
attached to the opposition indicates that it was served on Defendant’s counsel
by email; however, no email address for Defendant’s counsel is set forth in the
proof of service.  A reply is due to be
filed and properly served at least 5 court days before the continued hearing
date.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the opposition in violation of
CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the
parties are warned that failure to comply with court rules and/or failure to
properly and/or timely serve and/or file documents in the future may result in
matters being continued, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  
 
Finally, the Court notes that although Defendant reserved
the hearing as a Demurrer – with Motion to Strike, a motion to strike has not
been filed.  