  Case Number:  23CHCV01929    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/24/24
Case #23CHCV01929
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Motion filed on 11/17/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Townhomes at Lost Canyon
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
David Tchakerian, Alice Tchakerian (an adult), Mariam Hovannisyan, April
Tchakerian and Alice Tchakerian (a minor) 

NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order quashing the service of
Summons of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
 
RULING: The motion is granted.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs David Tchakerian
(David), Alice Tchakerian (an adult) (Alice Sr.), Mariam Hovannisyan (Mariam),
April Tchakerian (April) and Alice Tchakerian’s (a minor) (Alice Jr.)
(collectively, Plaintiffs) tenancy at the Townhomes at Lost Canyon, Unit 18185
from 2014 to August 2022.  In their
complaint, Plaintiffs assert various habitability claims. 
 
On 8/30/16, KW Santa Clarita Townhomes LLC (KW Santa
Clarita) purchased the Townhomes at Lost Canyon from Archstone Santa Clarita
Venture LLC.  (RJN, Ex.1).  The Grant Deed pursuant to which KW Santa
Clarita purchased the apartment complex refers to the property as “Townhomes at
Lost Canyon.”  Id.   After the property was acquired, lease
agreements entered into with tenants referred to the owner as “Townhomes at
Lost Canyon,” which is the dba of  KW
Santa Clarita.  (See Complaint,
Ex.B ¶1).  
 
On 7/3/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against Townhomes
At Lost Canyon; KW Santa Clarita Townhomes LLC; K-W Properties; Archstone Santa
Clarita Venture LC; Lincoln Property Company E.C.W. LLC and Does 1-25 for
alleging various causes of action.  On
9/19/23, Plaintiffs filed a Proof of Service of Summons claiming to have
personally served “Townhomes at Lost Canyon, a business entity, form
unknown.”  (See Bernardoni Decl.
¶3, Ex.1).  According to the Proof of
Service, Plaintiffs purportedly served a “Jane Doe – Authorized to accept on
behalf of Registered Agent CT Corporation System.”  Id. 
However, the California Secretary of State website does not provide a
registered agent for service of process for any entity known as “Townhomes at
Lost Canyon” because no such entity exits. 
(Bernardoni Decl. ¶¶4-5).  
Further, “CT Corporation System” was purportedly served
at 18179 W. Terra Verde Place, Santa Clarita, CA 91387 which is the address for
the leasing office at the Townhomes at Lost Canyon, not CT Corporation
System.  (Bernardoni Decl. ¶5,
Ex.1).  CT Corporation System’s
California office is located at 330 North Brand Blvd., Suite 700, Glendale,
California 91203 which is the location where Plaintiffs properly served KW
Santa Clarita.  (Id. ¶6). 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to respond to KW Santa Clarita
dba Townhomes at Lost Canyon’s efforts to informally resolve the issues raised
by the instant motion.  (Bernardoni Decl.
¶7).  Therefore, on 11/17/23, Defendant
Townhomes at Lost Canyon filed and served the instant motion seeking an order quashing
the service of Summons of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.  Plaintiffs have not opposed or otherwise
responded to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Townhomes at Lost Canyon’s Request for Judicial Notice
(RJN) is granted.
 
A defendant may move to quash service of a summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over defendant.  CCP 418.10(a).  Once a defendant moves to quash service, the
plaintiff has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
service is proper and the court has jurisdiction over the defendant.  Bolkiah (1999) 74 CA4th 984, 991; Ziller
Electronics Lab Gmbh (1988) 206 CA3d 1222, 1233.  Plaintiffs service on Townhomes at Lost
Canyon fails because no such entity exists and, therefore, there is no agent
for service of process.
 
Even if Townhomes at Lost Canyon was an entity, the
service was defective.  A summons and
complaint must be served on a corporation through its agent for service of
process or its president, chief executive officer, head of the corporation, vice
president, secretary or assistant secretary, controller, chief financial
officer, general manager, or person authorized to accept service of process.  CCP 416.10(a), (b).  Plaintiffs’ service on a Jane Doe at the
subject property , as an “agent” for a non-existent “Registered Agent” does not
satisfy the requirements of CCP 416.10.
 
As noted above, Plaintiffs have not opposed or otherwise
responded to the instant motion.  As
such, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden of establishing that the
court has jurisdiction over Townhomes at Lost Canyon.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
 
 