 Case Number:  BC684669    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion For Leave Of Court To Conduct Independent Medical
Examinations Of Plaintiff And Reopen Discovery For Medical Records Subpoenas
And Plaintiff Deposition.
 
 
The motion hearing is continued to 2/23/24 at 8:30
a.m. in Department 55, for the reasons discussed below.
 
Background
Plaintiff Camilla Lopez Magallanes filed this action
in 2017 seeking damages against Defendant LAUSD (“Defendant”) for head injuries
she sustained after she fell at her elementary school playground. Defendant
previously conducted independent medical exams (IMEs) of Plaintiff. Defendant has
filed a motion requesting leave to have Plaintiff submit to further neurological,
psychiatric, and neuropsychological IMEs, and to reopen discovery for the
limited purpose of subpoenaing Plaintiff’s medical records, and for the
deposition of Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard
A party may seek a court order for additional IMEs
based on a showing of good cause. CCP §2032.310(a), §2032.320(a). A notice of
motion for a mental or physical examination “‘shall specify the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the
identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform
the examination.’”  Carpenter v. Sup.
Ct (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 249, 259; CCP §2032.310(b).  “‘An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope and nature of the examination.’”  Ibid. at 259-61; CCP §2032.320(d).
A party may obtain more than one deposition of a
party, and obtain an order to re-open discovery, upon a showing of good cause. CCP
§2025.610(b); Hernandez v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 115 Cal. App. 4th 1242,
1247-48 (finding abuse of discretion as to trial court denial of request to
reopen discovery when good cause for such relief was shown).
 Analysis  
The Court agrees with Defendant the good cause exists
for Plaintiff to submit to further neurological, psychiatric, and
neuropsychological IMEs because Plaintiff now claims new or worse injuries than
when she filed the Complaint and/or submitted to the prior IMEs. Plaintiff previously
complained of PTSD, emotional distress, headaches, depression, memory loss, and
loss of enjoyment of life. She now complains of a new head injury, was
hospitalized on a psychiatric basis, and is hearing voices telling her to do
bad things. (Del Rio Decl., Ex. B.) Likewise, good cause exists to re-open
discovery to subpoena Plaintiff’s recent medical records and to depose Plaintiff
regarding her new complaints. Indeed, Plaintiff does not oppose Defendant’s
request to re-open discovery for these purposes. 
Plaintiff acknowledges that additional IMEs may be warranted
but contends that Defendant’s request for the IMEs is overly broad in scope. Defendant’s
motion seeks a neuropsychological examination that lists nearly 100 potential
tests that the neuropsychologist Dr. Hope E. Goldberg and her assistants and/or
associated will administer. Defendant states that “no more than a quarter” of
the tests are “likely to be administered.” (Mot. at 4.) While Plaintiff did not
lodge specific objections to any of Dr. Goldberg’s potential tests, or those of
the psychiatric examiner Dr. Jeff Sugar, Plaintiff did adequately raise
concerns about the “abusive” number of potential tests. See Carpenter
v. Superior Ct. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 249, 267 (noting that defendants
should disclose the potential tests, and the plaintiff may present argument and
evidence regarding “inappropriate, irrelevant, or abusive” proposed tests). The
Court concludes that Defendant must confer with its examiners and cull the list
of potential tests to a more manageable number. Plaintiff has done prior IMEs
in this case so the tests she completed beforehand could be a useful starting
point for this renewed set of potential tests. The Court expects that the
parties can meet and confer to reach a reasonable compromise on the scope of
the potential tests the examiners will administer. 
The Court concludes that the time estimates for the
IMEs are not unduly protracted, intrusive, or harassing as Plaintiff contends
because Plaintiff has undergone these examinations before. Plaintiff may audio-record
the mental examination portions of the testing, as provided in CCP § 2032.530(a).
Contrary to Defendant’s contention, this audio recording may include the
written part of any tests performed by Dr. Goldberg. 
Plaintiff contends that the motion improperly provides
that unnamed “associates” or “assistants” will perform the IMEs along with the
three identified professionals. But it appears that Defendant’s motion is
adequate for the purposes of obtaining a court order. “Although the statute
does not expressly say so, medical examinations apparently may be conducted by
persons working under the general direction of a licensed physician or health
care practitioner.”  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group
2023)  §§ 
8:1536-8:1536.1  (citing Reuter
v. Sup.Ct. (1979) 93 CA3d 332, 339 (decided under former California
Discovery Act).
Finally, Plaintiff is entitled to obtain copies of any
reports from the testing along with the raw data. “If a party submits to, or
produces another for, a physical or mental examination in compliance with a
demand…, that party has the option of making a written demand that the party at
whose instance the examination was made deliver both of the following to the
demanding party: (1) A copy of a detailed written report setting out the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made,
diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner.”  CCP   §
2032.610(a).
Conclusion
The Court therefore continues the motion so that counsel
can meet and confer to narrow the breadth of the potential tests that will be
administered by the examiners. The Court orders Defendant to provide the Court 10
calendar days before the next hearing with a revised notice of the three
examinations listing a more narrowed set of potential tests to be administered
by the examiners. As discussed above, the existing time estimates and listing of
the examiners are acceptable. But Defendant needs to make clear in the revised
notice that all mental examinations may be audio-recorded. 
Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition to the
revised notice 5 calendar days before the hearing. 