 Case Number:  24STCV15713    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling 
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
31, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Shahram Hosseini v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
 
ASE NO.:                    24STCV15713
 

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Shahram
Hosseini
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
lemon law action.  Shahram Hosseini (Hosseini
or Plaintiff) alleges that he entered into an agreement with car dealership Mercedes
Benz of Walnut Creek to lease a new 2023 Mercedes-Benz EQS 450, VIN W1KCG2DB4PA033674
(the Vehicle).  The agreement has an
arbitration clause.  Mercedes-Benz USA,
LLC (MBUSA or Defendant) is the manufacturer of the Vehicle.  Hosseini received express and implied
warranties related to the Vehicle.  The Vehicle
was delivered with serious defects and nonconformities.  Hosseini presented the Vehicle for repair at
an authorized service and repair facility.  The authorized facility failed to conform the
Vehicle to the applicable warranties.  Further,
MBUSA failed to issue a refund or replace the Vehicle.  This action followed. 
 
            On June 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against MBUSA.
 
            On July 26,
2024, MBUSA filed this motion to compel binding arbitration.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  MBUSA filed a reply.

 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)  Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  Arbitration agreements can be invalidated by “generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
 
“California
law strongly favors arbitration.  Through
the comprehensive provisions of the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has expressed a ‘strong public policy
in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. §
1 et seq.), California law establishes a presumption in favor of
arbitrability.  An agreement to submit
disputes to arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125 (OTO).)

 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, the party
opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate the agreement should not be
enforced, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final
determination on the issue.  (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, the court can compel parties to an
arbitration agreement to arbitrate their dispute.  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            There is no dispute Plaintiff signed an agreement for
purchase of the Vehicle which contains an arbitration clause.  There is also no dispute the Federal
Arbitration Act governs the arbitration clause. 
The court must decide two issues: (1) does MBUSA, as a nonsignatory to
the Agreement, have standing to enforce the arbitration agreement?  If so, (2) does the court or the arbitrator
decide whether the arbitration agreement is enforceable?  Because the court finds there is a valid
delegation clause, the court will compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration.  
 
A.    The Delegation Clause
 
“Although threshold questions of¿arbitrability¿are
ordinarily for courts to decide in the first instance under the [Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA)], the ‘[p]arties to an¿arbitration agreement¿may agree
to¿delegate¿to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the
enforceability of the agreement.’”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239 (Pinela) quoting¿Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “Just as the
arbitrability of the merits of a dispute depends upon whether the parties
agreed to arbitrate that dispute, … so the question who has the primary power
to decide arbitrability turns upon what the parties agreed about that
matter.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891 (Aanderud).)  The delegation issue is a “gateway”
question.  (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc.
v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 69 (Rent-A-Car).)   
 
“There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be
effective.  First, the language of the
clause must be clear and unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.  The ‘clear and
unmistakable’ test reflects a ‘heightened standard of proof’ that reverses the
typical presumption in favor of the arbitration disputes.”  (Aanderud, supra, 13¿Cal.App.5th
at p. 892 (cleaned up).)  Thus, “[u]nless
the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise, the question of whether
the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the court, not the
arbitrator.’”  (Pinela, supra,
at pp. 239-40 (cleaned up).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff clearly and unmistakably agreed to commit
questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator. 
The Agreement states, in relevant part, “Any claim or dispute, … (including
any dispute over the interpretation, scope, or validity of this lease,
arbitration section or the arbitrability of any issue), between you and us
or any of our employees, agents, successors, assigns, or the vehicle
distributor, including Mercedes-Benz USA LLC (each a “Third Party
Beneficiary”), which arises out of or relates to a credit application, this
lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of this lease
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at the election of either you, us, or a Third Party
Beneficiary, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action”  (Agreement, p. 4, emphasis
added.)  
 
The language is clear and unmistakable.  The delegation clause reserves to the
arbitrator the issue whether the agreement is enforceable.  For this reason, the court compels Plaintiff’s
claims to arbitration.  Plaintiff may
present his unconscionability argument to the arbitrator.[1] 
 
B.     MBUSA Has Standing to Compel Arbitration 
 
The court has found the delegation clause clearly and
unmistakably reserves the issue of arbitrability to the arbitrator.  Accordingly, the arbitrator must decide
whether MBUSA has standing to compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary.  However, even if the court were to decide this
issue, the court would find MBUSA has standing to compel arbitration as a
third-party beneficiary of the Agreement. 

 
There are exceptions to the general rule that a nonsignatory
to an agreement cannot be compelled to arbitrate and cannot invoke an agreement
to arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration agreement.” (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-37.) 
For instance, a nonsignatory may compel arbitration as a third-party
beneficiary to the arbitration agreement.¿(Ronay Family Ltd. Partnership v.
Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838;¿see also¿Civ. Code, § 1559¿(“A
contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by
him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.”).]
 
Here, the arbitration clause in the Agreement states:  
 
“Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute
over the interpretation, scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section
or the arbitrability of any issue), between you and us or any of our employees,
agents, successors, assigns, or the vehicle distributor, including Mercedes-Benz
USA LLC (each a “Third Party Beneficiary”), which arises out of or relates
to a credit application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or
relationship arising out of this lease (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at the election of
either you, us, or a Third Party Beneficiary, be resolved by a neutral, binding
arbitration and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated
on an individual basis and not as a class action. The arbitration shall be administered
by the American Arbitration Association, or by any other organization that you
may choose, subject to our or a Third Party Beneficiary’s approval.”
 
(Agreement, p. 4, emphasis added.)
 
            Under the
express terms of the Agreement, MBUSA is a third-party beneficiary. And just
like a signatory to the agreement, a third-party beneficiary is empowered to compel
a claim arising from the transaction to arbitration.  MBUSA thus has standing to compel arbitration
as an enumerated third-party beneficiary. 

 
            Nonetheless,
Plaintiff argues MBUSA cannot invoke the arbitration clause because MBUSA does
not satisfy the elements to do so as a third-party beneficiary.  A non-signatory seeking to compel arbitration
as a third-party beneficiary must demonstrate (1) “the third party would in
fact benefit from the contract;” (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting
parties was to provide a benefit to the third party;” and (3) permitting the
third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 830 (Goonewardene).) 
In further support, Plaintiff cites several federal authorities for the
proposition that a non-signatory, third-party beneficiary, like MBUSA, has no
independent right to enforce a dealer’s clause when it is not expressly
included in the arbitration language. 
(See Plaintiff’s Copies of Non-California Authorities Cited in
Opposition to the Motion to Compel Arbitration and For a Stay.)   Although
not cited by the parties, the Second Appellate District also recently examined
this issue in Rivera v. Superior Court of Ventura County (2024) 105
Cal.App.5th 288 (Rivera).  In Rivera,
a lemon law case, the Court of Appeal concluded that Ford (the car
manufacturer) and its authorized service center were not intended third party
beneficiaries of the plaintiff’s car sale contract with the dealership.  Ford and its authorized service center were not
expressly identified as third party beneficiaries in the sales contract.  Consequently, Ford and the authorized service
center could not compel arbitration based on a third-party beneficiary theory.  (Rivera, at pp. 740-41.)     
 
            Goonewardene,
Plaintiff’s “Non-California Authorities”, and Rivera are
distinguishable.  None of these cases dealt
with an arbitration clause that explicitly identified the third-party
beneficiary.  As discussed above, the
Agreement unequivocally provides that MBUSA is a “Third Party
Beneficiary”.  This ends the inquiry.[2]  Having so concluded, the court need not and
does not address whether MBUSA may compel arbitration under an equitable
estoppel theory.     
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
             Given the foregoing, Defendant Mercedes-Benz
USA LLC’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED.  The action is stayed pending the conclusion
of the arbitration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  The court sets a post-arbitration status
conference for July 31, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 31,
2024                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior
  Court 




 


