  Case Number:  23AHCV00377    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      February 29, 2024                                           TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         JAMES CALIBORNE,
an individual, v. MATTHEW LENOCI, an individual and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00377
 
            
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL ADDITIONAL EXAMINATIONS 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Matthew Lenoci
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
James Claiborne
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 8, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 7 and 15, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed February 21, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves for an order compelling
Plaintiff to appear for four physical or mental examinations. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff James
Claiborne’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that he suffered injuries because of a motor
vehicle collision caused by Defendant Matthew Lenoci. Plaintiff filed this
complaint on February 2, 2023.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiff to submit to further physical examinations are
DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED in
accordance with this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (a), provides: “If any party
desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described
in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a
mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.” “The court shall
grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.320, subdivision (a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant files four separate motions seeking to compel Plaintiff to
submit to additional physical or mental examinations. Plaintiff provides that
Defendant previously served a demand for physical examination. (Berkley Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff provides he appeared for the
examination on January 5, 2024. (Id. ¶ 9.) The January 5, 2024,
examination was conducted by Dr. Lorne Label, a neurologist. (Id. ¶ 8,
Exhibit 4.) Plaintiff provides that Dr. Label conducted a physical and
neurological examination. (Id. ¶ 11.) The previous demand for
examination provided that Dr. Label’s examination would include x-rays, CT
scans, and/or MRI studies. (Id. ¶ 8, Exhibit 4.) 
 
            Defendant subsequently filed four motions to compel
additional examinations. Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to
submit examinations with the following physicians: (1) Charles Rosen, M.D., an
orthopedist, (2) Dr. Marc Cohen, an otolaryngologist, (3) Ted Evans, M.D., a
neuropsychologist, and (4) Alfredo Sadum, M.D., an ophthalmologist.  
 
            “As a general
matter, a defendant may obtain a physical or mental examination of the
plaintiff . . . if the plaintiff has placed his or her physical or mental
condition in controversy.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 258.) In response to Defendant’s discovery requests, Plaintiff
provided he suffered from the following injuries:
 
Traumatic brain
injury (head), head loss of consciousness, head post concussive syndrome,
headache, head difficulty concentrating, head difficulty focusing, head blurred
vision both eyes, head ringing in both ears, head partial loss of hearing in
both ears, head dizziness, head room is spinning, head confusion, head memory
issues, head nausea, head agitation, head shocked, head scared, head
disoriented, head mood swings, face, neck, neck stiffness, upper back, upper
back stiffness, mid back, mid back stiffness, low back, both shoulders,
abdomen, both thighs, both thighs stiffness, both thighs weakness, both thighs
tautness, both buttocks, groin, testicles, testicles varicocele, right arm,
right arm numbness, right arm tingling, left arm, left arm weakness, left arm
numbness, left arm tingling sensation, left arm paresthesia, both legs, both
legs difficult walking, sleep interference due to pain to the neck, and low
back, insomnia (secondary to orthopedic injuries), tired (secondary to
orthopedic injuries), vomiting (secondary to orthopedic injuries), anxious
(secondary to orthopedic injuries), nervous (secondary to orthopedic injuries),
flashbacks (secondary to orthopedic injuries), irritated (secondary to
orthopedic injuries), easy to anger (secondary to orthopedic injuries),
appetite decreased (secondary to orthopedic injuries), and emotional injuries
(pain and suffering) secondary to orthopedic injuries.
 
(Berkley Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibit 1.) 
 
            In Shapira
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255, the Court noted that
multiple medical examinations may be ordered to cover the various types of a
plaintiff’s injury. The Court also noted that “multiple examinations should not
be ordered routinely; the good cause requirement will check the potential
harassment of plaintiffs by repetitive examinations.” (Ibid.) Lastly,
the court noted that “good cause is a factual question which the trial court
should resolve in the first instance.”
 
            Defendant
seeks three physical examinations and one mental examination. In regards to
additional physical examinations, Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff to submit
to additional examinations with an ophthalmologist, an orthopedist, and an otolaryngologist. Notably, Defendant provides that each of the
specialists will conduct similar tests, including x-rays, CT scans, and/or MRI
studies, already conducted by Dr. Label at the previous physical examination.
 
            Defendant
has failed to set forth good cause for further physical examinations. For each
of the three physical examinations sought, Defendant merely argues that the
specialist is necessary because their specialties relate to injuries alleged by
Plaintiff. However, Defendant’s arguments are broad and are not supported by
any citation to evidence. Further, Defendant’s arguments go to whether
Plaintiff’s has placed his condition at controversy, which is not contested.
Defendant has failed to address why good cause exists for the additional
physical examinations sought. 
 
            Defendant
is seeking three additional specialists who will supposedly administer the same
examinations, x-rays, CT scans, and MRI studies, already conducted by a
specialist chosen by Defendant but fails to explain why those further
examinations are supported by good cause. For instance, Defendant does not
address how an x-ray conducted by an otolaryngologist would produce new
or different insight to an x-ray already conducted by Dr. Label. While
consultation with a specialist would clearly provide additional information,
Defendant has failed to demonstrate good cause for further physical
examinations, especially given that the additional specialists will
purportedly use the same examinations already administered.  Could Defendant not obtain the same level of
information sought by simply providing the previously obtained test results to
these additional specialists? 
 
            As to the
sought mental examination, Plaintiff served his objections but agreed to allow
the examination to go forward. (Berkley Decl. ¶ 14, Exhibit 10.) 
 
            “An order granting
a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.320, subdivision (d).)
 
            The Court
grants Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of
Plaintiff. As a preliminary comment, the court notes that the date of
examination has apparently changed from Defendant’s previous request and this
present motion. The examination shall take place on March 18, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. at 5363 Balboa Boulevard, Suite 437 Encino, CA 91316. The
examination shall be conducted by Ted Evans, M.D., and shall be conducted for
assessing Plaintiff’s mental condition and claims of mental injuries. 
 
The
examinations will be drawn from the following tests: (1) Green's Word Memory
Test (2) Dot Counting Test (3) Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Fourth
Edition (4) Wechsler Memory Scale-Fourth Edition (5) Wide Range Achievement
Test-4th Edition (6) Grooved Pegboard (7) TOMM (8) Finger Tapping Test (9)
Stroop Color-Word Test (10) Controlled Oral Word Association Test (11) Boston
Naming Test (12) Trailmaking Test (13) Auditory Consonant Trigrams (14) Rey
Auditory Verbal Learning Test (15) Rey Complex Figure Test (16) California
Verbal Learning Test-2 (17) Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (18) Trauma Symptom
Inventory-2 (19) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-A (20) Beck
Depression Inventory-2 (21) Beck Anxiety Inventory.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiff to submit to further physical examinations are
DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED in
accordance with this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
            May
20th motion to compel mental examination is taken off calendar.
 
            Moving
party to provide notice. 
 
            
Dated:   February 29,
2024                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
