 Case Number:  23BBCV00340    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Michele A.
  Santopietro, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
sandra d.
  Santopietro, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00340
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
ex parte motion for conitnuance of summary judgment hearing  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Michele
Santopietro (“Plaintiff,” a self-represented litigant) alleges that on June 27, 2007, she and
her mother purchased property located at 554 E. San Jose Ave., #204 in Burbank
for $510,000 and the grant deed asserted the property was granted to “Sandra D.
Santopietro, a widow and Michele A. Santopietro, a single woman as Joint Tenants”
(“First Deed”). 
On October 8, 2008, a second grant deed
(“Second Deed”) was executed, whereby Plaintiff’s interest in the property was
transferred to her mother as a bona fide gift, but she alleges that she had no
knowledge of the fraudulent transfer of title and did not agree to relinquish
her interest.  Plaintiff alleges she
lived at the property for 14-15 years without knowledge of the transfer and
made mortgage payments.  Plaintiff
alleges that in May 2022, her mother changed the locks to the property to
prevent her from entering and thereafter learned of the fraudulent
transfer.  On June 3, 2022, Plaintiff
alleges she discovered that the property was listed for sale.  On June 15, 2022, she alleges she went to the
property to collect her mail and she encountered Defendant Michael McDonald of
Compass (real estate agent), who threatened her.  She also encountered Defendant Mary Anne Been
(another real estate agent) who informed her mother to block her phone
number.  
On September 16, 2022, a third grant deed
(“Third Deed”) was entered, whereby Plaintiff’s mother sold the property to Defendants
Juvelyn Palomique and Stephen Harrison for $780,000.  She alleges that McDonald and Been, by and
through Compass, and Defendant Robert Reffkin facilitated the sale of the
property.   
Plaintiff alleges that she has attempted
to approach the property to obtain her mail, but has been denied access.  She alleges that the sale was wrongful,
because her signature on the second grant deed was forged. 
The complaint, filed February 10, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) quiet title; and (2) fraud.
The Court notes that Plaintiff attempted
to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on April 2, 2024, alleging causes of
action for: (1) fraud; and (2) fraud.  She
attempted to file the FAC after Plaintiff had filed on February 13, 2024, a
motion to dismiss the 1st cause of action in the initial complaint
for Defendant’s failure to timely file an FAC following the Court’s ruling
sustaining a demurrer to the 1st cause of action in the initial
complaint with 20 days leave to amend on November 3, 2023.  The hearing on the motion to dismiss was held
on April 5, 2024 and the Court entered an order dismissing the 1st
cause of action for quiet title in the initial complaint.  Plaintiff’s improper and belatedly filed FAC was
stricken by the Court on June 24, 2024.  The operative pleading shall be the initially
filed complaint. 
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar 
On April 10, 2024, Defendant Sandra D.
Santopietro (“Defendant”) filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff
on the remaining causes of action in the complaint and for costs of suit.  In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks summary
adjudication that plaintiff cannot establish all of the necessary elements of
the 2nd cause of action for fraud and for the prayer for punitive
damages in connection with the 2nd cause of action, such that Plaintiff
is entitled to final judgment.  On May
21, 2024, Plaintiff (in pro per) filed an opposition brief. On June 21, 2024,
Defendant filed reply papers.
The motion for
summary judgment came for hearing on June 28, 2024.  The Court heard oral arguments and took the
matter under submission. The Court gave Plaintiff 5 court days to file a
document stating where the notary book was located.  On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed a
supplemental brief with information stating that the notary book was being held
at the Los Angeles County Recorder’s office, as evidenced by Exhibit 6 of the
moving papers.
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte motion for continuance of the summary judgment hearing.  The Court held a hearing on the ex parte
application on July 3, 2024; Plaintiff appeared and no appearances were made by
Defendants. The Court took the ex parte application under submission.  On July 8, 2024, the Court issued its ruling
on the ex parte application, setting it for hearing on July 26, 2024.  The Court ordered Defendant to file and serve
an opposition brief by the end of the business day on July 19, 2024.  The Court ordered the motion for summary
judgment to remain under submission, but expressed its consideration of
continuing the hearing on the motion for summary judgment for approximately 90
days to allow Plaintiff a final opportunity to gather evidence. The Court did
not permit any further briefing.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication on the remaining cause of
action for fraud and the issue of punitive damages in the complaint.  
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte application for continuance under CCP § 437c(h).  On July 3, 2024, the Court noted in its
minute order that Defendants did not appear at the hearing on the application. 
The Court originally ordered Defendant to
file an opposition brief to Plaintiff’s ex parte application by the end of the
business day on July 19, 2024.  However,
the court experienced a court-wide technology issue such that filings were not
permitted.  As such, the Court will order
Defendant to file and serve an opposition by the end of the business day on
July 30, 2024.  The Court will continue
the hearing on the ex parte application and set it for hearing on August 2,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. 
As stated in the
Court’s prior July 8, 2024 order: 
When
the Court took this matter under submission, the Court’s tentative ruling had
been to grant the motion. Based on the review of the evidence submitted, and
the flood of evidence that Plaintiff Michele Santopietro submitted ex parte,
the Court is considering continuing the motion for summary judgment by about 90
days to allow Plaintiff to gather more evidence. The concerns of the Court in
this regard are as follows: 
a.
There is a basic conflict in the evidence: Michele Santopietro testifies that
her signature is forged; Sandra Santopietro testifies that it was not. Michele Santopietro
has not done much to enhance the credibility of her allegation. Moreover, her
somewhat wild style of allegation has tended to damage her credibility. And the
fact that she seems to sign her name differently every time she signs it hardly
makes a determination easy and is suspicious in and of itself.  Nevertheless, the rules of summary judgment
permit the Court to make credibility determinations only in very limited
circumstances. 
b.
The copies of the notary book seem in good order, and Ms. Michele Santopietro
has done nothing to substantiate her allegations of irregularity. Somewhere,
perhaps in a previous notary entry, there must be an exemplar of her
fingerprint such that the genuineness of the fingerprint can be established.
Even if such an exemplar does not exist, Michele Santopietro could submit her
current fingerprint. The Court is inclined to continue the matter for a
sufficient interlude to allow Michele Santopietro to present fingerprint
evidence. Of course, Defendants could also submit such evidence. 
c.
Michele Santopietro alleges that her mother Sandra Santopietro is incompetent
to execute the declaration that forms the basis of the summary judgment motion.
Sandra Santopietro’s declaration is somewhat conclusory and she does admit that
Michele Santopietro maintained keys to the property before it was sold. Sandra
Santopietro’s declaration is submitted from an out of state location that
corresponds to where Michele Santopietro alleges that Sandra Santopietro has
been placed in a care home. After reviewing the timetable of the litigation,
the Court is inclined to let Michele Santopietro undertake to support her
allegations with evidence. A 90-day continuance should be sufficient for this
purpose. 
All
of these tentative thoughts are subject to the Court’s review of an opposition
to Michele Santopietro’s ex parte. 
The
Court is concerned enough by Michele Santopietro’s previous litigation conduct
to caution that if there is a continuance to allow further support for an
opposition, there will only be one continuance. Michele Santopietro now appears
to have a pattern of late responses that require continuances and further
examinations of evidence that should have previously been submitted.
Nevertheless, the Court is inclined to give her one last chance to come up with
additional admissible evidence in support of her claims.
(July 8, 2024
Order at pp.4-5.)  
The
Court will allow one final continuance on the ex parte application matter.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court sets a hearing on Plaintiff’s ex
parte application for a continuance of the motion for summary judgment for August
2, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Defendant is
ordered to file and serve an opposition brief by July 30, 2024 by the end of
the business day.  The matter of Defendant
Sandra D. Santopietro’s motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication remains under submission, but the Court is considering continuing
the hearing on that matter for approximately 90 days to allow Plaintiff Michele
Santopietro a final opportunity to gather evidence. No further briefing shall
be permitted.  
Defendant shall give notice of this
order.  
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 