 Case Number:  23BBCV02095    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
oscar ochoa, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
american honda
  motor co., inc., et al.,
 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02095
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel deposition; and motion to compel further
  responses to request fcor production, set two
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Oscar Ochoa (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on March 31, 2022, he purchased a 2019 Honda HR-V, which was a certified
pre-owned (“CPO”) purchase that was accompanied by Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc.’s (“AHM”) new and full CPO warranty, such that the vehicle
constitutes a “new motor vehicle” under the Act.  Plaintiff alleges that the causes of action
arise out of the warranty and repair obligations of AHM in connection with the
vehicle for which AHM issued a written warranty.  Plaintiff alleges that the subject vehicle
was delivered with serious defects and nonconformities to the warranty,
including electrical and transmission system defects.  Plaintiff alleges that he presented the
vehicle for repairs in July 2022 for the vehicle’s mileage gauge
malfunctioning, October 2022 for an inoperative phone charger, February 2023
for the vehicle intermittently not accelerating faster than 40 mph, in May 2023
for the vehicle not accelerating and having difficulty shifting, and in June
2023 for the vehicle losing power at speeds higher than 55 mph and not
accelerating.  Plaintiff alleges that he
hereby revokes acceptance of the sales contract. 
The complaint, filed September 12, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty against AHM; (2) violation of the Act – breach of implied
warranty against AHM; (3) violation of the Act, section 1793.2(b) against AHM AHM
and (4) negligent repair against Defendant Keyval, Inc. dba Keyes Honda
(“Keyes”). 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel the deposition of AHM’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) and
production of documents to RPD Nos. 1-18. 
On July 15, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief. 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel further responses to request for production, set two (“RPD”), set
one, Nos. 1-101 from Defendant AHM.  On
July 15, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief.  On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PMK 
            Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of AHM’s PMK concerning AHM’s alleged inability to repair
Plaintiff’s vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts and for failing to
compensate Plaintiff despite AHM’s alleged knowledge that Plaintiff’s vehicle
suffered from serious defects and nonconformity to warranty.  
            Plaintiff states that on February 1,
2024, Plaintiff served the deposition notice for AHM’s PMK.  (Mot., Ex. 1.)  On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff served an
amended deposition notice.  (Mot., Ex.
2.)  On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff served the
second deposition notice, seeking 34 deposition categories and 18 RPDs.  (Mot., Ex. 3.)  Plaintiff argues that AHM did not respond to
any of the deposition notices (Mot. at p.4), but also argues that Plaintiff
attempted to meet and confer to discuss AHM’s objections (Mot. at pp. 5, 7).  Plaintiff argues that his counsel attempted
to meet and confer with AHM from April 2024 to May 2024 regarding the PMK
deposition, AHM’s objections, and to discuss alternate dates.  The Court notes that AHM’s opposition papers
include a copy of AHM’s objections to the original deposition notice (dated
June 25, 2024), amended deposition notice (dated June 20, 2024), and the second
deposition notice (dated June 27, 2024), but these are dated after the filing
of the motion papers on June 17, 2024.  (Opp.
at Exs. E-G.)  It is unclear if AHM
provided different objections that predate the motion.  
AHM argues that the motion should be
denied because AHM agreed to produce a witness and documents for the RPDs on
December 18, 2024 subject to reasonable limitations (trial is scheduled for
March 10, 2025), Plaintiff has refused to meet and confer, the motion is not
accompanied by a separate statement, and the deposition notice is
objectionable.     
Plaintiff has not accompanied the motion
with a separate statement for the 34 categories of deposition topics and 18
RPDs.  CRC Rule 3.1345 requires that
motions seeking to compel answers at a deposition and to compel the production
of documents at a deposition must be accompanied by a separate statement,
except where no response has been provided to the request of discovery or where
the Court has allowed the moving party to submit a concise outline in lieu of a
separate statement.  (CRC Rule 3.1345(a)
and (b).)  Here, it appears that AHM
provided objections in response to the deposition notices.  (See Mot., Ex. 4 [Plaintiff’s April 15, 2024
Letter acknowledging AHM’s “boilerplate objections”]; Ex. 5 [Plaintiff’s May 3,
2024 Letter acknowledging AHM’s “boilerplate objections”].)  
At this time, the Court will continue the
hearing on the motion to compel the deposition. The parties are ordered to meet
and confer regarding AHM’s objections to the second deposition notice (dated
June 27, 2024).  Plaintiff is ordered to
file a separate statement or concise outline (i.e., grouping deposition similar
deposition categories and RPDs, discussing them with AHM’s objections, and the
reasons for why the deposition categories should go forward and the RPDs should
be produced).  The separate statement
should detail what matters have been resolved and what issues remain.  Further, while the jury trial is set for
March 10, 2025, AHM’s offer to produce a PMK by December 18, 2024 is too
delayed and AHM has not explained why a date so far out is the only available
date for its PMK.  The parties should
meet and confer regarding a PMK deposition date that is within 90 days of this
order.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
            Plaintiff
moves to compel AHM’s further responses to RPD, set two, Nos. 1-101.  RPD Nos. 1-9 relate to AHM’s policies and
procedures for handling Song-Beverly cases and the subject vehicle; and RPD
Nos. 10-101 relate to AHM’s internal investigations of the defects exhibited in
the subject vehicle including electrical defects (Nos. 10-32), engine defects
(Nos. 33-55), structural defects (Nos. 56-78), and transmission defects (Nos.
79-101).  
            AHM
argues that it did not initially provide substantive responses to the RPDs
because Plaintiff improperly served AHM by electronic service rather than mail
service.  AHM states that it will be
providing further responses to “most” of the RPDs after the parties meet and
confer.   AHM has not specified which
RPDs it will be providing further responses to and when responses will be
provided.  To aid the parties and prevent
further delay of discovery, the Court will discuss the merits of the motion. 
            RPD
No. 1 seeks all documents referencing,
evidencing, and/or relating to AHM’s policies, procedures, or guidelines for
determining whether a vehicle is eligible for a vehicle repurchase under the
Act.  RPD No. 2 seeks all
documents regarding the subject vehicle that are within AHM’s Customer Relations
Center.  RPD No. 3 seeks all
documents regarding any service, warranty, and other documents that relate to, or
may relate to, the alleged defect in the subject vehicle, that AHM issued to
any dealer, regional or zone offices, fleet purchasers, or other entities. RPD
No. 4 seeks AHM’s recall policy and procedure.  RPD No. 5 seeks all documents, including
live telephone call records, audio records, tape recordings, voice messaging
records, caller message recordings, digital voice recordings, interactive voice
response unit (IVR/VRV) recordings, unified messaging files, and computer-based
voice mail files between AHM and/or AHM’s call center representative(s) and AHM’s
authorized dealers regarding the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 6 seeks all documents/ESI
setting forth AHM’s document retention policy from 2011 to the present,
including retention policies for electronic data communications.  RPD No. 7 seeks all documents which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to AHM’s rules, policies, or procedures
since 2011 concerning the issuance of refunds to buyers or providing
replacement vehicles to buyers in California under the Act.  RPD No. 8 seeks all documents that AHM
used, since 2011, to evaluate consumers’ requests for repurchases pursuant to
the Act.  RPD No. 9 seeks all documents
reflecting AHM’s plans, policies, procedures, programs, or measures, since
2011, for achieving any of AHM’s warranty buyback reduction goals.  AHM objected to RPD Nos. 1-9 on the basis
that they were vague and overly broad, sought irrelevant
documents, failed to describe with reasonable particularity the documents
requested, and sought documents on behalf of other entities.  
The Court finds
that the RPDs are overly broad in that they seek documents pertaining to any
type of vehicle without reference to any time period.  This action involves a pre-owned 2019 Honda HR-V
that Plaintiff purchased on March 31, 2022. 
The Court will limit the discovery to documents from 2019 to the
present, pertaining/applying to the same year, make, and model as the subject
vehicle, and limited to Los Angeles County, California.  To the extent that there may be documents
that are privileged, the Court will allow AHM to produce a privilege log or allow
the production pursuant to a protective order. 
The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 1-9 to this limited extent.  
RPD Nos. 10-32 relate to AHM’s
internal investigations of the defects exhibits in the subject vehicle
regarding Electrical Defects: 
·        
RPD No. 10
seeks all documents/ESI/emails concerning, referring, or relating to any field
technical reports (“FTRs”) from AHM’s agents, representatives, or employees to AHM
which provide it with information relating to warranty parts replacement trends
relating to the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the Subject Vehicle. 
·        
RPD No. 11
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any
internal analysis or investigation by AHM or on AHM’s behalf regarding the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.  
·        
RPD No. 12
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to AHM’s
decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, TSBs,
and recalls concerning the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.  
·        
RPD No. 13
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any
internal analysis/investigation by AHM or on AHM’s behalf concerning the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 14
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any FTRs from
AHM’s agents, representatives, or employees to AHM which provide AHM with
information relating to common parts failures relating to the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 15 seeks
all documents/ESI/email concerning customer complaints, claims, reported
failures, and warranty claims related to the Electrical Defects in vehicles of
the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. 
·        
RPD No. 16
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to Failure
Mode and Effects Analysis reports (or comparable root cause analyses)
concerning the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 17
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any NHTSA complaints
regarding the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model
as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 18
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any Early
Warning Reports (“EWR”) complaints regarding the Electrical Defects in vehicles
of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 19
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any
Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (“TREAD”)
complaints regarding the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 20
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning customer complaints, claims, reported
failures, and warranty claims related to Electrical Defects in vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle, including any databases in AHM’s
possession with information from dealers, service departments, part
departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning its response
to each complaint, claim or reported failure.
·        
RPD No. 21
seeks all documents/ESI/emails that were sent, received, prepared, and/or
reviewed by AHM’s Field Review Committee or its equivalent regarding any
investigation, reports, surveys, countermeasure, or failures, regarding the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 22
seeks all documents/ESI/emails within AHM’s customer satisfaction surveys, or
the equivalent, regarding the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 23 seeks all documents/ESI/email
concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from AHM’s
agents, representatives, or employees to AHM which provide AHM with information
relating to suggested repair procedures for commonly observed problems relating
to Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 24
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning, referring, or relating to any field
technical reports from AHM’s agents, representatives, or employees to AHM which
provide it with information relating to repeat repair failures relating to Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 25
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning any internal analysis or investigation
by AHM or on its behalf regarding Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. 
·        
RPD No. 26
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning any customer concerns AHM has relating
Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject
Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 27
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning any decision to issue notices,
letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, TSBs, and recalls concerning the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 28
seeks all documents/ESI/email, concerning any decision to modify any component
parts in response to the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 29
seeks all documents/ESI/email concerning any fixes in response to the Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 30 seeks
all documents/ESI/email concerning any internal investigation and analysis by AHM
or on its behalf regarding the Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. 
·        
RPD No. 31
seeks all documents related to any email which in any way relate to Electrical
Defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
·        
RPD No. 32 seeks
all documents/ESI/email, concerning any internal analysis or investigation by AHM
or on its behalf regarding Electrical Defects in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.
RPD Nos.
33-35 regarding Engine Defects, Nos. 56-78 regarding Structural Defects, and
Nos. 79-101 regarding Transmission Defects follow the same pattern as Nos.
10-32 (Electrical Defects).  As such,
Nos. 10-101 will be discussed together.  The
RPDs define the defects as follows:
·        
“Electrical
Defects” refers to “defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing
the mileage gauge to display incorrectly; defects resulting in the mileage
gauge being distorted; defects leading to replace the mileage gauge control;
defects involving a faulty USB port that cannot be used; and/or other similar
concerns identified in the repair history for the Subject Vehicle.”
·        
“Engine
Defects” refers to “defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing
the vehicle not to accelerate over 55 mph intermittently; defects causing the
vehicle to lose power; and/or other similar concerns identified in the repair history
for the Subject Vehicle.”
·        
“Structural
Defects” refers to “defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing
the mileage gauge to display incorrectly; defects resulting in the mileage
gauge being distorted; defects leading to replace the mileage gauge control;
defects involving a faulty USB port that cannot be used; and/or other similar
concerns identified in the repair history for the Subject Vehicle.”
·        
“Transmission
Defects” refer to “defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing
the vehicle not to respond when accelerating; defects causing the vehicle to
have a hard shift; defects leading to perform a TCM software update; and/or other
similar concerns identified in the repair history for the Subject Vehicle.”
(Mot. at Ex. 3 [RPD, set two, at p. 2].)  
AHM
objected to these RPDs on the basis that they were vague
and overly broad, sought irrelevant documents, sought documents for unrelated
part failures in other vehicles of the same year/make/model, sought documents
beyond the scope of Plaintiff’s complaint, failed to describe with reasonable
particularity the documents requested, and sought documents on behalf of other
entities.  AHM argues that the “defect”
terms are imprecise and overbroad and that the RPDs virtually seek all
documents at AHM relating to each and every one of the 13 listed defects in the
clumped definitions above.  However, in
its separate statement, AHM states that it will be producing further
substantive responses to most of the requests. 
To aid the parties in their discovery matters, the Court will limit the
discovery that should be produced.  Although these RPDs are limited to the vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the Subject Vehicle, the responses shall be further limited to
documents from 2019 to the present and within Los Angeles County only.  Further, if, upon review of AHM’s further
responses, Plaintiff finds that the responses are lacking, the parties should
meet and confer about the definitions of the Electrical, Engine, Structural,
and Transmission Defects that Plaintiff is claiming in the subject vehicle. The
motion to compel further responses to RPD Nos. 10-101 is granted to this
limited extent based on AHM’s representations that further responses are
forthcoming.   
No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Oscar Ochoa’s motion to compel
the deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s person most
knowledgeable is continued to August 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer
regarding AHM’s objections to the second deposition notice (dated June 27,
2024) and the deposition PMK date that is within 90 days of this order.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a separate
statement or concise outline (i.e., grouping deposition similar deposition categories
and RPDs, discussing them with AHM’s objections, and the reasons for why the
deposition categories should go forward and the RPDs should be produced).  The separate statement should detail what
matters have been resolved and what issues remain.  Plaintiff’s separate statement shall be due
by August 12, 2024 and Defendant’s responsive separate statement shall be due
by August 16, 2024.  
             Plaintiff Oscar Ochoa’s motion to compel Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s further responses to RPD, set two, Nos. 1-101
is granted subject to the limitations stated in this written order and based on
Defendant’s representations that further responses will be produced.  Defendant is ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order.  No sanctions were requested. 
Plaintiff shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: July 26,
2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court     