 Case Number:  22BBCV01254    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
martha burrola, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
the vons
  companies, inc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV01254
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment; and motions to compel responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Martha
Burrola (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on December 23, 2020, as she was existing a
Pavilions grocery store, she walked across a clear liquid substance at the
entrance and exit door and on the adjacent parking area and painted
crosswalk.  She alleges that this caused
the area to be slippery when walked over. 
She alleges that there was no warning that the area was wet or
slippery.  As a result, Plaintiff alleges
that she slipped and fell on the painted crosswalk as she was walking towards
her car.  Plaintiff alleges that the
store premises was owned, operated, leased, rented, maintained, and/or managed
by Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”) and that the premises/common
areas were owned, operated, leased, rented, maintained, and/or managed by
Defendant The Decurion Corporation (“Decurion Corp.”). 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
June 28, 2023, alleges a cause of action for negligence, premises liability. 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff named Rancho
Marketplace Gateway, LLC as Doe 6 (“Rancho”); Robertson Properties Group as Doe
7 (“Robertson”); and Decurion Management Company as Doe 8 (“Decurion Management”).  
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On April 11, 2023,
Vons filed a cross-complaint against Rancho for: (1) breach of contract; (2)
implied indemnity; (3) express indemnity; (4) contribution and apportionment;
and (5) declaratory relief. 
On July 13, 2023,
Rancho filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1-25 for: (1) equitable/implied
indemnity; (2) contribution and apportionment; (3) declaratory relief; (4) breach
of contract; and (5) express indemnity.  On
May 10, 2024, Rancho named The Vons Companies Inc. as Moe 1.  
On July 18, 2023,
Decurion Corp. filed a cross-complaint against Foes 1-25 for: (1)
equitable/implied indemnity; (2) contribution and apportionment; (3)
declaratory relief; (4) breach of contract; and (5) express indemnity.  
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
On May 10, 2024, Decurion Corp. filed a
motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff on the sole cause of action for
premises liability in the FAC.  The Court
is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 

            On June 25 and 28, 2024, Rancho
filed 3 motions to compel Plaintiff’s initial responses to: (1) Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”); (2) Special Interrogatories (“SROG”); and Document
Demands (“DD”).  The Court is not in
receipt of an opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION RE MSJ
            Decurion
Corp. moves for summary judgment in its favor and against Plaintiff on the sole
cause of action for premises liability in the complaint.            
The elements of a premises liability claim
and negligence claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury. 
(Kesner v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)  Because a
landowner is not the insurer of a visitor’s safety, the owner’s actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing
liability.  (Hall v. Aurora Loan Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134,
1139.)  Ordinarily, where there is a
dangerous condition on the business proprietor’s property, the plaintiff must
prove that the defendant had actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition for a sufficient time to remedy or warn of the danger.  (Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205-07.)  
In support of the motion, Decurion
provides the following undisputed material facts.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on December 19,
2022, alleging that she slipped and fell on
December 23, 2020 (“Incident”) on a crosswalk in the parking lot in front of
Vons Pavilions located at 1110 West Alameda Avenue, Burbank, California (the
“Subject Property”).  (Fact 1.)  On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the FAC
with a single claim for premises liability, which alleged that she was injured
after she slipped and fell in a “clear liquid substance existed at the entrance
and exit door to the Pavilions grocery store and on the adjacent parking area
and painted crosswalk causing the area to be slippery when walked over.”  (Fact 2.) 
On July 18, 2023, Decurion filed its answer to the FAC, asserting
various affirmative defenses including the 9th and 27th
affirmative defenses of “No Causation” and “Lack of Duty –
Foreseeability.”  (Fact 3.)  
The
Subject Property at the time of the Incident was being leased to lessee Vons by
lessor Rancho pursuant to the original lease dated July 17, 1989, as amended by
the Lease Modification Agreement dated November 15, 2005.  (Fact 4.) 
Rancho owned the Subject Property following a grant deed conveyance from
California Drive-In Theatres Inc. dated July 7, 2004.  (Fact 9.) Rancho is a limited liability
company organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware with
“active” status with the California Secretary of State. (Fact 10.)  Decurion is a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of California with “active” status with
the California Secretary of State and it did not own or hold title to the
Subject Property at the time of the Incident on December 23, 2020. (Fact 10.)
Decurion is a holding company for various subsidiaries that manage and control
various commercial real estate assets, including Rancho, the owner and lessor
of the Subject Property. (Fact 11.) 
Decurion was not a party to any leasing agreement governing the Subject
Property at the time of the Incident on December 23, 2020. (Fact 12.)  Decurion was not in any way involved in the
daily management, control and maintenance of the parking lot at the Subject
Property at the time of the Incident on December 23, 2020.  (Fact 13.) 

Plaintiff
produced photographs which she claims depict the parking lot area at the
Subject Property where she slipped and fell, as well as the crosswalk painted
stripes which allegedly became slippery when wet.  (Fact 5-6.) 
Decurion served SROG, set one, Nos. 11-13 on Plaintiff requesting the
identification of all evidence supporting her contention that Decurion owned,
managed, and controlled the parking lot area where the incident occurred, to
which Plaintiff responded on September 25, 2023, stating that she could not
identify any witness or document to support her contention. (Fact 7-8.)
Based on
the undisputed material facts and evidence provided by Decurion, Decurion has
shown that it did not own, lease, occupy, or control the Subject Premises but
that Rancho was the owner of the Subject Premises who leased the property to
Vons.  Decurion has shown that Plaintiff
did not produce discovery responses showing that that Decurion owned, managed,
or controlled the parking lot where the Incident occurred.  Decurion argues that since it did not own,
possess, or control the Subject Premises and was merely a holding corporation
of Rancho, it owed no duty to Plaintiff. 
(See Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 CalApp.4th
523, 538-539 [discussing the alter ego doctrine and recognizing that the parent
company is not necessarily exposed to liability for its subsidiary’s
obligations].)  The Court finds that
Decurion has upheld its initial burden in summary judgment.  
The burden
shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  No opposition has been filed and, thus, Plaintiff
has not raised any arguments or triable issues of material fact regarding
whether Decurion owned, leased, occupied, or controlled the Subject Premises or
whether the alter ego doctrine should apply. 

As such, Decurion’s
motion for summary judgment is granted.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL
Rancho moves to
compel Plaintiff’s initial responses to the FROG, SROG, and RPD.  
On February 3,
2024, Rancho served on Plaintiff the FROG requests.  On April 11, 2024, Rancho served on Plaintiff
the SROG and RPD requests.  Rancho states
that Plaintiff did not serve objections or request an extension.  Rancho’s counsel attempted to meet and confer
with Plaintiff’s counsel, but did not receive a response from Plaintiff’s
counsel.  As of the filing of the
motions, Rancho states that it has not received responses from Plaintiff.  
Rancho’s unopposed motions
to compel responses to the FROG, SROG, and RPD are granted pursuant to CCP §§
2030.290 and 2031.300.  Plaintiff is
ordered to provide verified responses to Rancho’s discovery
requests, without
objections, within 20 days of notice of this order.  
Rancho requests
sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorney in the amount of $1,920 for each
motion (= [1 hour to prepare the motion + 2 hours to attend the hearing + 1
hour to review the opposition + 1 hour to prepare the reply, at $450/hour] +
$60 in filing fees + $20 for parking).  The
requests are granted in the reasonable amount of $1,000 in attorney’s fees and
$180 in filing fees, for a total of $1,180. 
The motions are relatively simple motions to compel initial responses
and are unopposed.  The Court also notes
that Burbank Courthouse does not charge for parking.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant The
Decurion Corporation’s motion for summary judgment is granted as to the sole
cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Defendant The Decurion Corporation is
dismissed with prejudice. 
Defendant Rancho Marketplace
Gateway, LLC’s motions to compel responses to the FROG, SROG, and RPD are
granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified responses to Rancho’s discovery requests, without
objections, within 20 days of notice of this order.  Plaintiff and her counsel
of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1,080 to Defendant, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice
of this order.
Each moving party shall provide notice of
their respective order. 
 
 
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 