 Case Number:  24BBCV00113    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
cameron berta,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
state farm
  mutual automobile insurance company, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00113
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Cameron Berta (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that this action involves an insurance breach of contract and bad faith arising
from an insurance claim Plaintiff made to his insurer, Defendant State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm”) in connection with sideswipe
damage to Plaintiff’s 2017 Bentley Bentayga. 
Plaintiff alleges that on March 28, 2022, while Plaintiff’s wife Emma
Harutunyan was driving the vehicle, it was damaged as a result of a sideswipe collision
with a dumpster that was jutting into Coldwater Canyon Avenue.  Plaintiff alleges that despite submitting a
claim and overwhelming evidence of comprehensive automobile policy benefits due
and owing, Defendant refused to pay the policy benefits owed to Plaintiff.  He alleges that Defendant was presented with evidence proving that the loss was caused by a covered event,
including damage that directly corresponded point of impact, admission of fault
by Plaintiff, and nearly 200 pages of testimony under oath, but Defendant did
not adequately consider such information and evidence, and did not reasonably
adjust the claim.  He alleges that
Defendant has failed and refused to pay Plaintiff under the terms of his
insurance policy for the damage caused to his vehicle and Defendant’s refusal
to honor its clear obligations under the policy was unjustified and
unacceptable.  Thus, Plaintiff filed this
action to recover damages and punitive damages for Defendant’s bad faith
mishandling of his insurance claim. 
The complaint, filed January 16, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; and (2) tortious breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to strike the punitive damages portions of Plaintiff’s complaint.  
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.
On July 18, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the complaint alleging punitive damages.  (See Notice of Motion at pp. 2-4; Compl., ¶13
at lines 16-20, 4:11-12, 5:22-23, ¶ 48 at lines 5-7, 6:9, 49:11-13, ¶51, ¶52 at
lines 19-21, ¶53, ¶55, 7:9-10, ¶78, and Item 2 of the prayer.)
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
In the
complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant unjustly, unreasonably, and
maliciously denied Plaintiff’s claim for insurance benefits related to his
covered loss after Plaintiff had promptly filed its claim with Defendant, Defendant
without justification denied Plaintiff’s claim on April 29, 2022, and Defendant
again denied Plaintiff’s claim on January 20, 2023 under the false pretenses
that Plaintiff failed to cooperate with the investigation.  (Compl. at 4:11-12, ¶¶31-42, Ex. A [January
20, 2023 Denial Letter].)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant knew Plaintiff’s claim was covered under the insurance
policy prior to issuing the January 20, 2023 denial letter, Defendant had no
reasonable basis to conclude that the damage was man-made and intentionally
inflicted, such that Defendant’s denial was on pretextual grounds as an act of
malice towards Plaintiff intended to subject him to unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of his rights. 
(Compl. at 5:22-23, ¶¶44-48.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant maliciously refused to tender the benefits to Plaintiff
due to the high value of the vehicle and corresponding magnitude of loss and
that Defendant’s denial demonstrated deliberate intent to cause injury to
Plaintiff, the denial was a malicious effort to create artificial evidentiary
hurdles to oppress Plaintiff and deprive him of the benefits under the policy,
and Defendant knowingly and falsely asserted that the damage was man-made and intentionally
inflicted to delay plaintiff from obtaining insurance benefits.  (Compl. at 6:9-10, ¶¶49-53.)  Paragraph 55 alleges: “Plaintiff is informed and believes that State Farm’s malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent attempts to deprive him of his rights under the
insurance contract are part of a broader pattern and practice of denying
high-value property damage claims in furtherance of an unlawful profit scheme,
in violation of Insurance Code § 790.03(h), that deprives affected individuals
of their contractual, common-law, and/or statutory rights by forcing them to
engage in protracted and costly litigation against State Farm in situations
where State Farm’s liability is reasonably clear.  (Compl., ¶55.) 
In the 2nd cause of action, he alleges that Defendant’s bad
faith conduct was intentional malicious, wanton, and oppressive, with a willful
and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights under the policy and with intent
to deprive Plaintiff of the coverage that Defendant represented Plaintiff would
receive, such that section 3294 punitive damages are warranted to punish and
deter Defendant from engaging in similar conduct in the future.  (Compl., ¶78.)  
            The
January 20, 2023 letter is attached as Exhibit A to the complaint.  In the letter, Defendant states that it has
completed its investigation regarding the claim and that Defendant has denied
the claim due to a breach of the insured’s duties regarding the insured’s duty
to cooperate and violation of the concealment or fraud provision in the
policy.  Defendant states that its
forensic automobile mechanical engineer thoroughly investigated the vehicle and
obtained Plaintiff and Emma Harutyunyan’s examination under oath (EUO), which
revealed that that damage did not occur as they claimed; rather, the physical
evidence was “grossly inconsistent,” and the damage was “man-made” and
“intentionally inflicted.”  The letter
included portions of the policy stating that there was no coverage for
intentionally damaged vehicles; delineated the insured’s duties regarding
notice of the accident and the insured’s duties to cooperate; and that there is
no coverage for false statements with the intent to conceal or misrepresent
material facts or circumstances.  
            As
currently worded, the complaint fails to allege specific facts that Defendant
acted intentionally, maliciously, oppressively, or with fraud when denying
Plaintiff’s claim.  Based on the
allegations of the complaint, Defendant investigated Plaintiff’s claims,
undertook their own analysis on how the accident occurred, requested documents
from Plaintiff, and ultimately denied coverage after months of review.  At most, Plaintiff has alleged that he
submitted an insurance claim to Defendant, Defendant conducted an
investigation, and Defendant denied the claim, which was contrary to the result
Plaintiff was anticipating.  While the
Court takes the allegations of the complaint as true, including allegations
regarding Defendant’s intentionality or malicious/oppressive behavior to deny
the claim, such allegations must be alleged with the requisite specificity in
order to pursue punitive damages.  Currently,
the allegations are general and conclusory. 
Moreover, the Plaintiff has attached Defendant’s position regarding the
claim. Defendant’s position and Plaintiff’s position represent opposing
viewpoints, and state mere opinions. There are no specific facts from which it
can be determined whether either position is true or untrue. It may be that
based on discovery the Plaintiff can show specific statements that are true or
untrue and that were made knowing of their truth and for a malicious purposes,
but for now what is shown from the few facts alleged is a conflict of opinions
regarding the evidence. 
            For
these reasons, the motion to strike the allegations for punitive damages is
granted with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company’s motion to strike is granted with 20
days leave to amend. 
Defendant shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 