 Case Number:  24BBCV00508    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
robert
  E. Bartlett, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
Uber
  technologies inc., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00508
 
  Hearing Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel arbitration and to
  dismiss or stay action pending completion of arbitration 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Robert E. Bartlett (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on November 23, 2023, he was involved in a motor vehicle accident
with Defendant Avetis Hasratyan (“Hasratyan”), who was employed by Defendant
Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”).  He
also alleges that the accident involved another motor vehicle operated by
Defendant Marco Sandoval (“Sandoval”).  
The complaint, filed February 29, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle against Hasratyan and Uber; and
(2) motor vehicle against Sandoval.  
B.    
Cross-Complaint 
On June 7, 2024, Sandoval filed a
cross-complaint against Hasratyan and Uber for: (1) negligence (property
damage); (2) equitable indemnity; (3) apportionment of fault/contribution; and
(4) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On May 30, 2024, Uber filed a motion to
compel Plaintiff to submit all claims asserted against Uber to binding
arbitration with ADR Services, Inc.  Uber
also seeks an order that the proceedings be dismissed or stayed until the
conclusion of the arbitration. 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
untimely opposition brief.  (The
opposition was due by July 15, 2024). 
On July 24, 2024, Uber filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Uber moves to compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate his claims against Uber based on the Terms of Service and pursuant to
the FAA.  
A.   
Terms of the Arbitration Agreement
Uber argues that Plaintiff was a rider in
a vehicle driven by Hasratyan (allegedly during the course of his employment
with Uber), who was involved in a collision with another vehicle.  Uber states that non-party Bree Bartlett
(“Account Holder,” son of Plaintiff) requested the subject ride on Plaintiff’s
behalf.  Uber argues that Account Holder
initially accepted Uber’s February 12, 2015 Terms of Service, and that he more
recently accepted the Terms of Service on November 14, 2016, July 17, 2021,
January 4, 2022, and January 28, 2023—all of which included an arbitration
agreement.  (Yu Decl., ¶¶15-16.)  Uber argues that the July 2021 and January
2023 Terms of Service required that any third party, including but not limited
to spouses, heirs, third-party beneficiaries, and assigns to arbitrate their
claims against Uber for underlying claims arising out of relating to the
Account Holder’s use of the services.  (Id.,
Ex. H [July 2021 Terms of Service, § 2(a).) 

In support of the
motion, Uber provides the declaration of Chenshan Yu, a Data Scientist employed
by Uber.  Mr. Yu provides the July 12,
2021 and January 17, 2023 Terms of Service. 
As the subject accident occurred on November 23, 2023, the relevant
terms of the January 17, 2023 Arbitration Agreement state:  
2.
Arbitration Agreement
By agreeing to these Terms, you
agree that you are required to resolve any claim that you may have against Uber
on an individual basis in arbitration as set forth in this Arbitration
Agreement, and not as a class, collective, coordinated, consolidated, mass
and/or representative action. You and Uber are each waiving your right to a
trial by jury. … 
(a) Agreement to Binding
Arbitration Between You and Uber.
(1) Covered Disputes: Except
as expressly provided below in Section 2(b), you and Uber agree that any
dispute, claim, or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to (i)
these Terms and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach,
termination, enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof;
(ii) your access to or use of the Services at any time; (iii) incidents or
accidents resulting in personal injury to you or anyone else that you allege
occurred in connection with your use of the Services (including, but not
limited to, your use of the Uber Marketplace Platform or the driver version of
the Uber App), regardless whether the dispute, claim, or controversy occurred
or accrued before or after the date you agreed to these Terms, and regardless
whether you allege that the personal injury was experienced by you or anyone
else; and (iv) your relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding
individual arbitration between you and Uber, and not in a court of law. This
Arbitration Agreement survives after your relationship with Uber ends.
…
(4) Delegation Clause: Only
an arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have
exclusive authority to resolve any dispute arising out of or relating to the
interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of this Arbitration
Agreement, including without limitation any claim that all or any part of this
Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. An arbitrator shall also have
exclusive authority to resolve all threshold arbitrability issues, including
issues relating to whether these Terms are applicable, unconscionable, or
illusory and any defense to arbitration, including without limitation waiver,
delay, laches, or estoppel. …
(5) Application to Third Parties:
This Arbitration Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall include any claims
brought by or against any third parties, including but not limited to your
spouses, heirs, third-party beneficiaries and assigns, where their underlying
claims arise out of or relate to your use of the Services. To the extent that
any third-party beneficiary to this agreement brings claims against the
Parties, those claims shall also be subject to this Arbitration Agreement.
(Yu
Decl., Ex. H [January 17, 2023 Terms of Use at § 2(a) at pp. 43-44, 46]; see
also [July 12, 2021 Terms of Use, § 2(a)].) 
The Arbitration Agreement states that the agreement to arbitrate is
governed by the FAA, states that the arbitration will be administered by ADR
Service, Inc. in accordance with ADR’s rules, the process for resolving
disputes and initiating arbitration, and has terms about arbitration fees and
awards.  (January 17, 2023 Terms of Use
at § 2(c)-(d) at pp.49-53.)  
            Plaintiff’s
claims are regarding a motor vehicle accident and negligent conduct on the part
of Uber, Hasratyan (who was driving on behalf of Uber), and Sandoval (the other
vehicle operator involved in the accident) while Plaintiff was riding in an
Uber vehicle secured for him by Account Holder Bree Bartlett.  According to the Arbitration Agreement, claims
subject to arbitration include “incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury to [Account
Holder] or anyone else that [Account Holder| allege occurred in connection with
[Account Holder’s] use of the Services …, regardless whether the dispute,
claim, or controversy occurred or accrued before or after the date [Account
Holder] agreed to these Terms, and regardless whether [Account Holder]
allege that the personal injury was experienced by [Account Holder] or anyone
else….”  (January 17, 2023
Terms of Use at § 2(a)(1) [emphasis added].) 
The Arbitration Agreement further states that it shall be binding upon
and include any claims “brought by or against any third parties, including but not limited to
your spouses, heirs, third-party beneficiaries and assigns, where
their underlying claims arise out of or relate to your use of the Services. To
the extent that any third-party beneficiary to this agreement brings claims
against the Parties, those claims shall also be subject to this Arbitration
Agreement.”  (Id. at §2(a)(5)
[emphasis added].)  Based on the terms of
the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff’s claims are covered by the broad scope of
the Arbitration Agreement.  
In addition, although Plaintiff was
not a signatory to the Terms of Use or the Arbitration Agreement and there is
no express agreement between Plaintiff and Uber, he is a third-party
beneficiary contemplated by the Arbitration Agreement.  California
cases binding nonsignatories to arbitrate their claims fall into 2 categories:
(1) “a nonsignatory was required to arbitrate a claim
because a benefit was conferred on the nonsignatory as a result of the
contract, making the nonsignatory a third party beneficiary of the arbitration
agreement”; and (2) “the nonsignatory was bound to arbitrate the dispute because
a preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the
parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the
nonsignatory to also be bound to arbitrate his or her claim.”  (County
of Contra Costa v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 237, 242.)  While
appellate courts have stated that arbitration agreements are enforced with
regularity against nonsignatories, such cases commonly involve a preexisting
relationship between the nonsignatory and one of the parties to the arbitration
agreement.  (Id.)  “There are circumstances in which nonsignatories to an
agreement containing an arbitration clause can be compelled to arbitrate under
that agreement. … [T]here are six theories by which a nonsignatory may be bound
to arbitrate: ‘(a) incorporation by reference; (b) assumption; (c) agency; (d)
veil-piercing or alter ego; (e) estoppel; and (f) third-party beneficiary’ ….”  (Suh v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1513.)  Here,
Account
Holder Bree Bartlett secured the ride on behalf of Plaintiff using his account
and Plaintiff received the benefit of Uber’s services by riding an Uber
rideshare vehicle.  There is a
preexisting relationship between Account Holder and Plaintiff, as Account
Holder is Plaintiff’s son.  Although
Account Holder was the user under the Uber app, Plaintiff’s claims arise
directly from his use of serviced provided through the Uber app that was
requested by Account Holder.  As such, he
was the intended third-party beneficiary as he was the one that received the
benefit of the ride service for this particular transaction.  This type of relationship was also
contemplated under the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Uber also argues
that Plaintiff is estopped from refusing to arbitrate his claims.  It relies on JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior
Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, which provides: 
[A]
nonsignatory defendant may compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel. For the doctrine to apply, “the claims
plaintiff asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded
in and inextricably intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of
the agreement containing the arbitration clause.” 
(JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1238.)  Uber argues
that Plaintiff’s claims are inherently dependent on his use of and benefit from
the Uber rider app the Terms of Use to which Account Holder expressly
agreed.  Without use of the app, which
required the consent of account holders to the Terms of Use (and the
arbitration provision), Account Holder and thereby Plaintiff would not have
been able to obtain the benefit of a ride with Uber’s drivers. Further, as
discussed above, where a preexisting relationship exists, it may be equitable
to compel the nonsignatory to be bound to arbitrate his claims. 
Accordingly, the
Court finds there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate the claims asserted
in the complaint and the scope of the arbitration provisions are sufficiently
broad to cover the claims in this action between Plaintiff and Uber.  
B.    
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable because the delegation clause
forces Plaintiff to give up a substantive right to a jury trial based on the
third-party beneficiary theory when Plaintiff did not consent to arbitration.  Plaintiff argues that the agreement dictates
the procedure under which Plaintiff may pursue a claim against Uber, dictates
what arbitration association must be used, dictates that Uber drivers are not
agents or employees, attempts to extent arbitration to issues that Uber
disclaims as any part to the services they provide, and include lopsided
provisions that would be retroactive to claims already in progress regardless
of Plaintiff’s retention of counsel. 
(Opp. at p.11.)   
While courts often
decide issues of “arbitrability,” the “'parties can agree to arbitrate
“gateway” questions of “arbitrability,” such as whether the parties have agreed
to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.”' (Aanderud
v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891, quoting Rent–A–Center,
West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69.)  In the event a party is making a specific
challenge to the delegation clause, the court must determine whether the
delegation clause itself may be enforced and can only delegate the general
issue of enforceability to the arbitrator if it first determines the delegation
clause is enforceable. (Rent-A-Center, supra, 561 U.S. at 70.)  The parties may agree, clearly and
unmistakably, that the enforceability issue will be delegated to the
arbitrator.  (AT&T Technologies,
Inc. v. Communications Workers (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 649.)  To establish this exception, it must be shown
by “clear and unmistakable” evidence that the parties intended to delegate the
issue to the arbitrator. (Rent-A-Center, supra, 561 U.S. at 68, 70,
fn.1; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; Peleg v.
Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.App. th 1425, 1439-1445.) 
The terms of the
Arbitration Agreement’s delegation clause are quoted above.  (See January 17, 2023 Terms of Use at § 2(a)(4).)  The terms of the Arbitration Agreement
expressly included the delegation clause such that the issue of arbitrability
and scope of a dispute would be within the determination of the
arbitrator.  The Terms of Use clearly state
that a dispute about whether this Arbitration Agreement can be enforced or
applies to a dispute is for the arbitrator to decide.  The mere fact that the Arbitration Agreement
includes a delegation clause will not be sufficient to make a finding that the
agreement is substantively unconscionable. 

In addition, the
terms of the Arbitration Agreement (i.e., that a jury trial is waived by the
parties, that the parties will use ADR Service, Inc.’s services, etc.) are not
unconscionable.  The waiver of a jury
trial is an ordinary disclaimer in arbitration provisions.  Further, the use of a neutral arbitration
service like ADR Service, Inc. and the use of their rules is not uncommon.  While Plaintiff argues that there are
lopsided provisions, Plaintiff has not specifically identified what provisions
are procedurally or substantively unconscionable in the Arbitration
Agreement.  
Both
procedural and substantive elements must be present in order for a Court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.  (Stirlen v.
Supercuts (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1532.) 
They need not be present in the same
degree.  (Id.)  The Courts invoke a sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves, i.e., the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Armendariz
v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs. (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83, 114.)  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently identified terms that are procedurally and/or substantively
unconscionable in the Arbitration Agreement. 
As such, the Court does not find the Arbitration Agreement to be
unconscionable.
For
these reasons, the motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Uber Technologies,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. shall
proceed to arbitration and the remainder of the claims alleged against Defendants
Avetis Hasratyan and Marco Sandoval shall be stayed pending the outcome of the
arbitration.  
The Court sets a Status Conference re:
Status of Arbitration for January 22, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  
Defendant shall provide
notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  