 Case Number:  23BBCV01986    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
siranush aklyan, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
state of
  california, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01986
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Siranush
Aklyan, Aper G. Agakhanian, Grigor Choginyan, and Lena Ananyan (“Plaintiffs”) allege
that on February 25, 2023 at approximately 1:30 a.m., Siranush Aklyan was
operating her vehicle in the number 1 of 5 lanes on the I-5 northbound
freeway.  Aper G. Agakhanian, Grigor
Choginyan, and Lena Ananyan were passengers int the vehicle. Plaintiffs allege that they became trapped underwater
following a heavy rainfall on the Golden State I-5 freeway.  Plaintiffs
allege that a “vehicle maneuvering the number two (2)
lane initiated the passage adjacent to their vehicle, precipitating the
generation of a wave, thereby inducing a hydrodynamic disturbance. This
perturbation induced an unintended rotational motion of the Plaintiffs' vehicle
in a counter-directional manner, leading to its eventual submersion. In a bid
to evacuate the vehicle, the Plaintiffs made several unsuccessful attempts to
unlatch the doors due to the exerted hydrostatic pressure, rendering them
inoperable. Subsequently, the Plaintiffs successfully extricated themselves
from the vehicle by manipulating one of the windows and effecting their exit
through said window.”  (Compl., ¶7.)  Plaintiffs allege that the roadway was
dangerous for drivers as the surface had insufficient traction and friction,
had improper grooving and treatment of the pavement, used improper materials in
the design/construction/maintenance/repair of the roadway, etc.  
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants State of California and Caltrans District 7 owned,
occupied, leased, used, regulated, controlled, managed, maintained, operated,
supervised, repaired, and possessed the portion of the freeway at issue.  
The complaint, filed August 25, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) statutory liability/dangerous condition of
public property; and (2) negligence.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 14, 2024, Defendant the People of
the State of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Defendant”) (erroneously named as State of California and Caltrans District
7) filed a motion to strike portions of the complaint.  
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.
On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
moves to strike portions of the complaint at paragraph 24 (page 9, line
5).  The specific language includes
references to Government Code, §§ 815.2(a), 820(a), and 840.2.  They argue that they do not dispute that
Plaintiffs properly plead a cause of action for dangerous condition of public
property, but that the allegations for vicarious liability and negligence by
referencing the aforementioned sections is improper.  (Reply at p.5.)  
            First, Defendant argues that
sections 815.2(a) and 820(a) regarding vicarious liability are improper.  Government Code, § 815.2(a) states: “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a
cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.”  Government Code,
§ 820(a) states: “Except as otherwise provided by statute (including
Section 820.2), a public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or
omission to the same extent as a private person.”  Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs have not specifically identified any employee of Defendant for
which Defendant could be vicariously liable and that, even if Plaintiffs were
able to identify employees, its employees are immune such that Defendant cannot
be vicariously liable.  Defendant cites
to Yee v. Superior Court (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 26, 40: 
A public entity cannot be held vicariously liable for
actions of its employees that are actually acts of the entity itself, albeit
performed by necessity by employees or agents. Vicarious liability depends on
the employee being independently liable for the act, the entity becoming liable
because the employee's act was taken within the scope of his or her employment.
(Yee, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at 40.)  Defendant argues that a claim for dangerous
condition of public property can only lie pursuant to Government Code, §§ 830
to 835.4.  
            Second, Defendant argues that section 840.2 for direct employee liability does
not govern dangerous conditions of public property actions.  Government Code, § 840.2 states:
An employee of a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of public property if the plaintiff establishes that the property of
the public entity was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that
the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
which was incurred, and that either:
(a) The dangerous condition was directly attributable wholly or in
substantial part to a negligent or wrongful act of the employee and the
employee had the authority and the funds and other means immediately available
to take alternative action which would not have created the dangerous
condition; or
(b) The employee had the authority and it was his responsibility to take
adequate measures to protect against the dangerous condition at the expense of
the public entity and the funds and other means for doing so were immediately
available to him, and he had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition under Section 840.4 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have
taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.
(Gov’t Code, § 840.2.) 
Again, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have not identified any specific
individual against whom a section 840.2 claim could be brought.  
             Plaintiffs argue
that they are not required to plead the name of the specific individuals prior
to undergoing discovery.  Plaintiffs rely
on C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872, wherein the California Supreme
Court stated: 
The complaint, it is
true, does not identify by name or position the District's “employees,
administrators and/or agents” who allegedly failed to “properly hire, train and
supervise Hubbell.” But the District cites no statute or decision requiring a
plaintiff to specify at the pleading stage which of the defendant's
employees committed the negligent acts or omissions for which a public entity
is allegedly liable under section 815.2. To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need not be
alleged. [Citation.]
(C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at 872; see Perez v. City of Huntington Park (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
817, 820–821 [“The plaintiff
may be unable to identify which employee committed the wrongful act, but this
is not fatal to the employer's liability, if the evidence establishes that some
employee in the scope of employment committed the wrongful act.”].)  
            Although
the complaint does not name specific individuals who were employed by
Defendant, the complaint alleges that Defendant and Does 1-100 knew of the
dangerous and defective conditions of the roadway, knew that the plan or design
of the roadway had become dangerous due to the change in the conditions of the
roadway, failed to warn drivers or take other actions, etc.  (Compl., ¶¶14-19.)  Plaintiffs allege that the dangerous
conditions and acts/omissions of Defendant and Does 1-100 and their management,
administrators, designers, planners, engineers, maintenance personnel, inspectors,
and/or other employees, staff, agents, or contractors were done within the
course and scope of their duties.  (Id.,
¶21.)  At this time, the Court will not
preemptively strike references to section 815.2(a) and 820 for vicarious
liability as there may be a basis for independent liability against Defendant’s
employee(s) and their actions that were undertaken during the scope of their
employment.  The Court finds that the
allegations are sufficiently particular for the cause of action to go
forward.  Similarly, section 840.2 is for
direct liability against an employee of a public entity for a dangerous
condition of public property.  Whether
Plaintiff is able to discover the names of such employees later, amend the Doe
designations, and prove this will have to be determined beyond the pleading
stage.  As currently alleged, Plaintiffs
have alleged sufficient facts against Defendant and specifically alleged the
code sections that are at issue in this action; the identity of the particular
individuals employed by Defendant is better left to be determined during the
discovery process.  
            Finally,
Defendant argues that public employees are immune from discretionary acts under
Government Code, § 820.2, such that it cannot be vicariously liable for the
actions or inactions of its employees. 
Section 820.2 states: “Except as otherwise
provided by statute, a public employee is not liable for an injury resulting
from his act or omission where the act or omission was the result of the
exercise of the discretion vested in him, whether or not such discretion be
abused.”  While such an exception may
exist, at this time, the Court will not prematurely determine if the exception
applies to the facts of this case based on the pleadings alone.  Again, this is better addressed upon the
consideration of evidence at the motion for summary judgment or trial
stage.  
            The
motion to strike is overruled. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant the
People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation’s motion to strike is overruled. 
Defendant is ordered to answer. 
Defendant shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 