 Case Number:  23BBCV02564    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
nerses
  gevorgyan, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
samuel carter rietta, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV02564
 
Trial
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Motion to compel further responses   
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Nerses Gevorgyan and Elena
Avetisian (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on June 21, 2022, they were involved in a
motor vehicle accident with Defendant Samuel Carter Rietta (“Defendant”).  They allege that Nerses Gevorgyan was
operating a 2015 BMW 740i on eastbound 101 Freeway at the Tujunga Ave. exit
off-ramp in North Hollywood and Elena Avetisian was a passenger in the
vehicle.  Plaintiffs allege that at
around that time and location, Defendant operated a 2021 Nissan Sentra.  Plaintiffs allege that while they were
stopped, Defendant negligently failed to stop and rear-ended Plaintiffs’
vehicle, causing a collision.  
The complaint, filed November 1, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) motor vehicle.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Request
for Admission, set one (“RFA”), Nos. 1 and 2. 

On June 26, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant’s further responses to RFA Nos.
1-2.    
            RFA
No. 1 asks Defendant to admit that his negligence caused the subject
accident.  RFA No. 2 asks
Defendant to admit that he was 100% liable for the occurrence of the subject
incident.  Defendant objected to the RFAs
on the grounds that they called for information protected by the
attorney-client privilege, attorney work product doctrine, and Insurance Code,
§ 791.13; and were premature pursuant to CCP § 2034.010 et seq.[1]  Without waiving objections, Defendant
responded that based on the current state of discovery, he is unable to admit
and/or deny the RFA.  
            CCP § 2033.220 states: 
(a) Each answer in
a response to requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward
as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) Each answer
shall:
(1) Admit so much
of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the
request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.
(2) Deny so much
of the matter involved in the request as is untrue.
(3) Specify so
much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the
responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.
(c) If a
responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a
failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state
in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular
request has been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is
insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.
(CCP § 2033.220.) 

            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s discovery responses to the form interrogatories show
that there were no other witnesses to the incident and no one else contributed
to the accident.  Thus, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant should be able to respond to the RFAs.  In
opposition, Defendant argues that he has attempted to obtain the information he
needs to fully respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery, via deposing the only other
witnesses to this incident, but Plaintiffs have prevented Defendant from doing
so.  Defendant argues that if he admits
the RFAs now, then he has admitted to negligence, and if he denies the RFAs
now, then Plaintiffs can later seek costs for his failure to admit the RFA if
his denial proves to be false.  
Defendant’s
response fails to comply with section 2033.220’s requirement regarding the form
and content of a response to RFA requests. 
Defendant provides objections, but also responds: “Based on the current status of discovery in this matter, Mr. Rietta is
unable to admit and/or deny this Request at this time. Discovery and
investigation ongoing and continuing.” 
To the extent that Defendant is relying on subsection (c) section
2033.220, Defendant has not stated that a reasonable inquiry concerning the
matter in the RFAs has been made and that the information known or readily
obtainable is insufficient to enable Defendant to admit the matter.  A response compliant with section 2033.220
should be provided.  The parties should
continue meeting and conferring and cooperating in the discovery process to
ensure that necessary depositions and written discovery are timely completed. 
The motion
to compel further responses is granted.  
Plaintiffs
seek $5,060 in sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of record.  The Court grants the request, but will reduce
the amount to a reasonable sum of $500 in attorney’s fees and $60 in filing
fees in light of the ruling on this motion. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs Nerses Gevorgyan and Elena
Avetisian’s motion to compel Defendant Samuel Carter Rietta’s further responses
to the RFA Nos. 1 and 2 is granted.  Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this order.

Defendant and his counsel
of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $560 to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice
of this order.
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


