 Case Number:  23BBCV01735    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
sargon
  restoration, inc., et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
morrison
  studios, ltd. lp, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01735
 
  Hearing Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion for attorney’s fees pursuant to
  CCP § 8488 in the amount of $4,550.00
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Sargon Restoration, Inc. (“Restoration”),
Environmental Abatement, Inc. (“Abatement”), and L.Y. Environmental, Inc.
(“L.Y.”) allege that they each entered into an agreement with Defendant
Morrison Studios, Ltd. L.P. (“Defendant”) by which Plaintiffs each agreed to
furnish certain labor, services, equipment, and materials for a work of
improvement at the property located at 5001 Lankershim Boulevard, North Hollywood,
CA 91601.  Plaintiffs allege that they
performed all conditions and obligations required, but Defendants breached their
contractual obligations by failing and refusing to compensate each of the
Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege that the
“reasonable value and market price of said labor, services, equipment, and
materials when provided and at all relevant times herein mentioned and now is
as follows: (1) the sum of $378,950.05 to Restoration for fire and water restoration
…; (2) the sum of $16,000.00 to Abatement for construction and fire/water
restoration …; and (3) the sum of $6,375.00 to L.Y. for environmental testing….”  (FAC, ¶13, Exs. B-D.)  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
July 2, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of written contract (Restoration);
(2) breach of oral contract (Abatement); (3) breach of oral contract (L.Y.);
(4) Quantum Meruit (Restoration); (5) Quantum Meruit (Abatement); and (6)
Quantum Meruit (L.Y.).   
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar
On April 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
petition for removal of the mechanic’s lien on the property located at 5001
Lankershim Blvd., North Hollywood, CA 91601. 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief.  On May 16, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief.  On May 31, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant’s petition to release the property from the mechanic’s
lien.  On May 31, 2024, the Court signed
the Order on the Petition to Remove Mechanics Lien from Property Pursuant to
Civil Code, § 8480.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
            Civil
Code, § 8488 states:
(a) At the hearing both (1) the petition [for
an order to release the property from the claim of lien] and (2) the issue of
compliance with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article
are deemed controverted by the claimant. The petitioner
has the initial burden of producing evidence on those matters. The
petitioner has the burden of proof as to the issue of compliance with the
service and date for hearing requirements of this article. The claimant has the burden of proof as to
the validity of the lien. 
(b) If judgment is in favor of the
petitioner, the court shall order the property released from the claim of lien.
(c) The prevailing party is entitled to
reasonable attorney's fees.
(Civ.
Code, § 8488 [emphasis added].)  
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
moves for attorney’s fees in the amount of $4,550.00 pursuant to Civil Code, §
8488(c).[1]  
            In opposition, Plaintiffs
acknowledge that Defendant succeeded on the merits of its petition but argue
that the attorney’s fees claimed are excessive. 
(Opp. at p.2.)  Plaintiff does not
take issue with defense counsel’s hourly rate of $350, but argues that the 13
hours she spent on a simple petition in light of her accomplished experience is
unreasonable when Defendant’s motion to remove the lien and the motion for
attorney’s fees appear to be forms that were reproduced with dates and
information to fill in.  (Id.)  
            As stated above, the parties do not
dispute that Defendant prevailed on the petition for removal of the mechanic’s
lien.  As such, Defendant is entitled to
recover reasonable attorney’s fees from Plaintiffs.  The only issue is whether the $4,550.00
requested by Defendant is reasonable in amount. 
            Defense counsel, Araksya Boyadzhyan,
provides her declaration in support of the motion for attorney’s fees.  Ms. Boyadzhyan states that her hourly rate is
currently $350/hour.  (Boyadzhyan Decl.,
¶5.) She details her legal experience; she was admitted into practice in
Claifornia in December 2014 and “spearheaded” Mgdesyan Law Firm’s civil
litigation department.  (Id.,
¶¶6-7.)  She states that she spent 13
hours on this action, which included: 0.5 hour expended drafting correspondence and meeting and
conferring with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the removal of the mechanic’s
lien; .4 hours researching in preparing the Petition; 3 hours expending in
drafting the Petition to Remove the Mechanic’s Lien, the Request for Judicial
Notice, and my declaration in support of the Petition; 2 hours expended on
researching and drafting the Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Petition; 1
hour to attend the hearing on the Petition; 0.5 hour expended drafting the
Proposed Order on Removal of the Mechanic’s Lien; and 2 hours expended in
researching and drafting the instant motion for attorney’s fees.  (Id., ¶8.)  Ms. Boyadzhyan anticipates spending additional
time if the motion for attorney’s fees is opposed.  (Id., ¶9.)  
            Plaintiffs argue that Ms. Boyadzhyan’s 4
hours spent in researching to prepare the petition and 3 hours to draft the
petition are unreasonable in light of Plaintiffs’ belief that the petition was
“clearly a form documents with dates and names filled in.”  (Opp. at p.2.)  They also argue that spending 2 hours on this
motion for attorney’s fees is also unreasonable when it is a “form motion with
stock declarations with blanks filled in.” 
(Id.)  
            The Court finds that the time spent by
Ms. Boyadzhyan to research and prepare the Petition is not unreasonable.  The Court will not make a determination
regarding whether the Petition or this attorney’s fees motion were “forms” as
claimed by Plaintiffs.  Regardless of
whether they were form documents, Ms. Boyadzhyan would still have had to have
expended time to research the law and the facts of the particular case before
her, prepare the Petition and attorney’s fees motion, and draft the requisite
accompanying papers (declarations, requests for judicial notice, etc.).  The expenditure of 13 hours for two law and
motion matters is not unreasonably high. 
Ms. Boyadzhyan has adequately explained the time she has spent and the
Court sees no grounds to reduce the fees. 
The requested sum is reasonable for the work done on the Petition and
the attorney’s fees motion and is not excessive in amount. 
            The motion for attorney’s fees is granted
in the amount of $4,550.00. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Morrison Studios, Ltd. L.P.’s motion
for attorney’s fees is granted in the amount of $4,550.00.  Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


