 Case Number:  23BBCV00663    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
michael green, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
royal garden
  apartments inc., 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00663
 
Hearing
  Date:  July 26, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel attendance; and motion seeking a protective order
  
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs
Michael Green, Mia Cordes, Delia Reed, Zarinah Reed, and Jimmie Henry
(“Plaintiffs”) allege that they reside at 6705 Riverton Avenue, North
Hollywood, CA 91606 in various units. 
Michael Green and Mia Cordes reside in Apartment 13, Jimmie Henry
resides in Apartment C1, and Delia Reed and Zarinah Reed reside in Apartment
21.  Defendant Royal Garden Apartments
Inc. (“Defendant”) is alleged to be the owner, agent, and manager of the 6705
Riverton Avenue property.  Plaintiffs
allege that the premises have an infestation of roaches and rodents, lack
adequate gas facilities, and lack smoke detectors.  They allege that the premises are
uninhabitable.  
The complaint, filed March 23, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of warranty of habitability; (2)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) nuisance; (4) negligence (Civ. Code,
§§ 1714(a), 3333); (5) premises liability (negligence per se); (6) unfair
business practice and unfair competition; and (7) IIED.  
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs named J.K.
Residential Services, Inc. as Doe 1.  
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On June 12, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
to compel the attendance, uninterrupted and without coaching testimony and the
production of documents, of Plaintiff Michael Green.  On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
brief.  On July 2, 2024, Defendant filed
a reply brief.
On June 12, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
for protective order preventing Plaintiffs’ counsel from coaching the deponent
and speaking on the cell phone during the deposition or, alternatively,
appointing a discovery referee at the expense of Plaintiff.  On June 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  On June 27, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
            Defendant moves to compel the
deposition of Mr. Green, uninterrupted and without coaching testimony, and for
the production of documents.  
Defendant argues that it has attempted to
take Mr. Green’s deposition on multiple occasions, only to be notified about last-minute
changes to time, location, and participation of Mr. Green and Plaintiffs’
counsel.  Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs did not object to Defendant’s deposition notices and that Plaintiffs
have not produced documents.  The parties
met and conferred regarding the deposition of Mr. Green set for May 14,
2024.  On May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel confirmed the deposition and stated that the time should be at 12:00
p.m. as Mr. Green no longer lived in California but would be in town that day.  (Mot., Ex. C.)  On May 13, 2024, Defendant accommodated the
request by contacting the court reporter and moving the start time.  (Mot., Ex. C.)  That same day, Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed
stating that Mr. Green would not be available in person, but could appear
remotely as he lived in Las Vegas, Nevada. 
(Mot., Exs. E-G.)  Defense counsel
responded that the last-minute changes were unacceptable and that the
deposition would be going forward at the noticed time and location.  (Mot., Ex. G.)  On May 14, 2024 at 10:00 a.m., the deposition
went forward, but Plaintiffs’ counsel and Mr. Green did not appear, such that a
notice of nonappearance was taken. 
(Mot., Ex. I.)   
Plaintiffs argue that they informed
defense counsel that Mr. Green lived in Nevada and would be available to appear
for his deposition remotely or in Las Vegas. 
They argue that despite attempts to set another deposition date or set a
remote deposition, Defendant has refused to meet and confer regarding Mr.
Green’s deposition.  
Prior to the deposition going forward on
May 14, 2024, there appears to have been miscommunication between the parties
regarding Mr. Green’s whereabouts or his residence.  On May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel sought to
push back the deposition time, stating that Mr. Green would be in town and
available to attend his deposition.  On
May 13, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel informed defense counsel that Mr. Green did
not live in California and would now be made available for a remote deposition.
 It is not clear when Plaintiffs’ counsel
became aware of Mr. Green’s residency and whether this information could have
been disclosed earlier.  However, based
on the papers provided by the parties, it appears that Plaintiffs’ counsel
disclosed Mr. Green’s Nevada address on May 13, 2024—one day before the noticed
deposition.  
            The parties do not dispute that Defendant
may take the deposition of Mr. Green.  Rather,
Plaintiffs’ counsel has offered to make Mr. Green available remotely or in
person in Las Vegas, although notice of Mr. Green’s new residency was not
provided until only a day prior to the noticed deposition date.  Further, Defendant knew that Mr. Green and
Plaintiffs’ counsel were not able to make the deposition on May 14, 2024 at
10:00 a.m., but proceeded to conduct the deposition for that time.  (In the opposition brief, Plaintiffs argue
that although they gave notice of Mr. Green’s non-residency, defense counsel
failed to grant the accommodation for a slight change of time to allow Mr.
Green to travel to California. [Opp. at p.5.]. 
However, this argument appears to contradict the emails wherein
Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that Mr. Green would be available remotely for his
deposition or that Defendant could conduct the deposition in Las Vegas.)   
            At this time, the Court will grant
the motion to compel Mr. Green’s deposition as neither party disputes that Mr.
Green’s deposition should go forward. 
However, the parties should meet and confer regarding how the deposition
will be conducted—in person or remotely. 
Defendant should re-notice Mr. Green’s deposition, taking into
consideration his non-residency in California. 
(CCP § 2025.250(a) [“Unless the court
orders otherwise under Section 2025.260, the deposition of a natural person,
whether or not a party to the action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the
option of the party giving notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of
the deponent's residence, or within the county where the action is pending and
within 150 miles of the deponent's residence.”].)  Further, as no documents were produced and
the request for documents was not objected to nor addressed in the opposition
brief, Mr. Green is ordered to produce the documents requested prior to the
deposition. 
Defendant seeks $2,589.46 in sanctions
against Mr. Green and his counsel, which accounts for $1,572.50 in attorney’s
fees and $1,016.85 for the cost of the non-appearance.  (Flesch Decl., ¶¶19-23.)  Plaintiffs seek $3,200 in sanctions against
Defendant for the time spent by counsel to oppose the motion.  (Ekpenisi Decl., ¶21.)  At this time, the Court declines to award
sanctions on this motion.  The parties
should have engaged in further meet and confer efforts once they realized that
the May 14, 2024 deposition would not be going forward as discussed in their
emails and based on Mr. Green’s updated residency.  While the process of scheduling the deposition
may have been frustrating for both counsel, both counsel are tasked with acting
with civility towards one another in scheduling a deposition.  (See LASC Local Rule, Appendix 3.A.
Guidelines for Civility in Litigation at (e)(2) [“In scheduling depositions,
reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating schedules or opposing
counsel and of the deponent, where it is possible to do so without prejudicing
the client’s rights.”].)  If further
issues arise regarding the inability to conduct Mr. Green’s deposition or Mr.
Green’s deposition was unnecessarily delayed, the Court will consider imposing
sanctions at that time.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
            Defendant moves for a protective
order so that it can depose Plaintiffs, uninterrupted and without coaching by Mr.
Ekpenisi.  
CCP § 2025.420
states in relevant part: 
(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or
any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a
protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other
natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order
may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
…
(5) That the deposition be taken only on certain
specified terms and conditions.
(CCP § 2025.420.)  
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ counsel
Macauley Ekpenisi has a history of disruptive conduct during depositions and
last-minute requests prior to depositions going forward.  With respect to Plaintiff Mia Cordes’
deposition scheduled for May 22, 2024 at 10:00 a.m., Mr. Ekpenisi requested on
May 20, 2024 that the deposition start at 11:30 a.m. and be conducted
remotely.  On May 21, 2024, Mr. Ekpenisi
asked that Ms. Cordes’ deposition be conducted at 2:00 p.m., as he had 3
different unlawful detainer actions in Pasadena courthouse on May 22,
2024.   Defendant denied these requests and
Plaintiffs’ counsel confirmed that the deposition would go forward.  Defendant states that Ms. Cordes’ deposition
began on May 22, 2024 at around 10:00 a.m., but during the deposition, Mr.
Ekpenisi got on his cell phone, began talking about an unrelated matter with a
federal court judge, and left the deposition. 
(Mot., Ex. J.)  Upon his return,
Defendant argues that Mr. Ekpenisi began coaching Ms. Cordes before she had an
opportunity to answer a question (or began answering deposition questions
himself), and when instructed not to coach Ms. Cordes, Mr. Ekpenisi began
pointing to documents to inform Ms. Cordes how to respond.  (Mot., Ex. K, Ex. L.)  Defendant argues that similar conduct
occurred in Plaintiffs Zarinah and Delia Reed’s depositions as Plaintiffs’
counsel showed up 45 minutes late to the depositions, made phone calls during
the depositions, and coached the witnesses. 
(Mot., Ex. M [Zarinah Reed Depo. re start time of deposition]; Exs. N
and O [Mr. Ekpenisi answering questions on Zarinah Reed’s behalf]; Ex. P [Mr.
Ekpenisi answering questions on Delia Reed’s behalf during her deposition].)  Defendant also refers to the motion to compel
Mr. Green’s deposition to argue that Mr. Ekpenisi has a history of making last-minute
requests for depositions.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they requested accommodations for their
counsel’s scheduling conflicts, but Defendant refused to make such
accommodations before the depositions or during the depositions (when Mr.
Ekpenisi asked for a short break).  However,
Plaintiffs have not shown why they did not object to deposition notices based
on scheduling conflicts or seek accommodations earlier.  Based on the ordinary business of the courts,
advance notice of hearings is given to litigants and their counsel regarding
hearing dates and times.  Further, the
deposition transcript shows that Mr. Ekpenisi disrupted his own client’s answer
by seeking a short break for himself to handle a federal matter.  (See Mot., Ex. J at pp.12-13.)  
Plaintiffs argue
that the motion is not accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, such that
this motion is improper.  However, based
on counsels’ interactions over email and at the deposition, it appears that further
meet and confer efforts on this particular topic would have been ineffective.  For example, during Ms. Cordes’ deposition,
when defense counsel asked Mr. Ekpenisi whether he understood that when defense
counsel was asking Ms. Cordes a question, he was expecting an answer from her,
Mr. Ekpenisi stated: “No, it’s not.” 
(Mot., Ex. K at p.20.)  Based on
the deposition record, Mr. Ekpenisi responded to questions on behalf of his
clients/the deponents despite being asked repeatedly not to answer or coach the
witness.  
            There
appears to be a course of conduct regarding Mr. Ekpenisi making last-minute
requests for accommodations of depositions (to move the times or to make them
remote), appearing to the depositions late, interrupting defense counsel or the
witness, and answer on behalf of his clients or coaching them on how to respond
to deposition questions.  For these
reasons, the motion for a protective order is granted such that the Court will
order Mr. Ekpenisi to attend depositions in a timely matter and allow the
depositions of his clients to go forward without phone call interruptions
(i.e., other court hearings and unrelated matters) and without coaching by Mr.
Ekpenisi.  Mr. Ekpenisi may still make
objections on the record during a deposition, but may not instruct his clients
on how to answer or answer
deposition questions on their behalf except on grounds of privilege. 
            In the notice of motion, Defendant
seeks $3,211 against Plaintiffs’ counsel, while the conclusion in the
memorandum of points and authorities seeks $3,630 against Plaintiffs.   Defense counsel Daniel G. Flesch’s declaration
seeks $3,211 in sanctions (= 10.5 hours x $185/hour, plus $1,268.60 in costs
for the deposition of Ms. Cordes). (Flesch Decl., ¶¶27-31.)  In opposition, Plaintiffs seek $3,600 in
sanctions.  The Court will award
sanctions to Defendant in the reasonable sum of $2,500 for counsel’s time spent
on this matter, plus $1,268.60 for Ms. Cordes’ suspended deposition.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Royal
Garden Apartments, Inc.’s motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Michael
Green is granted.  The parties are
ordered to meet and confer regarding a mutually agreeable date and time to
conduct the deposition and whether the deposition will be proceeding remotely
or in person.  Following meet and confer
efforts, Defendant is ordered to re-notice Plaintiff Michael Green’s deposition
on the mutually agreeable date and time or, if the parties were unable to agree
upon a date, within 60 days of this order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to produce documents responsive to the request for
documents prior to the deposition date. 
No sanctions will be awarded on this motion.  
Defendant Royal
Garden Apartments, Inc.’s motion for a protective order is granted such that
the Court will order Macauley Ekpenisi to attend depositions in a timely matter
and allow the depositions of his clients to go forward without phone call
interruptions (i.e., other court hearings and unrelated matters) and without
coaching by Mr. Ekpenisi.  Mr. Ekpenisi
may still make objections on the record during a deposition, but may not
instruct his clients on how to answer or answer deposition questions on their
behalf except on grounds of privilege.  
Plaintiffs’ counsel is ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,768.60 to Defendant, by and through counsel,
within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
 
DATED: July 26, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          John Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 