 Case Number:  23STCV29197    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
9, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Noemi Alegria, et al. v. Cesar Rodriguez, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV29197
 





















 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT AND DEFAULT 



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant Cesar Rodriguez
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Noemi Alegria, et al. 
 
 
            This is a landlord-tenant dispute.  On November 30, 2023, Plaintiffs Noemi
Alegria and minors Joseph Rivera, Abraham Rivera, Amri Rivera and Johnny
Picazo, by and through their guardian ad litem, Noemi Alegria (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Cesar Rodriguez (Rodriguez)
and Santiago Reyes (Reyes) for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
(2) Breach of Statutory Warranty of Habitability, (3) Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment, (4) Negligence, (5) Violation of Civil Code §1942.4, (6) Private
Nuisance, (7) Violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, and (8) Violation
of Unfair Competition Law (Bus. & Prof. C. §§ 17200-09).  Plaintiffs were tenants in a property owned
and managed by Defendants Rodriguez and Reyes. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Proof of Service of
Summons showing that Rodriguez was personally served with the Summons and Complaint
on December 20, 2023.
 
On January 30, 2024, the clerk entered default against Rodriguez.  
 
On June 14, 2024, Rodriguez filed this Motion to Set Aside
the Judgment and Any Default [CCP §§ 473(b), 473.5, 473(d), 128(a)(8),
86(b)3)].  Rodriguez is self-represented.

 
            Plaintiffs filed
an opposition.  
 
Rodriguez did not file a reply.  However, on October 4, 2024, Rodriguez filed
an amended motion which includes a copy of his proposed answer. 
 
            As a
threshold issue, default and not a default judgment, has been entered against
Rodriguez. Accordingly, the court determines only whether grounds exist to set
aside the default.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides that a court may “relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”¿ In addition, a court must
vacate a default or dismissal when a motion for relief under Section 473,
subdivision (b) is filed timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect “unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿¿ 
 
The party or the legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more
than six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for relief under section 473 must be brought
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”].)¿¿¿ 
 
            Additionally,
courts may set aside a default or default judgment due to lack of actual
notice. Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 states:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time
to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default
judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a
written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.¿ 
¿ 
(b)
A notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date
prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by
an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time
to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of
the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action.¿ 
¿ 
(c)
Upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within the period
permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time
to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on
whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action.¿¿
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Rodriguez
seeks an order vacating the default on the following ground: “I did not receive
the Summons and Complaint in this case at all or did not receive them in the
legally required way. The documents were not handed to me in the legally
required way. The complaint was left out in my garden.”  (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 2.)  Rodriguez further states that he is “filing
this Motion to Set Aside within a reasonable time and within the statutory
period, if applicable.”  (Rodriguez,
Decl., ¶ 4.)  
 
At bottom, Rodriguez challenges the court’s jurisdiction
over Rodriguez because service of process was defective.  “The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper. However, the
presumption arises only if the proof of service complies with the applicable
statutory requirements.”  (Floveyor Internat.,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 795.)  Here, Rodriguez states that the complaint was
left in his garden.  In other words,
Rodriguez states he was not personally served. 
Rodriguez appears to rebut the presumption.  
 
However, given that (1) Rodriguez only recently cured the
procedural defect of his motion by filing on October 4, 2024 an amended motion which
includes a copy of his proposed answer and (2) Plaintiffs’ opposition is not
supported by a declaration from their process server, Dorreen Mallyon, the
court will continue the hearing for the motion. 
The parties may submit additional briefing as to whether the presumption
of proper service has/has not been rebutted.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is continued to October 31, 2024.  Plaintiffs may file a supplemental opposition
by October 18, 2024.  Defendant Rodriguez
may file a supplemental reply by October 25, 2024.
 
The clerk of the court to give notice.
 
Dated:   October 9, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 