 Case Number:  23STCV27484    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 9, 2024                                                            TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                                Jennifer Field, Trustee of the
Jennifer Field Irrevocable Trust v. Michael Field, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV27484
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT (CCP § 664.6) 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jennifer Field, Trustee of Jennifer Field Irrevocable Trust
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff Jennifer Field, as Trustee of
the Jennifer Field Irrevocable Trust, initiated this action against Defendant
Michael Field for the breach of a final trust agreement concerning the use,
ownership, and management of the real property at 860 Yale Street, Santa Monica,
CA 90403 (the Property).  Plaintiff also seeks
partition of the Property.
 
On February 8, 2024, the parties executed a Settlement Agreement.  Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Defendant
was required to: 
 
1.     
Execute a grant deed transferring
his entire interest in the Property to: (a) Defendant as a fifty percent (50%)
tenant in common; and (b) Plaintiff as a fifty percent (50%) tenant in common; 
2.     
Pay seventy-five percent (75%) of
the mortgage payments on the mortgage secured by the Property, bearing loan
#0381278407 (the “Current Mortgage”) when Plaintiff is not occupying the
Property for thirty (30) or more days; 
3.     
Pay one hundred percent (100%) of
all other property expenses, including insurance, utilities, property taxes,
and home equity loans (the “Other Property Expenses”) when Plaintiff is not
occupying the Property for thirty (30) or more days. Plaintiff is not
responsible for any loan Defendant causes to be secured against the Property,
other than the Current Mortgage, whether or not Plaintiff occupies the
Property; 
4.     
Cooperate immediately and in good
faith with any sale of the Property by Plaintiff. Plaintiff has the right to
force the sale of the Property for any reason and choose, in her sole
discretion, the listing realtor, listing price, and the final sale price; and 
5.     
Maintain and repair the Property. If
Defendant fails to maintain the Property, Plaintiff can make the necessary
repairs and is entitled to reimbursement from Defendant.
 
            The
Settlement Agreement further provided that, if the Property is sold, Defendant is
to reimburse Plaintiff from his portion of the sale proceeds for: (a) all of
Plaintiff’s attorney fees relating to or arising out of the Property that were
incurred from July 1, 2022, through the completion of the sale of the Property,
including any post-sale matters that reasonably require legal counsel; and (b)
any payment in excess of Plaintiff’s share of the Current Mortgage or Other
Property Expenses. If Defendant’s portion of the sales proceeds do not cover
the amounts owed (or if the Property is not sold), Defendant is to reimburse
Plaintiff for the remaining amounts separately from the Property’s sale
proceeds.
 
            Moreover,
under the Settlement Agreement, Plaintiff is also entitled to an order for the
sale of the Property and may elect to receive the order from either an
arbitrator or the court if any of the following circumstances occur: 
 
1.     
Defendant fails to pay his share of
the Current Mortgage or Other Property Expenses as required by the Settlement
Agreement within thirty (30) days of the written notice to cure the breach; 
2.     
Defendant fails to timely pay his
share of the (a) Current Mortgage, (b) property tax bill, and (c) home equity
loan as required by the Settlement Agreement, regardless of whether Defendant
receives a notice to cure; or 
3.     
Defendant fails to provide Plaintiff
with Defendant’s credit report or a full accounting of any encumbrances,
mortgages, or debts taken out against the Property within ten (10) business
days of Plaintiff’s written demand. 
 
The Instant Motion
 
             On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion
for Entry of Judgment under CCP § 664.6. 
Plaintiff also seeks attorney’s fees.
 
            On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Defendant’s Non-Opposition to
Motion for Entry of Judgment.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.¿ If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 664.6.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
In hearing a section 664.6 motion, the trial court may
receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment.¿ (Bowers v. Raymond J. Lucia Companies, Inc.
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 724, 732.)¿ The court may interpret the terms and
conditions to settlement (Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561,
566), but the court may not create material terms of a settlement, as opposed
to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously agreed upon (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810).¿ The party
seeking to enforce a settlement “must first establish the agreement at issue
was set forth ‘in a writing signed by the parties’ (§ 664.6) or was made orally
before the court. [Citation.]”¿ (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 304 [holding that a letter confirming the essential
terms of a settlement agreement was not a “writing signed by the parties”
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of Section 664.6].)¿
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant has breached his obligations
under the Settlement Agreement.  Specifically,
as Plaintiff explains, Defendant failed to: 
 
1.     
Cooperate with the sale of the
Property after Plaintiff exercised her right to force the sale pursuant to the
Settlement Agreement; 
2.     
Pay his share of the Current
Mortgage and Other Property Expenses; and 
3.     
Maintain and repair the Property.
 
(Field Decl., ¶¶ 6-10; see Exs. A, C-F.)  Defendant, having not filed opposition, does
not present any evidence or argument to the contrary.  
¿ 
¿ Given the foregoing breaches, Plaintiff now seeks an
order entering judgment against Defendant under the Settlement Agreement as
follows:  
 
1.     
The Property shall be sold. 
2.     
Plaintiff shall choose the listing
realtor, the listing price, and the final sale price for the Property. 
3.     
Defendant shall immediately
cooperate with the sale of the Property and: 
a.      
Execute any and all required
documents to enable the sale of the Property; 
b.     
Allow Plaintiff to clean and perform
necessary maintenance on the Property; 
c.      
Allow Plaintiff access to the
Property for showings, inspections, and any other activities required for the
sale of the Property; and 
d.     
Vacate the Property during showings,
inspections, and any other activities required for selling the Property. 
4.     
Defendant shall pay seventy-five
percent (75%) of the mortgage payments on the mortgage secured by the Property,
bearing loan #0381278407 (the “Current Mortgage”) and one hundred percent
(100%) of all other property expenses (the “Other Property Expenses”), while
Plaintiff is not occupying the Property for thirty (30) or more days. Plaintiff
shall not be responsible for any loan Defendant causes to be secured against
the Property, other than the Current Mortgage, whether or not Plaintiff
occupies the Property.
5.     
Plaintiff shall be reimbursed from
Defendant’s share of the sale proceeds for: (a) any payment in excess of
Plaintiff’s share of the Current Mortgage and Other Property Expenses; and (b)
all attorney fees relating to or arising out of the Property incurred from July
1, 2022, through the completion of the sale of the Property, including any
post-sale matters that reasonably require legal counsel for Plaintiff. Should
Defendant’s portion of the sales proceeds not cover the amounts owed (or if the
Property is not sold), Defendant shall reimburse Plaintiff for the remaining
amounts. 
6.     
The Court shall retain jurisdiction
under California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 664.6 to enforce the
Settlement Agreement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.
 
(See Field Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 3, 5; see also Proposed Order, 8/16/24.)

 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion for Entry of
Judgment is GRANTED.¿ Judgment is entered for Plaintiff and against Defendant as
set forth in Plaintiff’s concurrently filed proposed order.¿  
 
            The court
sets a status conference re: sale of property, distribution of funds, and entry
of judgment for June 4, 2025, at 9 am. 
Plaintiff is to file a status report at least five court days prior to
the June hearing.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   October 9, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 