  Case Number:  23STCV01974    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 9, 2024                                            TRIAL DATE:  August
11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Sig Ep Housing of California Beta, LLC v. Savas Sirkci, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV01974
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Sig Ep Housing of California Beta, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Savas
Sirikci
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This action arises from a breach of a written lease agreement
concerning the property located at 700 West 28th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90007
(the Property).  Plaintiff Sig Ep Housing
of California Beta, LLC (Plaintiff), the landlord, leased the Property to
Defendant Zumaworks LLC (Zumaworks). Defendant Savas Sirikci (Sirikci) signed
the lease on behalf of Zumaworks.  Zumaworks
became inactive in February 2020, then breached the lease agreement in March
2020.  Plaintiff alleges Zumaworks is the
alter ego of Sirikci. 
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel
Sirikci to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents (RFP), Set Two, No. 54. 
Plaintiff seeks to discover Sirikci’s personal financial records.  Sanctions are requested against Sirikci.
 
Sirikci filed an opposition. 
Sanctions are requested against Plaintiff.   
 
Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may
move for a further response to requests for production of documents where an
answer to the request is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without
merit or too general.¿ A motion to compel further response to requests for
production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿
The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Finally, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires
that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or
opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection demands,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h).)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks a further response to RFP, Set Two, No. 54. 
This discovery request seeks production of “all [Sirikci’s] bank statements for
personal accounts since 2017.”  Sirikci objected
to the request based on privacy and lack of relevance.  
 
Plaintiff argues the documents are directly relevant to Sirikci’s
alter ego liability.  “In California, two
conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked. First,
there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation
and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and
the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable
result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.”  (Cam-Carson, LLC v. Carson Reclamation
Auth. (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549 (Cam-Carson) (quotations and
citations omitted).)  ““Factors for the
trial court to consider include the commingling of funds and assets of the two
entities, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same
offices and employees, disregard of corporate formalities, identical directors
and officers, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the
other.”  (Cam-Carson, supra,
at p. 550.)
 
Plaintiff contends, on information and belief, that Sirikci utilized
Zumaworks for wrongful reasons such as shielding Sirikci from personal
liability.  As Plaintiff explains, the
records are needed to determine whether there was any commingling of funds or
other assets, under capitalization for Zumaworks, and/or treatment of Zumaworks’
assets as Sirikci’s own assets.  
 
Plaintiff further argues these records are necessary because
Zumaworks is a defunct entity that no longer has an agent for service of
process.  Indeed, Zumaworks has defaulted
in this action.  Sirikci was its sole
member and manager of Zumaworks.  Given
the foregoing, Plaintiff contends the need for the discovery overcomes Sirikci’s
right to privacy.
 
Sirikci argues Plaintiff fails to establish the direct
relevance of his financial records.  In
support, Sirikci cobbles together Fortunato v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 475 (Fortunato), Britt v. Superior Court
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844 (Britt), and Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Ass'n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 34-35 (Hill) for the proposition
that an individual’s financial records are protected by a constitutional right
to privacy and are discoverable if the requesting party establishes the direct
relevance and there exists a compelling need for the information. 
 
Sirikci is only half right. The right of privacy of individuals
is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.)  Generally, that right extends to an
individual’s financial records.  (See,
e.g., Fortunato, at p. 480 [“[C]onfidential financial information given
to a bank by its customers is protected by the right to privacy[.]”].)  In ruling on discovery motions, the court
must balance the privacy claims of the responding party with the requesting
party’s need for the information. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 718-722.)  
 
In Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th 1, the California
Supreme Court fashioned a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy.  The party asserting the right of privacy must establish (1) a
“legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened
intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552 (Williams).)  
 
Accordingly, Sirikci, as the party asserting the
right to privacy, has the burden to establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonably expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  If Sirikci meets this standard, Plaintiff
must then show that the requested documents are “directly relevant” to the
litigation.¿¿ 
 
            Sirikci
does not meet his burden.  Specifically, he
does not establish the second and third elements of the test.  Indeed, Sirikci does not discuss the second
and third elements at all.  As such, the
burden does not shift to Plaintiff to demonstrate the direct relevance of the
requested documents.  Instead, unless specifically addressed, the general
rules of discovery apply: “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial,
or facilitating settlement .... Admissibility is not the test and information unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.
These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery, and (contrary to
popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.” Garamendi
v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 694, 712, fn 8.) Sirikci’s
challenge to the RFP on privacy grounds fails. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff establishes the direct relevance of the
information sought.  Zumaworks was the
signatory to the lease agreement and thereafter breached the agreement.  There is no dispute that Sirikci was its sole
member and that Zumaworks ceased activity just before the breach.  Zumaworks is in default and no longer has an
agent for service of process.  As such, Plaintiff
cannot conduct any discovery directly from Zumaworks or from third parties with
respect to the alter ego allegations.  As
Sirikci’s financial accounts are directly relevant to establishing (1)
inadequate capitalization of Zumaworks, (2) commingling of funds, and (3)
treatment of Zumaworks’ assets as Sirikci’s own.  A further response is warranted.  The court, however, imposes a time limitation
of three years prior to the breach (March 2017 to March 2020).   
 
A protective order is also warranted.  The parties shall submit, within 10 court
days of this order, an agreed upon protective order covering the limited use of
the financial records.  The disclosure of
the financial records shall be subject to the protective order.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Sirikci.  The court finds Sirikci had substantial
justification in opposing the motion to compel.  Sirikci’s privacy concerns,
on their face, are well-founded.  Accordingly, the court declines to
impose any sanctions. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED in party.  Sirikci is
ordered to produce documents responsive to RFP No. 54 within 45 days of the
agreed upon protective order.  The
relevant time period is March 2017 to March 2020.  
            
The parties shall submit an agreed upon protective order
covering the limited use of the financial records within 10 courts days of this
order.  The disclosure of the financial
records shall be subject to the protective order.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:   October 9, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 