 Case Number:  22STCV17190    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ELISE FAHEY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TERRENCE BUDD, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV17190
  Hearing Date:  May 24, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motions for summary judgment
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 24, 2022, Plaintiff Elise
Fahey filed this action against Defendants Terrence Budd, Matthew Budd, and
Hugo Budd, asserting claims for constructive trust, interference with
inheritance, and fraud. On April 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint, asserting claims for interference with contract, interference with
prospective economic advantage, fraud, and constructive trust. 
            Defendants filed two demurrers
against the FAC, primarily arguing that Plaintiff’s claims to recover her
supposed inheritance are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Probate
Court. Plaintiff conceded that the Probate Court had exclusive jurisdiction and
for that reason requested this Court to take the demurrers off calendar. The
Court agreed with Defendants and sustained the demurrers with leave to amend on
August 9, 2023.
            On August 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint, asserting (1) interference with
contract, (2) interference with prospective economic advantage, and (3)
constructive trust. The SAC alleges that Plaintiff was in a long-term
relationship with Decedent Harold Budd, father of the three Defendants. (SAC ¶
4.) Decedent allegedly agreed to give Plaintiff 25% of his royalties in
exchange for Plaintiff’s care and companionship. (Id., ¶ 5.) Decedent’s
royalty and intellectual property rights were allegedly not subject to
distribution by will. (Id., ¶ 6.) Instead, an assignment allegedly
provided that Plaintiff and Decedent’s three children would share equally in
the proceeds. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that when Decedent’s sons
discovered this arrangement, they caused Decedent to alter the assignment and
remove Plaintiff as an assignee through undue influence. (Id., ¶ 9.) 
            On March 7, 2024, Defendants
Terrence Budd and Matthew Budd filed a motion for summary judgment. On March 8,
2024, Defendant Hugo Budd filed a separate motion for summary judgment.
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to either motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Interference with Contract
            The elements of intentional
interference with contractual relations are: “(1) a valid contract between
plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3)
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v.
Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
            It is undisputed that Defendants had
no knowledge of the alleged contract between Decedent and Plaintiff. (T. Budd
Decl. ¶ 5; M. Budd Decl. ¶ 4; H. Budd Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, Defendants have
satisfied their initial burden of disproving an essential element of the claim.
Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and presents no evidence raising a triable
issue. Accordingly, the first cause of action fails as a matter of law. 
II.
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.
(Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134,
1153.) 
Here again, it is undisputed that
Defendants had no knowledge of any economic relationship between Plaintiff and
Decedent. (T. Budd Decl. ¶ 5; M. Budd Decl. ¶ 4; H. Budd Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore,
Defendants have satisfied their initial burden of disproving an essential
element of the claim. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and presents no
evidence raising a triable issue. Accordingly, the second cause of action fails
as a matter of law. 
III.
Constructive Trust
            “A constructive trust is not a
substantive device but merely a remedy.” (Embarcadero Mun. Improvement Dist.
v. County of Santa Barbara (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 781, 793.) If an
underlying substantive claim is barred as a matter of law, the remedy
necessarily fails. (Ibid.) 
            Because the first two causes of
action fail as a matter of law, the constructive trust remedy necessarily
fails. Plaintiff does not oppose the motions to contest any of the arguments
made therein, nor does Plaintiff present any evidence raising a triable issue.
Thus, summary judgment is warranted. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motions for summary
judgment are GRANTED. 
            
 