 Case Number:  24STCV05379    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
GUILLERMO REYES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MEGA INTERNATIONAL, LLC,
  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV05379
  Hearing Date:  May 24, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff
Guillermo Reyes filed this action for wage and labor violations against
Defendant Mega International, LLC. Plaintiff asserts seven causes of action
individually, and an eighth cause of action which is a representative PAGA claim.
            On April 25, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed his opposition on May
13, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on May 17, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of an Arbitration Agreement
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, quoting Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-44.) 
            On January 15, 2023, Plaintiff
signed a standalone arbitration agreement as part of the onboarding process.
(Speights Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the
agreement or deny his signature. Plaintiff also does not contest that the
claims asserted in his complaint (except the PAGA representative claim) are
subject to arbitration. Therefore, Defendant has proven an arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and all claims except the PAGA
representative claim must be submitted to arbitration.   
II.
Stay
Plaintiff’s opposition is limited to the
issue of staying the action on the representative PAGA claim pending
arbitration. “[T]he trial court may exercise its discretion to stay the
non-individual claims pending the outcome of the arbitration.” (Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.) Such a stay is
warranted because an arbitrator’s findings may have preclusive effect on the
litigation of the representative claims, particularly on the issue of
Plaintiff’s standing as an “aggrieved employee.” (See id. at p. 1124;
see also Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 77-78.)
“Because the issues subject to litigation under the PAGA might overlap those
that are subject to arbitration of [Plaintiff’s] individual claims, the trial
court must order an appropriate stay of trial court proceedings.” (Franco v.
Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 947, 966.) “The stay's
purpose is to preserve the status quo until the arbitration is resolved,
preventing any continuing trial court proceedings from disrupting and
rendering ineffective the arbitrator's jurisdiction to decide the issues that
are subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.) 
Here, a stay is justified to prevent
duplicative litigation and inconsistent findings. Because the individual and
representative claims arise from similar alleged violations, there will be
numerous overlapping issues of law and fact, including Plaintiff’s standing as
an “aggrieved employee.” The findings in arbitration may have a dispositive
effect on Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims. Although the representative
claims cannot be dismissed outright simply because the individual claims are
compelled to arbitration, the representative claims should still be stayed to
preserve judicial economy and prevent inconsistent findings.
Plaintiff argues that the representative
PAGA claims are not subject to arbitration. This is correct, but has no bearing
on whether a stay is warranted. Claims that are not covered by an arbitration
agreement, and must thus remain in court, are still subject to the court’s
discretion to control its own docket, as well as Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The representative PAGA claims are stayed pending
arbitration. 
 