 Case Number:  24STCV14159    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C.
Brazile 

Department 20 

 Hearing Date:                             Wednesday, October 16, 2024 Case Name:                                Yuyuan Gao v. Payward, Inc.  Case No.:                                     24STCV14159 Motion:                                        Motion to Compel Responses to Demand for Production and Inspection of DocumentsMoving Party:                                 Plaintiff Yuyuan Gao Responding Party:                      Defendant Payward, Inc.  Notice:                                         OK 

 

 Ruling:                                    The Motion to Compel Responses to Demand
for Production and Inspection of Documents is DENIED.  Plaintiff to give notice.  If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 

 

 BACKGROUND On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff Yuyuan Gao (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Payward, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1–100, inclusive, alleging
Defendant profited from Plaintiff’s transactions made on Defendant’s
cryptocurrency platform. Plaintiff alleged fifteen causes of action, including
for fraudulent misrepresentation, breach of contract, and violations of the
Consumers Legal Remedies Act and the Financial Information Privacy Act.On
July 12, 2024, Plaintiff served discovery requests on Defendant. On
September 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved for an order deeming his Requests for
Admissions, Set One, as admitted and an order to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One. The court denied both motions. Plaintiff also filed
the instant motion at that time. On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging
six causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of
implied warranty of fitness for particular purpose, (4) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (5) unfair business practices, and (6)
unjust enrichment. Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide complete responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. DISCUSSION Applicable Law “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to timely respond to demand for
inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he party to whom the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to
the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand.” Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010, subdivision (d) provides that a misuse of the discovery
process is “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Code of Civil Procedure, section 2023.010, subdivision (h)
states that a misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing,
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or
limit discovery.”   “The court may impose a monetary sanction against
a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).  A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791.)Application to Facts Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One,
are insufficient because Defendant failed to verify the responses. (Motion to
Compel, p. 4.) Defendant
indicates that it served verifications on September 10, 2024. (Declaration of
Yemi Fasoro; Proof of Service of Verification.) Because verified responses have
been provided, the Motion to Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for
Production and Inspection of Documents, Set One, is denied. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff should be subject to sanctions due to a failure to meet
and confer prior to filing this motion. However, “[u]nlike a motion to compel further
responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit,
and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or
that it satisfied a ‘meet and confer’ requirement.” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacifici Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404.) Because the motion is denied, and based on the forgoing, the court
declines to impose sanctions.CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is
DENIED.Plaintiff
to give notice. If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. Brazile Department 20  

Hearing Date:                             Wednesday, October 16, 2024 

Case Name:                                Yuyuan Gao v. Payward, Inc.  

Case No.:                                     24STCV14159 

Motion:                                        Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories 

Moving Party:                                 Plaintiff
Yuyuan Gao 

Responding Party:                      Defendant Payward, Inc.  

Notice:                                         OK 



 



 

Ruling:                                    The Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories is DENIED. 

 

Plaintiff to give notice. 

 

If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 



 



 

BACKGROUND 

On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff Yuyuan Gao (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants
Payward, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1–100, inclusive, alleging Defendant
profited from Plaintiff’s transactions made on Defendant’s cryptocurrency
platform. Plaintiff alleged fifteen causes of action, including for fraudulent
misrepresentation, breach of contract, and violations of the Consumers Legal
Remedies Act and the Financial Information Privacy Act.

On
July 12, 2024, Plaintiff served discovery requests on Defendant. 

On
September 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved for an order deeming his Requests for
Admissions, Set One, as admitted and an order to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One. The court denied both motions. Plaintiff also filed
the instant motion at that time. 

On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging
six causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of
implied warranty of fitness for particular purpose, (4) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (5) unfair business practices, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 

Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide complete and verified
responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories-General, Set One. 

DISCUSSION 

Applicable Law 

“Within 30 days after service of
interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall
serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on
motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,
or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for
response.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If the party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The party propounding
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)   

Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing
to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Code of
Civil Procedure, section 2023.010, subdivision (h) states that a misuse of the
discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.”  
“The court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct” under
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).  A court has discretion to fix the amount
of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v.
Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)

Application to Facts 

Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, are
insufficient because Defendant failed to verify the responses. (Motion to
Compel, p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that because Defendant failed to verify the
responses, they are untimely, and Defendant waives its right to object to the
responses. 

Defendant
indicates that it served verifications on September 10, 2024. (Declaration of
Yemi Fasoro; Proof of Service of Verification.) Furthermore, the omission of a
verification does not waive timely served objections to a discovery request. (Food
4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651,
657–658.) Because verified responses have been provided, the Motion to Compel
Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, is denied. 

Defendant
argues that Plaintiff should be subject to sanctions due to a failure to meet
and confer prior to filing this motion. However, “[u]nlike a motion to compel further
responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit,
and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or
that it satisfied a ‘meet and confer’ requirement.” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacifici Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404.) Because the motion is denied, and based on the forgoing, the court
declines to impose sanctions.

CONCLUSION 

Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is DENIED.

Plaintiff
to give notice. 

If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 













































































 