 Case Number:  23STCV25594    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, October 16,
2024
Case Name:                            Ireli Astorga
Nevarez, et al. v. J.K. Residential Services, et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV25594
Motion:                                  Motion for
Protective Order
Moving Party:                         Defendant Haresh Jogani
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Ireli Astorga
Nevarez
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
for Protective Order is DENIED.
 
Defendant to give
notice.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Ireli Astorga Nevarez, Francisca Nevarez Sicairos, Juventino Garcia Gallegos, Sandra
Garcia, Sofia Garcia Astorga, and Octavio Garcia Astorga (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Haresh Jogani (“Defendant”); J.K. Residential
Services, Inc.; 7520 S. Broadway, LLC; and Does 1 to 100. The Complaint alleged
five causes of action: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (2) breach
of the warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq.; and (5) negligence. On June 18, 2024,
Plaintiffs served discovery on Defendant. On July 2, 2024, Defendant filed a
Motion for Dismissal, or in the Alternative, for Stay Based on Forum Non
Conveniens. 
            On July 10, 2024, Defendant filed an
ex parte Application for an Order to Stay Discovery, which the court granted,
allowing Defendant to stay discovery responses until September 11, 2024. On
July 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application to continue Defendant’s
motion to dismiss until after they had a fair opportunity to conduct discovery
on movant. On July 17, 2024, the court granted the continuance and ordered that
Defendant’s deposition be taken within thirty days following the ruling. On
July 30, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Reconsideration of the July 17, 2024
Order.
Defendant now moves for a protective order
precluding his deposition. 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            Before, during, or after a
deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or
organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025. 420(a).)  
The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other
natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b).)  
            “[W]hen a plaintiff seeks to depose
a corporate president or other official at the highest level of corporate
management, and that official moves for a protective order to prohibit the
deposition, the trial court should first determine whether the plaintiff has
shown good cause that the official has unique or superior personal knowledge of
discoverable information. If not, as will presumably often be the case in the
instance of a large national or international corporation, the trial court
should issue the protective order and first require the plaintiff to obtain the
necessary discovery through less-intrusive methods.” (Liberty Mutual Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court¿(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1289 (Liberty Mutual).)
“Should these avenues be exhausted, and the plaintiff make a colorable showing
of good cause that the high-level official possesses necessary information to
the case, the trial court may then lift the protective order and allow the
deposition to proceed.” (Ibid.)  
Therefore, “it amounts to an abuse of
discretion to withhold a protective order when a plaintiff seeks to depose a
corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of the corporate
hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer's personal knowledge
of the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery methods.” (Id.
at p. 1287.) 
Meet
and Confer
A
motion for a protective order must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) The attached Declaration
of Zena M. Kalioundji, attorney of record for Defendant, does not specifically
identify any meet and confer efforts prior to filing this motion. Therefore,
the requirement that parties meet and confer has not been met.
Application
to Facts
1.     Protective
Order
The
court finds that Plaintiffs have shown good cause to depose Defendant in order
to establish personal jurisdiction. However, the court finds that Plaintiffs
have not shown good cause to establish Defendant has unique or superior
personal knowledge of discoverable information. Nevertheless, Defendant’s
Motion for Protective Order is denied, due to a failure to meet and confer
prior. 
Defendant argues he is a director of J.K.
Properties, Inc., and does not have everyday knowledge of what occurs at the
property or a witness to any of the events that occurred at the property during
the alleged habitability issues. (Motion for Protective Order, p. 6;
Declaration of Ritesh Desai, ¶¶ 2, 4.) Defendant relies on Preciado v.
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964 for the
proposition that Plaintiff must provide affidavits and other competent evidence
to show facts that justify the exercise of jurisdiction. (Reply to Opposition,
p. 9.) Defendant further argues that Plaintiffs have not shown what information
they believe will be obtained from Defendant, or the basis for the belief that
he would have relevant knowledge or information. (Motion for Protective Order,
p. 6.) 
However. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
reliance on Liberty Mutual’s apex doctrine is improper because
Plaintiffs are seeking to depose him to assess whether the court has personal
jurisdiction over him, not to seek information from a director of other entity
Defendants in the underlying action. (Opposition to Motion, pp. 6–7.)
Plaintiffs argue that there is a corresponding right to discovery with the
burden to prove Defendant’s sufficient minimum contacts. (Opposition to Motion,
p. 7.) Plaintiffs identify their areas of inquiry to include information about
Defendant’s business enterprises in Los Angeles County, the status of interests
he holds, and his business dealings in Los Angeles County over the last several
years. (Opposition to Motion, p. 8.)
In this case, Plaintiffs have demonstrated
that discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts
establishing jurisdiction, which is required under Preciado v. Freightliner
Custom Chassis Corp. (Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp.
(2023) 87 Cal.App.5th at 973.) Plaintiffs’ allegations of Defendants’ business
contacts and possible use of California courts demonstrate a likelihood that
discovery will yield information relevant to determining personal jurisdiction.
Furthermore, the court has previously granted a continuance on Defendant’s
motion to dismiss and ordered his deposition to be taken. Plaintiffs have
previously shown good cause to depose Defendant and establish the court’s
personal jurisdiction over him. The court finds that Plaintiffs have shown good
cause to depose Defendant on issues necessary to establish personal
jurisdiction.
However, the court finds that Plaintiffs
have not shown good cause, that Defendant has unique or superior personal
knowledge of discoverable information, to depose him as to the issues in the
case beyond personal jurisdiction.  
Plaintiffs argue that the apex doctrine
does not apply to Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order beyond the issue of
personal jurisdiction because Defendant is being sued in his personal capacity
as the owner of the property at issue in this case, not just as director of
entity Defendant J.K. Properties. (Opposition to Motion, p. 8.) Plaintiffs’
allegations seek to pierce the corporate veils of the entity Defendants and
hold Defendant personally liable for Plaintiffs’ damages. (Opposition to
Motion, p. 8.)
When a corporate officer sued in their
personal capacity, the primary considerations from the apex doctrine are still
relevant, as the rationale for the apex doctrine seeks to prevent high-level
officials from being deposed when they are unlikely to have unique information pertaining
to the case. (Liberty Mutual, 10 Cal.App.4th at 1287.) In their
Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant personally failed to structure,
operate, and manage Defendants 7520 S. Broadway, LLC; J.K. Properties, Inc.;
and J.K. Residential Services. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant committed the unlawful acts underlying their five causes of action,
or had advance knowledge of the unfitness of agents, employees, or
representative who committed the unlawful acts. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) These
allegations do not identify specific discoverable material that weighs toward
Defendant’s personal involvement in the management and operation of the
premises that underlie Plaintiffs’ causes of action. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not
shown good cause that Defendant has unique personal knowledge, and orders
Plaintiffs to seek discovery on matters beyond the issue of personal
jurisdiction via less intrusive discovery methods, for example, by written
examination or interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (6),(7).)
Finally, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has
refused to respond to less intrusive discovery, like written discovery
requests, and a recent ruling by another department in this court noted that
Defendant “willfully refused and failed to comply with several prior orders
compelling him to produce evidence.” (Opposition to Motion, p. 10.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ propounded written discovery went much
further than information related to minimum contacts—Defendant argues that only
7 out of 104 Special Interrogatories, 3 of 35 Requests for Production, 12 of
105 Requests for Documents, and none of the Form Interrogatories relate to
Defendant’s minimum contacts. (Reply to Opposition, pp. 3–6.) Defendant argues
that the information sought in Plaintiffs’ written deposition make it clear
that Plaintiffs seek to depose Defendant as a percipient witness to their
claims, not just to establish the court’s personal jurisdiction. (Reply to
Opposition, p. 7.) Based on the court’s findings above, Plaintiffs cannot
depose Defendant as witness, and can instead seek this information via Special Interrogatories,
Requests for Production, Requests for Documents, and Form Interrogatories, like
the ones they have already propounded.
Based on the forgoing, the court DENIES
Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order due to a failure to meet and confer
prior to the motion. Defendant is ordered to attend deposition regarding the
issue of personal jurisdiction.
2.     Sanctions
In their Opposition to Defendant’s Motion
for Protective Order, Plaintiffs seek sanctions of $1,600.00, because
Defendant’s Motion did not include a meet and confer declaration and was “made
in bad faith.” (Opposition to Motion, pp. 12–13.) In his Reply, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions does not meet the procedural
requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure, section 2023.040, because
sanctions are not included in the Opposition’s caption or notice. (Reply to
Opposition, p. 2.)
            However,
Defendant failed to meet and confer prior to the filing of this motion. The
court must impose a monetary sanction on a party or attorney who fails to meet
and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020.) The court accordingly
grants sanctions of $700.00 to Plaintiffs.
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s Motion for Protective
Order is DENIED. Plaintiffs may depose Defendant as to the issue of personal
jurisdiction. Defendant to pay sanctions of $700.00.
            Defendant to give notice.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.