 Case Number:  23STCP01071    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  K  
1.         Cross-Defendant
Rachel M. Darvish’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
in part (i.e., as to the first and second causes of action), OVERRULED in part
(i.e., as to the third, fifth and sixth causes of action) and OVERRULED as MOOT
in part (i.e., as to the fourth cause of action). Rahbar’s joinder is GRANTED.
 
2.         Cross-Defendant
Rachel M. Darvish’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from the First Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED as MOOT in part (i.e., as to Paragraphs 31 and 51)
and GRANTED in part (i.e., as to Paragraphs 23, 44 and Paragraph 2 from the
prayer). Rahbar’s joinder is GRANTED.
Background   
Plaintiff Annex Walnut Automotive
Colors & Supply, Inc. (“Annex”) alleges as follows:
Annex is a
distributor of automotive and industrial coatings and paint. Rachel M. Darvish
("Darvish"), Keyvan Rahbar (“Rahbar”) and Maryam Rouillard
(“Rouillard”) each own 33% of the outstanding shares and voting power of Annex.
Rouillard has been responsible for the day-to-day management and operations of
Annex. Annex seeks to wind up and dissolve. Rouillard has never distributed any
income to Darvish and Rahbar but has reported to the IRS distributions to both.
In December 2022, Rouillard informed Darvish and Rahbar of her plans to retire,
that she had arranged to sell sale of Annex to one its competitors, Wesco
Group, LLC. (hereinafter "Wesco Group") and that she and Wesco Group
had agreed on a total estimated purchase price of $1,308,385.00. On January 30,
2023, Rouillard changed Annex’s Statement of Information on file with the
California Secretary of State to name herself as agent for service of process
and its only director and Chief Executive Officer. On March 6, 2023, Darvish,
Rahbar and Rouillard met to discuss how the sale and distribution of the
proceeds would be handled; during that meeting, Rouillard became angry and
physically assaulted Darvish. Rouillard interfered with the sale due in part to
the March 6th incident, causing Wesco Group to withdraw from the
transaction. On or about May 1, 2023, Darvish and Rahbar contacted Wesco Group
and were able to revive Wesco Group's initial offer to purchase Annex. On May
17, 2023, in order to effectuate the sale, Wesco Group submitted a list of
documents to be produced by Annex. Rouillard is one of two individuals
affiliated with Annex who has access to this information, the other person
being Rouillard's nephew, Amir Karimpour (“Karimpour”). Rouillard has failed to
cooperate and has directed Annex’s employees, including Karimpour, not to
cooperate and supply the requested information. Rouillard has contacted
representatives of Wesco Group, as well as other third parties and potential
buyers, and informed them that she will prevent the sale of Annex to Wesco
Group or to those third-party buyers.
On June 8, 2023, Annex filed a
“Verified First Amended Petition,” asserting causes of action against
Rouillard, John Kobes, Calvin Kobes and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Request for Court Supervision Over Voluntary
Dissolution—California Corporations Code Section 1904
2.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
3.                 
Conversion
4.                 
Fraud
5.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations
6.                 
Declaratory Relief
On July 7, 2023, an “Order on Petitioner Annex Walnut Automotive Colors
& Supply, Inc.’s Motion for the Appointment of a Receiver” was filed;
that day, the matter was reassigned to this instant department.
On August 17, 2023, the court
related Case No. 23PSCV01022 to the instant case
and designated the instant case as the lead case.
On
November 20, 2023, Rouillard filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”),
asserting causes of action against Darvish, Rahbar, Annex and Roes 21-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
2.                 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
3.                 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
4.                 
Fraud
5.                 
Common Count
6.                 
Declaratory Relief
On
November 21, 2023, an “Order Authorizing Receiver Kevin Singer to Draw Upon
Annex Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc., Wells Fargo Line of Credit
Account” was entered.
On
December 22, 2023, an “Order to Show Cause Re: Contempt Against Defendant” was
entered.
A
Trial Setting Conference and an Order to Show Cause Re: Why the Defendant
Should Not be Held in Contempt of Court are set for January 24, 2024.
Case
No. 23PSCV01022

Plaintiff M&K Partners
(“M&K”) alleges as follows:
M&K is a general
partnership between Lilly Darvish and Rahbar. On October 4, 2019, Rouillard
caused legal title to the property located at 17999 East Valley Boulevard, City
of Industry, CA 91744 (“property”) to be transferred to MMK Partners, LLC (“MMK
Partners”). The transfer was unauthorized and made without consideration. 
On May 30, 2023, M&K filed a
First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against MMK Partners,
Kamran Ghoreyshi (“Ghoreyshi”), Rouillard, all
persons unknown claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or
interest in the property described in the complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s
title, or any cloud on Plaintiff’s title thereto and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Quiet Title
2.                 
Cancellation of Deed
3.                 
Fraud
On August 17, 2023, the court
related Case No. 23STCP01071 to the instant case and designated Case No.
23STCP01071 as the lead case.
On December 6, 2023, M&K
dismissed MMK Partners, Ghoreyshi and Does 1-20, without prejudice.
A Trial Setting Conference is set
for January 24, 2024.
1.         Demurrer
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Darvish demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the first through sixth causes of
action in Rouillard’s FACC, on the basis that they each fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
Joinder
Rahbar’s joinder is timely filed and is
granted.
Merits
1.                 
First
and Second Causes of Action (i.e., Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Aiding and
Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Respectively)
Darvish first asserts that the facts upon
which the first and second of action are based are within the scope of the
litigation privilege.
“A privileged publication. . . is one made: .
. . (b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any
other official capacity authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation of course
of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure . . .” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b).)
The privilege
“has been given broad application” and is applicable “to any communication,
whether or not it amounts to a publication and all torts except malicious
prosecution,” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 211-212). It
also applies “to any publication required or permitted by law in the course of
a judicial proceeding to achieve the objects of the litigation, even though the
publication is made outside the courtroom and no function of the court or its
officers is involved.” (Id. at 212). “The usual formulation is that the
privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action.” (Id.)
Rouillard has
alleged that “Rahbar and Darvish . . . have intentionally breached their
fiduciary duties by at least the following: (i) forcing the cross-complainant
out of the management duties of the business after some thirty years in which
she bult a thriving business and was held in high esteem and respect by the
business’ clients; (ii) appointing Karimpour as the de facto manager of the
business despite his previous failed record; (iii) causing the plummeting of
the sales in the absence of the “face of the business” (iv) failing to collect
on account receivable; (v) failing to connect with the stable client; (vi)
failing to collect on rent; (vii) significantly increasing the costs of
operation by employing a pricy receiver that has failed to navigate the
business to health; (viii) exhausting the financial resources and causing the
business to attempt to accumulate debt to finance its basic operation; (ix)
failure to pay overdue compensation to officers of the corporation thus
exposing it to liability.” (FACC, ¶ 27).
Only one portion
of the above allegations expressly touches upon the judicial proceedings (i.e.,
that pertaining to the “pricy [sic] receiver;” the remaining allegations cannot
all be said to constitute communications made in a judicial proceeding.
Darvish’s demurrer is overruled on this basis, inasmuch as a demurrer cannot be
made to part of a cause of action.
Darvish next
asserts that Rouillard’s first and second causes of action must be brought as a
derivative action on behalf of Annex. “It is a general rule that a
corporation which suffers damages through wrongdoing by its officers and directors
must itself bring the action to recover the losses thereby occasioned, or if
the corporation fails to bring the action, suit may be filed by a stockholder
acting derivatively on behalf of the corporation.” (Nelson v. Anderson
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 124 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) Rouillard
pleads only that Rahbar and Darvish, as officer of Annex, owed a fiduciary duty
“to ANNEX” and to “place the interest of ANNEX ahead of their own
individual interests” and to “make and recommend business decisions in the best
interests of ANNEX.” (Id., ¶ 27 [emphasis added].) (See Nelson,
supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at 125 [“Because all of the acts alleged to have caused
Nelson's injury amount to alleged misfeasance or negligence in managing the
corporation's business, causing the business to be a total failure, any
obligations so violated were duties owed directly and immediately to the
corporation”].) Darvish’s demurrer is sustained on this basis.
2.                 
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress)
“The tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress is comprised of three elements:
(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; and
(3) the plaintiff's injuries were actually and proximately caused by the
defendant's outrageous conduct.” (Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
488, 494.)
Darvish
erroneously quotes Paragraphs 33 and 34 from Rouillard’s original
cross-complaint in arguing that Rouillard’s third cause of action is not
adequately pled. This language is not set forth in the FACC, however. Darvish
next states that “[t]he allegations of malfeasance must be brought as a
derivative claim and the majority electing to pursue liquidation is absolutely
privileged,” without providing any supporting authority. Darvish’s demurrer is
overruled.
3.                 
Fourth
Cause of Action (i.e., Fraud)
Darvish demurs to Rouillard’s fourth cause of
action; however, this cause of action is not asserted against her. Darvish’s
demurrer, then, is summarily overruled as moot.
4.                 
Fifth
Cause of Action (i.e., Common Count)
The elements of a
common count are: “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [internal quotations
and citation omitted].)
Rouillard has alleged that “ANNEX and Darvish
became indebted to” her (FACC, ¶ 53); that she “provided management and
operational services as requested and lent money to ANNEX” (Id., ¶ 54);
that “Cross-Defendants have not fully paid for the services provided by
Cross-Complainant” (Id., ¶ 55); that Cross-Defendants now owe her
$500,000.00, plus interest (Id., ¶ 56); that in or about 2021, Darvish
borrowed $156,800.00 from her (Id., ¶ 57); that she and Darvish agreed
that the borrowed amount with any interest would be repaid in 2023 “as Darvish
planned to use ANNEX’s funds to do so” (Id., ¶ 57) and that “Darvish
owes [her] a total of $156,800 with applicable interest.”
Although the
$500,000.00 referenced in Paragraphs 53-56 appear to involve monies owed by
Annex only (though this is unclear), Rouillard has sufficiently alleged that
Darvish is indebted to her for $156,800.00, which Darvish has failed to pay. Darvish’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled.
5.                 
Sixth
Cause of Action (i.e., Declaratory Relief)
Darvish, without more, contends that the
declaratory relief cause of action should also be dismissed “[s]ince the FACC fails
to state any claim against Rahbar or Darvish.” (Demurrer, 10:7).
Darvish’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.
2.         Darvish Motion to Strike
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Darvish moves to strike out Paragraphs 23, 31, 44, 51 and
Paragraph 2 from the prayer on page 12 in Rouillard’s FACC.
The motion is summarily denied as moot in part (i.e., as to
Paragraphs 31 and 51), based upon the ruling made on the demurrer.
Punitive damages may be awarded upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subject a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
Paragraphs 23 and 44 are conclusory and factually
unsupported. The motion is granted in this regard.