 Case Number:  23PSCV02704    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
2.         Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiff Ana Cecilia Lerma
Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On April 24, 2021, Plaintiff entered
into a warranty contract with American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding
a 2021 Honda Civic, VIN No. 2HGFC2F69MH552933 (“subject vehicle”). The subject
vehicle is equipped with a computerized driver-assisting safety system known as
“Honda Sensing,” which includes adaptive cruise control, lane departure
warnings and steering inputs, and autonomous braking. The Honda Sensing system
suffers from a defect that causes the various subsystems within it to
malfunction dangerously while the vehicles are driven (“Sensing Defect”). Defendant
knew or should have known about the Sensing Defect before the subject vehicle was
sold and failed to disclose same. 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting causes of action against
Defendant and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code
Section 1793.2 
2.                 
Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code
Section 1793.2 
3.                 
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
Section 1793.2 
4.                 
Breach
of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability
5.                 
Fraudulent
Inducement—Concealment 

A Case Management Conference is set for January 24, 2024.
1.         Demurrer
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[citations omitted].)
Discussion
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause
of action (i.e., for Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment)
in Plaintiff’s FAC, on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court denies Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice as unnecessary.
(Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
26, 45, fn. 9 [“A request for judicial notice of published material is
unnecessary. Citation to the material is sufficient.”].)
Merits
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma
v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248
[citation and internal quotations omitted].)
There are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.” (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) “[A] duty
to disclose may arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer
and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind
of contractual agreement.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th
326, 337.)
Plaintiff has sufficiently pled the elements of fraudulent
inducement—concealment. Plaintiff has alleged that on or about April 24,
2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a
2021 Honda Civic, VIN No. 2HGFC2F69MH552933 (“subject vehicle”), which was
manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant (FAC, ¶ 6); that Plaintiff
thereafter presented the subject vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair
facility on April 25, 2022 and August 29, 2022 with various concerns, including
the sensing system with the auto brake activating while Plaintiff was driving
the subject vehicle and nothing was in front of the subject vehicle (Id.,
¶¶ 23 and 24); that Defendant designed, manufactured, tested, warranted,
advertised, distributed, sold, and leased 2017-2020 Honda CR-V and 2016-2020
Honda Accord vehicles, including the Subject Vehicle, which were equipped with
a computerized driver-assisting safety system known as “Honda Sensing” system (Id.,
¶ 63); that the “Honda Sensing” system suffers from a defect (“Sensing Defect”)
that causes the various subsystems within it to malfunction while vehicles are
driven which impedes the systems' ability to reliably and accurately detect and
appropriately respond to conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the
adaptive cruise control, the lane-departure system, and the Collision
Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”) (Id., ¶ 64); that Honda knew of the
Sensing Defect prior to selling the subject vehicle to Plaintiff, based on
pre-production and post-production testing, numerous customer complaints,
warranty claims data compiled from Honda 's network of dealers, testing conducted
by Honda in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part
replacements data received by Honda from Honda's network of dealers (Id.,
¶ 68); that Defendant and its agents concealed the existence and nature of the
Sensing Defect from Plaintiff at the time of purchase (and/or lease), repair
and thereafter (Id., ¶ 71); that Plaintiff is a reasonable consumer who
interacted with sales representatives, considered Defendant’s advertisement
and/or other marketing materials concerning the Honda Vehicles prior to
purchasing the subject vehicle (Id., ¶ 76); that had Honda revealed the Sensing
Defect, Plaintiff would have been aware of it and would not have purchased the
subject vehicle (Id.); that Defendant also continues to conceal the fact
that the software updates and replacement components it provides in an false
attempt to repair the defect are equally defective (Id., ¶ 74); and that
Plaintiff was harmed by purchasing a vehicle that she would not have leased
and/or purchased had she known the true facts about the Sensing Defect and
unknowingly exposed herself to the risk of liability, accident and/or injury as
a result of Defendant's fraudulent concealment of the Sensing Defect (Id.,
¶ 84).
Additionally, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant had
exclusive knowledge. Courts have defined “exclusive” as having been met if the
defendant had superior knowledge of a defect. (See Falk v. General Motors
Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1097 [“It is true that prospective
purchasers, with access to the Internet, could have read the many complaints
about the failed speedometers (as quoted in the complaint). Some may have. But
GM is alleged to have known a lot
more about the defective speedometers, including information unavailable to the
public. Many customers would not have performed an Internet search before
beginning a car search. Nor were they required to do so”]. Plaintiff has
alleged that Defendant was under a duty to Plaintiff to disclose the defective
nature of the subject vehicle and its Sensing Defect, its safety consequences
and/or the associated repair costs because Defendant “acquired its
knowledge of the Sensing Defect and its potential consequences prior to
Plaintiff acquiring the Vehicle, through sources not available to consumers
such as Plaintiff, including but not limited to pre-production testing data,
early consumer complaints about the Sensing Defect made directly to Honda and
its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from HONDA's network
of dealers, testing conducted by Honda in response to these complaints, as well
as warranty repair and part replacements data received by Honda from Honda's
network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal information,” that “Honda
was in a superior position from various internal sources to know (or should
have known) the true state of facts about the material defects of the sensing
systems contained in Honda Vehicles” and that “Plaintiff could not reasonably
have been expected to learn or discover of the Vehicle's Sensing Defect and its
potential consequences until well after Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle.” (Id.,
¶ 80).
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.
2.         Motion to
Strike
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Defendant moves to strike out the following portions of
Plaintiff’s FAC:
1.                 
Page 19, Prayer for Relief line (e): “For punitive
damages.”
Punitive damages may be awarded upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subject a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c).)
“When the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive
damages against a corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's
employees. But the law does not impute every employee’s malice to the
corporation. Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated,
authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of
the corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 123, 164 [internal citation omitted].)
Plaintiff has sufficiently pled her second cause of action
for Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment, as set forth above. The second cause of
action allows for punitive damages.
Defendant’s motion, then, is denied.