  Case Number:  22CHCV01133    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  F51  AUGUST 5,  2024    MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV01133    Motion Filed: 5/17/24                                                                        NON-JURY TRIAL: 2/3/25   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Providence Health  System – Southern California dba Providence Holy Cross Medical Center (erroneously  sued as Providence Holy Cross) (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Ceasar Carrillo,  an individual, by and through his mother, Maria G. Carrillo in her capacity as  his guardian ad litem (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE:  OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment in favor of Moving Defendant and against Plaintiff  on Plaintiff’s complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted.   Plaintiff is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking  declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these  requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being  placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in  compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the  imposition of sanctions.   BACKGROUND   This is a medical malpractice action in which Plaintiff  alleges that in 2016, at Moving Defendant’s hospital, nonmoving defendant  medical providers negligently treated his mother, Maria Carillo (“Ms.  Carillo”), who was 34 weeks pregnant with Plaintiff, resulting in Ms. Carillo’s  appendix bursting and Plaintiff being born several weeks premature, “with  numerous and significant complications, including but not limited to  respiratory distress, neonatal sepsis, right sided intraventricular brain  hemorrhage and grade IV left sided intraventricular brain hemorrhage, subdural  hematoma, and subarachnoid hemorrhage resulting in hydrocephalus that has  required the implantation of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt in Ceasar Carrillo’s  brain.” (Compl. ¶¶ 12–15.)   On 11/10/22, Plaintiff filed  his complaint, alleging against five named defendants the sole cause of action  for Medical Malpractice. On 4/11/23, Moving Defendant filed its answer.   On 5/17/24,  Moving Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On 7/25/24,  Plaintiff filed his opposition. On 8/1/24, Moving Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for  summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an  opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to  enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure  section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary  judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably  deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or  evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that  the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,  381–382.)    As to each claim as framed  by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the  initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or  to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D.  B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met  that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of  one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense  thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the  motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)    A.     Medical  Malpractice   Plaintiff’s first cause of  action alleges against all Defendants Medical Malpractice – Professional  Negligence. “The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1)  a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the  profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a  proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and  (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Solutions, Inc.  (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges an  agency theory of liability against Moving Defendant. “An agency is either  actual or ostensible.” (Civ. Code § 2298.)    1.       Actual Agency   “An agency is actual when  the agent is really employed by the principal.” (Civ. Code § 2299.) Here,  Moving Defendant argues that Ms. Carillo’s treating physicians were not Moving  Defendant’s employees/agents, but independent contractors. (MSJ 5:26–27.) In  support of this argument, Moving Defendant proffers the sworn declaration of  its Chief Medical Officer attesting as such. (Ex. F to Decl. of Megan P. Best,  ¶ 3.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Moving Defendant has  satisfied its initial burden to negate an element of Plaintiff’s Medical  Malpractice cause of action. As Plaintiff does not dispute these facts, the  Court finds that no triable issue exists as to whether the treating physicians  were actual agents of Moving Defendant.   2.       Ostensible Agency   Under some circumstances, a  hospital or other institution, under the doctrine of ostensible agency, may  become directly liable to the patient for the malpractice of health care  providers, including those in independent, non-salaried practices. (Jacoves  v. United Merchandising Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 103–104.) “An agency  is ostensible when the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care,  causes a third person to believe another to be his agent who is not really  employed by him.” (Civ. Code § 2300.) The elements required for a finding of  ostensible agency are: (1) the patient dealing with the ostensible agent must  do so with the reasonable belief in the agent’s authority; (2) such belief must  be generated by some act or neglect of the principal (i.e., the hospital)  sought to be charged; and (3) the patient, in relying on the agent’s apparent  authority, must not be negligent in doing so. (J.L. v. Children's Institute,  Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 403–404; Stanhope v. Los Angeles  College of Chiropractic (1942) 54 Cal.App.2d 141, 146.)   An ostensible agency may be  found “when the hospital ‘holds itself out’ to the public as a provider of  care.” (Mejia v. Community Hospital of San Bernardino (2002) 99  Cal.App.4th 1448, 1453.) “A hospital is generally deemed to have held itself  out as the provider of care, unless it gave the patient contrary notice.”  (Id. at 1454 [emphasis added].) “Prior notice may not be sufficient to  avoid liability in an emergency room context, where an injured patient in need  of immediate medical care cannot be expected to understand or act upon that  information.” (Ibid.) “Thus, unless the patient had some reason to know  of the true relationship between the hospital and the physician—i.e., because the  hospital gave the patient actual notice or because the patient was treated  by his or her personal physician—ostensible agency is readily inferred.” (Id.  at 1454–1455 [emphasis added].)   Here, Moving Defendant  argues that Plaintiff was given a Conditions and Admissions form each time she  visited the hospital for care, which she signed on three of the four instances.  (MSJ 1:13–3:11.) The form contains a provision titled “PHYSICIANS ARE  INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS,” and stating that “the undersigned  recognizes that all physicians, physician assistants, and surgeons furnishing  service to the patient, including the radiologist, pathologist,  anesthesiologist, emergency room physician, physician assistants, and the like,  are independent contractors and are not employees or agents of the hospital.”  (Ex. A to Best Decl., ¶ 14.)   Moving Defendant argues that “any allegations that  conduct by Providence Holy Cross would have caused a reasonable person to  believe the defendant physicians were agents or employees of the hospital are  rebutted by the four written notices of the lack of an agency or employment  relationship that were received and reviewed by Ms. Carrillo.” (MSJ 8:6–10.) In  support of its argument, Moving Defendant proffers copies of the four separate  Conditions and Admissions forms, three of which are signed and initialed by Ms.  Carillo, including her initials next to the subject provision, with the fourth  form signed and initialed by her mother. (Exs. A, C–E to Best Decl.) Moving  Defendant also proffers Ms. Carillo’s deposition testimony, wherein she states  that she was alert and able to communicate and understand her nurses and  physicians at the time she was given the forms. (Ex. B to Best Decl.,  197:13–208:13.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Moving  Defendant has met its initial burden to negate an element of Plaintiff’s  Medical Malpractice cause of action. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to  produce substantial evidence showing that a triable issue remains.   Plaintiff argues in  opposition that a triable issue remains because “for her part, undoubtedly due  to the emergent circumstances of her admission to Providence Holy Cross,  coupled with extreme pain, and justifiable concern about her baby, Ms. Carrillo  never obtained an understanding of the legal relationship between Providence  Holy Cross and the physicians treating her there, assuming that they were all  employees of the hospital.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:6–11, citing Ex. 2 to Decl. of Kenneth  J. Melrose, ¶¶ 3–5.) “Even with respect to the forms signed earlier on February  27, 2016, Ms. Carrillo did not remember reviewing them, thought [sic] she did  not dispute they bore her signature. (Id. at 7:19–21, citing Ex.  B to Best Decl., 199:21–200:15.)   Plaintiff therefore argues  that “it is a clear question of fact whether at any time, Ms. Carrillo knew  that the physicians providing care at Providence Holy Cross were independent  contractors and Plaintiff has adduced clear evidence that she did not.” (Id.  at 7:25–8:1.) Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s anticipated argument  regarding Ms. Carrillo’s capacity to understand the document on March 16, 2016,  is belied by Ms. Carrillo’s repeated receipt of the Conditions of Admission  forms, repeated signatures and initials on the forms, and her ‘capacity of  reading and understanding’ (she testified she was alert and oriented) the  Conditions of Admission forms, all of which were confirmed during the course of  her deposition.” (MSJ 10:27–11:4.)   “The general rule is that  when a person with the capacity of reading and understanding an instrument  signs it, he is, in the absence of fraud and imposition, bound by its contents,  and is estopped from saying that its provisions are contrary to his intentions  or understanding.” (Jefferson v. California Department of Youth  Authority (2002) 28 Cal.4th 299, 303.) Here, the Court finds that Moving  Defendant has proffered evidence that Ms. Carillo had the capacity to read and  understand each Conditions and Admissions form before she signed it, and  further notes that Plaintiff does not allege any fraud or imposition in Ms.  Carillo’s assent to the terms.    As Moving Defendant argues in reply, “the undisputed  facts do not show the existence of an ostensible agency relationship between  Holy Cross and the co-defendant physicians, and do not overcome the presumption  that Ms. Carrillo had actual notice of the lack of any employment or agency  relationship.” (Def.’s Reply 7:8–11.) “Ms. Carrillo repeatedly received actual  notice of the lack of agency or employment relationship and repeatedly signed  and initialed forms indicating she read and understood the lack of agency and  employment relationship.” (Id. at 8:2–4.) “It is uncontested that  Ms. Carrillo was alert, able to communicate, and able to comprehend each time  she received and signed the Conditions of Admission forms.” (Id. at  9:3–5.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff, by way of Ms. Carillo’s declaration, has failed to create an issue  of material fact regarding Ms. Carillo’s treating physicians being ostensible  agents of Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is  granted.   CONCLUSION   The motion is granted. Defendant to submit proposed Judgment  within 10 days.    