On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.  Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.Doe 36 has been identified as Defendant BASF Corporation.Defendant BASF Corporation seeks a determination that its settlement with Plaintiff was made in good faith pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6.Because no oppositions were filed, the Motion may be granted without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.”)  Plaintiff alleges that he was injured by toxic butter-spray.  Defendant has tendered a confidential payment (the Court has reviewed this amount) to Plaintiff in exchange for a release of all claims.  Defendant indicates that it “(1) is only one of over thirty-five named defendants in this action, (2) was an upstream component part seller during only part of the time period at issue in the SAC, and (3) may not even have had a single component part used in the finished product at issue, even if BASF could be found liable at trial, it would have only a small percentage of that potential liability.” Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  Therefore, the Motion is granted. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.