 Case Number:  23TRCV00205    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
MAMDOUH
  KHALAF, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00205




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PCH
  DENTAL, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September
26, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Maha Hanna, DDS Inc., dba PCH Dental
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant’s Form Interrogatories-General, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days.
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s Request for Identification
and Production of Documents and Other Tangible Things, Set One, and (2) to
produce all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or
control, which are responsive to defendant’s request, within 20 days. 
The court awards sanctions in favor
of defendant and against plaintiff in the amount of $630 in total for all three
motions, to be paid within 30 days.  
BACKGROUND
            On January 23, 2023, Mamdouh Khalaf
(self-represented) filed a complaint against PCH Dental and Hanfu Lee for (1)
NIED, (2) negligence, and (3) medical battery. 
            On August 8, 2023, the court
sustained defendant Maha Hanna, DDS Inc., dba PCH Dental’s demurrer to the 1st
and 3rd causes of action without leave to amend.  The court sustained the demurrer as to the 2nd
cause of action with leave to amend to allow plaintiff to sign the
complaint.  The motion to strike was
granted without leave to amend. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Maha Hanna, DDS Inc. dba PCH Dental requests that the court compel plaintiff to
respond to its initial form and special interrogatories and request for production
of documents.
            Defendant
asserts that on June 26, 2023, it propounded its discovery requests via mail on
plaintiff.  Responses were due by July
31, 2023.  On August 8, 2023, defense
counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff attempting to get a response
to the outstanding discovery and requested verified responses “without
objections, on or before August 21, 2023 to avoid our office filing a motion to
compel.”  To date, defense counsel has
not received responses.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to serve responses.  The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant
requests $3,600 in sanctions against plaintiff in total for all three motions. 
The court finds that $630 ($180/hr. x 2.5 hrs. hr.,
$180 in filing fees) is a reasonable amount to be awarded against plaintiff in
total for all three motions. 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.