 Case Number:  22TRCV00926    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
ALEXIS
  MIKAYLA RODRIGUEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00926




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LA
  COUNTY MTA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 26, 2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Alexis Mikayla Rodriguez
Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay All Proceedings
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On October 11, 2022, plaintiff
Alexis Mikayla Rodriguez filed a complaint against Los Angeles County MTA for
(1) negligence (Gov. Code §815.2), (2) violation of Vehicle Code §§22350 and
17001, and (3) negligence (Gov. Code §820(a)). 
Plaintiff alleges that on April 3, 2020, at approximately 8:00 p.m.,
plaintiff was a lawful passenger in a motor vehicle, which was lawfully
proceeding on Hawthorne Blvd. at or near the subject intersection.  Defendant’s bus was proceeding northbound on
Hawthorne Blvd. at or near the subject intersection when it collided with the
car plaintiff was riding.  
            On January 10, 2023, LA County MTA
filed a cross-complaint against Shuyun Yang and Uber Technologies, Inc. for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.
On March 29, 2023, the court
granted in part plaintiff’s motions to compel written discovery.  The requests to compel were moot but the
court ordered defendant to pay sanctions.
On May 30, 2023, plaintiff filed a
FAC against LA County MTA, Kenneth Wells, Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC,
Rasier-CA, and Shuyun Yang for (1) negligence (Gov. Code §815.2), (2) violation
of Vehicle Code §§22350 and 17001, (3) negligence (Gov. Code §820), (4) general
negligence, and (5) motor vehicle.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC request that the court compel the claims
against them to arbitration.
            Existence of an Enforceable
Agreement
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Uber defendants contend that
plaintiff initially registered for an Uber account on July 18, 2014 and therein
accepted Uber’s Terms of Use, which included an arbitration agreement.  Todd Gaddis decl., Exhs. A, B.  They assert that plaintiff further received
an email on November 14, 2016, providing notice of updated Terms of Use.  Gaddis decl., Exhs. C-E.  Defendants also contend that on March 21,
2021, December 25, 2021, and January 23, 2023, plaintiff was presented with an
in-app blocking pop-up screen with the header, “We’ve updated our terms” and
stated, “We encourage you to read our Updated Terms in full.”  Gaddis decl., Exh. F.  The in-app blocking pop-up screen precluded
the use of the Uber app unless or until a user clicked the checkbox on the
screen and clicked the large “Confirm” button at the bottom of the screen.  The in-app blocking pop-up screen stated that
“By checking the box, I have reviewed and agree to the Terms of Use and
acknowledge the Privacy Notice.”  When a
user clicks the checkbox and clicks the “Confirm” button a record of this
consent is electronically captured, recorded, maintained, and stored in the
ordinary course of Uber’s business at the time of the events being
recorded.  This record is linked to the
user’s email address and/or mobile telephone number associated with the user’s
account.  Gaddis decl., ¶¶11, 13.  Plaintiff consented to the January 18, 2021,
December 16, 2021, and January 17, 2023 Terms on March 31, 2021, December 25,
2021, and January 23, 2023 by clicking the checkbox and tapping “Confirm.”  Gaddis decl., ¶14, Exh. A.  Defendants assert that all three revised
terms contain a “clear and conspicuous Arbitration Agreement.”  Gaddis decl., ¶15, Exh. G.
The agreement states in part:  “(a) Agreement to Binding Arbitration Between
You and Uber.  Except as expressly
provided below in Section 2(b) [relating to small claims, sexual
assault/harassment claims, intellectual property claims], you and Uber agree
that any dispute, claim or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to
(i) these Terms and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach,
termination, enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof,
(ii) your access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii) incidents or
accidents resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in connection
with your use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or controversy
occurred or accrued before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, or (iv)
your relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding arbitration between you
and Uber, and not in a court of law. 
This Agreement survives after your relationship with Uber ends.”  Gaddis decl., Exh. G.
In her opposition, she does not
deny the existence of an arbitration agreement between her and the Uber
defendants.
The court finds that existence of
an agreement to arbitrate.
Scope of arbitration agreement
The FAC alleges that on April 23,
2022, defendant Shuyun Yang was acting within his alleged employment and/or
agency relationship with Uber when the accident occurred.
Uber defendants argue that
plaintiff’s claims against them fall “squarely within the scope of the
Arbitration Agreement” as the agreement covers “any dispute, claim or
controversy arising out of or relating to” the terms, plaintiff’s access to
Uber’s services, or incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury.
 
Defendants argue that all of these “terms” required plaintiff to resolve
any claim that she may have against Uber on an individual basis in arbitration.
The court finds that the agreement
covers plaintiff’s claims against Uber defendants.
Applicability of the FAA and CCP
§1281.2(c)
In her opposition, plaintiff argues
that the court should deny the motion to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c)
because there are defendants (LA County MTA, Kenneth Wells, Shuyun Yang) and
the causes of action against them that are not subject to any binding
arbitration.  Plaintiff further argues
that there is a substantial and prejudicial risk of conflicting rulings on
common issues of law and fact if plaintiff is forced to concomitantly litigate
this case in this court and in a parallel arbitration proceeding, including
comparative liability of the parties, the value of Rodriguez’s damages and
whether Yang was an employee acting within the course and scope of her
employment with Uber, or acting in concert with Uber as an agent and/or in a
joint venture with Uber at the time of the subject collision.
The FAA provides that arbitration
agreements in contracts are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except upon
such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.  9 U.S.C. § 2. 
The FAA, when invoked, preempts any state-law rule that contravenes the
FAA’s strong public policy in favor of enforcement of arbitration agreements.  Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles,
LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 388-389. 
“[W]hen an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed
by the FAA, the FAA governs a party’s motion to compel arbitration.”  Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC
(2020) 46 Cal. App. 5th 337, 346. 

The arbitration agreement provides
that the parties “intent . . . to be bound by the provisions of the FAA for all
purposes, including, but not limited to, interpretation, implementation,
enforcement, and administration of this Arbitration Agreement, and that the FAA
and AAA Rules shall preempt all state law to the fullest extent permitted by
law.”  
The court thus finds that the
Arbitration Agreement is governed by the FAA. 
“[L]anguage ‘calling for the application of the FAA “if it would be
applicable,” should not be read to preclude the application of [section]
1281.2(c), because it does not conflict with the applicable provisions of the
FAA and does not undermine or frustrate the FAA’s substantive policy favoring
arbitration.’  This is so . . . because
like other federal procedural rules, the procedural provisions of the FAA are
not binding on state courts ‘provided applicable state procedures does not
defeat the rights granted by Congress.’ 
And section 1281.2(c) does not defeat rights granted by Congress because
it is ‘part of California’s statutory scheme designed to enforce the parties’
arbitration agreements, as the FAA requires.’” 
Williams v. Atria Las Posas (2018) 24 Cal. App. 5th 1048, 1054
(citing to Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.
4th 376, 394) (internal quotations omitted). 
“Nevertheless, our Supreme Court pointed out that parties to an
arbitration agreement can ‘expressly designate’ that FAA procedural rules
rather than state procedural laws shall apply.” 
Id. (citation omitted).  In
Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal. App. 4th 1110,
the parties expressly designated that FAA procedural rules would apply when
they agreed unconditionally that claims would be arbitrated “pursuant to the
FAA.”  Id. at 1122.  The court held that that language to be
“broad and unconditional” because there was “no other contract provision
suggesting the parties intended to incorporate California arbitration
law.”  Id.  
Here, the parties unconditionally
agreed that the FAA procedural rules would apply.  As such, the FAA precludes the applicability
of CCP §1281.2(c).  See also Victrola
89, LLC, supra, at 343 (“thus the [trial] court could not look to Section
1281.2(c) to deny the defendants’ motion to compel arbitration” and the
incorporation of the FAA “eliminat[es] the trial court’s authority under
section 1281.2(c)”).
Defenses to enforcing the
arbitration agreement
“[U]nder both federal and
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.  Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98.  The opposing party has the burden of proving
a ground for denial (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.).  Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.
Defendants note that the
arbitration agreement includes a delegation clause, which states:  “The parties agree that the arbitrator, and
not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have exclusive
authority to resolve any disputes relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability or formation of this Arbitration Agreement,
including any claim that all or any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void
or voidable. . . . If there is a dispute about whether this Arbitration
Agreement can be enforced or applies to a dispute, you and Uber agree that the
arbitrator will decide that issue.”
To be enforceable, the “delegation
clause” itself must be clear and unmistakable, and not revocable under state
contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.  Tiri v. Luck Chances, Inc. (2014) 226
Cal. App. 4th 231, 242.   The court finds that the delegation clause is
clear and unmistakable.
Waiver
“A party seeking to prove waiver of
a right to arbitration must demonstrate ‘(1) knowledge of an existing right to
compel arbitration; (2) acts inconsistent with that existing right; and (3)
prejudice to the party opposing arbitration.’” 
Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal. App. 4th
1193, 1203 (citation omitted).
In the opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendants have unreasonably delayed in seeking arbitration and thus have
waived a right to arbitration.  Plaintiff
contends that defendants had the opportunity to file a motion to compel instead
of filing an answer and that during this time the parties have engaged in
extensive discovery.  Plaintiff also
argues that she will “suffer extreme prejudice” by arbitration.
The court notes that the FAC, which
for the first time named the Uber defendants as defendants, was filed on May
30, 2023 and served on July 1, 2023.  The
motion was filed on August 3, 2023. 
Thus, the court finds that there was no unreasonable delay.  Further, defendants have not acted
inconsistent with the right to arbitration, as they dispute that they engaged
in any discovery, and plaintiff has not shown prejudice.  
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
Moving defendants are ordered to
give notice of the ruling.