 Case Number:  23TRCV00083    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ELISSA
  RILEY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00083




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AVANA
  RANCHO PALOS VERDES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September
26, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Elissa Riley
Responding Party:                  Defendants Greystar California
and Avana Rancho Palos Verdes
(1)  
Motion
for Reconsideration of Order to Set Aside Default Entered Against Greystar
California, Inc.
(2)  
Motion
for Reconsideration of Order to Set Aside Default Entered Against Avana Rancho
Palos Verdes
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers. 
RULING
            The motions for reconsideration are
DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On January 13, 2023, plaintiff
Elissa Riley (self-represented) filed a complaint against Avana Rancho Palos
Verdes and GSIC II Palos Verdes Owner, LP for breach of contract and
nuisance.  The complaint alleges that she
moved into the apartment on August 24, 2022, based on a lease agreement signed
on August 22, 2022.  The noise nuisance
was immediate.  Plaintiff shares a common
wall with a mother and child who are making the noise.  The continuous noise started to interfere
with plaintiff’s sleep and ability to operate plaintiff’s two businesses.  On October 5, 2022, plaintiff contacted the
apartment manager to make known the nuisance problem.  On October 10, 2022, plaintiff emailed
defendant regarding noise problems. 
Defendant failed to disclose the noise nuisance, which it had prior
knowledge of for many years.  At some
point, defendant made known to the neighbor, producing the noise, about
plaintiff’s concerns.  The neighbor
confronted plaintiff.  At first,
communication was cordial.  The neighbor
explained that she raised her son in the apartment for ten years and that since
he was nonverbal, he just made loud noise when he communicated.  The noise nuisance includes playing music,
yelling, jumping on a trampoline on the second floor, and banging on walls and
stumping on the floors.  In addition,
there is a smoking problem that affects plaintiff’s health.  As the problem got worse, things became
confrontational between plaintiff and the neighbor.  The apartment manager offered little or no
resolution.  Plaintiff has suffered
emotional distress and loss of income. 
She withheld rent according to tenant rights but defendant’s letter
campaign notices, demanding plaintiff to pay or quit is constructive eviction.
            On March 27, 2023, plaintiff filed a
FAC.
            On March 28, 2023, the court ruled
that proper notice was not given of the demurrer.
            On April 25, 2023, plaintiff filed a
SAC against Avano Rancho Palos Verdes, GSIC II Palos Verdes Owner, LP, Greystar
California, Inc., and GS Palos Verdes, LLC.
            On April 26, 2023, plaintiff filed a
Third Amended Complaint.
            On May 8, 2023, the court granted
leave to amend nunc pro tunc the SAC filed on April 25, 2023 and TAC filed on
April 26, 2023.  See Minute Order.
            On June 8, 2023, defaults were
entered against Avana Rancho Palos Verdes, Greystar California, Inc., and GS
Palos Verdes, LLC.
On July 28, 2023, the court granted
defendants’ motions to vacate the defaults entered on June 8, 2023 against
them.  
On August 9, 2023, defendant Avana
Rancho Palos Verdes filed an answer to the TAC.
On August 22, 2023, defendant
Greystar California filed an answer to the TAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP §1008(a), “When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.  The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” 
As stated by the court in Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.
App. 4th 1494, CCP §1008 governs reconsideration of court orders whether
initiated by a party or the court itself. 
“It is the exclusive means for modifying, amending or revoking an order.  That limitation is expressly
jurisdictional.”  Id. at 1499.    
CCP §128(a) states, “Every court
shall have the power to do all of the following: . . . (8) To amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. . . .”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests that the court reconsider its order dated July 28, 2023, which vacated
the defaults entered June 8, 2023 against defendants.
            In
its ruling granting defendants’ motions, the court had noted that the requests
for default were deficient to the extent that they referred to the complaint,
rather than the TAC.  The court had also
found that the “amended” proofs of service filed on May 30, 2023 were defective
and that defendants were not properly served.
            Plaintiff
argues that the court erred because the requests for entry of default had been
amended on June 8, 2023 and referred to the last operative complaint.  Plaintiff also asserts that defendant Avana
does not have an agent for service “made known to the public” and that
defendant is not a legal entity or dba.
            In
opposition, defendants argue that plaintiff failed to address any of the
grounds for reconsideration under CCP §1008 or file the requisite
declaration.  Defendants further contend
that the exhibits attached to plaintiff’s motions were reviewed by the court in
consideration of the motions to vacate and opposition.
            The
court notes that plaintiff failed to file a proof of service of the motions but
that there is no prejudice to defendants as they filed substantive oppositions.
            The
court finds that plaintiff has not met her burden of showing new or different facts,
circumstances, or law.
            Accordingly,
the motions are DENIED.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.