 Case Number:  23TRCV00887    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
GUILLERMO
  FLORES, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00887




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
OASIS
  NOI HOLDING, LP, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 26,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Oasis NOI
Holding, LP and 13605 Vermont Apartments, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Guillermo Flores, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 7th cause of action for IIED in the
complaint.  The motion to strike is
GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On March 23, 2023, Guillermo Flores,
Gloria Saran, Genesis Saran, Gloria Saran, and Gerson Flores filed a complaint
against Oasis Holding, LP and 13605 Vermont Apartments, LLC for (1) tortious
breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment,
)3) nuisance (negligence), (4) NIED, (5) negligent maintenance of the premises,
(6) nuisance (intentional tort), and IIED.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendants Oasis NOI Holding, LP
and 13605 Vermont Apartments, LLC demur to the 7th cause of action
for IIED in the complaint on the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action.
The court notes that defendant
13605 Vermont Apartments filed an answer (via a different counsel) to the
complaint on May 16, 2023.  The court
also notes that defendant appears to be represented by different counsel and has
not filed a substitution of attorney.
The complaint alleges that in 2013,
plaintiffs entered into an agreement to rent the subject property from a
previous owner, The Platinum Associates, LLC. 
Complaint, ¶17.  Around December
2017, defendant 13605 Vermont Apartments, LLC acquired the subject property
from a separate, previous owner.  Id., ¶18.  Defendant Oasis NOI Holding acquired the
property from defendant 13605 Vermont Apartments.  Id., ¶19. 
The monthly rent is approximately $1,455.  Id., ¶20. 
Since the ownership and operation of the subject property by defendants,
such property has numerous health and safety violations that include a severe
cockroach infestation, lack of plumbing maintained in good working order, mold
contamination, lack of heating facilities maintained in good working order, and
foundation or structural damage due to deterioration, water damage, and/or
improper maintenance.  Id., ¶21.  During plaintiffs’ tenancy, defendants’
ownership, management, maintenance, and/or operations of the subject property
has been unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, uninhabitable, untenantable, in a state
of disrepair, and in gross violation of building, health, and safety laws.  Defendants have violated and are violating
habitability laws and standards and other applicable laws, codes, regulations,
and ordinances.  Id., ¶22.  Despite plaintiffs’ complaints of the above
conditions, defendants have either responded ineffectively or not responded at
all.  Id., ¶¶23-27.
7th cause of action for
IIED
The tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress is comprised of three elements:  (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff's injuries were actually
and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal. App.
4th 222, 234.  “In order to meet the
first requirement of the tort, the alleged conduct . . . must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  Id. at 234-35. Whether conduct is
sufficiently extreme and outrageous so as to be actionable may be determined as
a matter of law.  Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 488, 494.  To
avoid demurrer, the plaintiff must allege such acts with great
specificity.  Yau v. Santa Margarita
Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 144, 160-61.  “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.”  Newby v. Alto Riviera
Apartments (1976) 60 Cal. App. 3d 288, 297. 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for breach of implied
warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from suing his landlord for
intentional infliction of mental distress if the landlord’s acts are extreme
and outrageous and result in severe mental distress.”  Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.
App. 3d 903, 922.
The complaint incorporates the
prior allegations and alleges that defendants abused their positions as
landlords, owners, and/or property managers, and acted in an outrageous manner
by failing and refusing to abate a dangerous and unhealthy nuisance, maintaining
plaintiffs’ living quarters in an unsafe, unhealthy, uninhabitable, and
untenantable condition, refusing to repair the subject property in the face of
complaints by plaintiffs, and violating health and safety codes, ordinances,
regulations, and other laws.  Complaint,
¶88.  Defendants’ conduct is extreme and
outrageous.  Id., ¶89.  While acting in these outrageous ways,
defendants acted with reckless disregard for the severe emotional consequences
of their acts and omissions.  Id.,
¶90.  Defendants’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiffs’ extreme emotional distress.  Id., ¶91.
Defendants argue that the
allegations are generalized and conclusory and that plaintiffs fail to plead
specific factual allegations sufficient to show that defendants engaged in
“extreme and outrageous” conduct, especially when the allegations concern
numerous consecutive owners and span years. 
Defendants also assert that the allegations are unclear when the
conditions existed, how they manifested, how it is that any of the defendants
knew or should have known of them, when reports were made, and the response to
the reports. 
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that the allegations are sufficient.
            The court finds that the allegations
do not show that defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct or that
such conduct “exceeded all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  The allegations lack
specificity and are conclusory.  They
combine defendants although plaintiffs allege that defendants owned/managed the
property at different times.  Also, for
example, there are no allegations as to when plaintiffs complained and to whom
and as to what conditions.  There are no
allegations of any intentional conduct directed to plaintiffs. 
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the 7th cause of action. 
 
            Motion to Strike
            Defendants
request that the court strike punitive damages at 1:14-15, the footers, paras.
44, 86, and 93, and prayer as to 1st cause of action for tortious
breach of warranty of habitability, 6th cause of action for nuisance
(intentional tort), and 7th cause of action for IIED.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal
issued a peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking
plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking
punitive damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any
factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice”).
A tenant may state a cause of
action in tort against his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the
implied warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v.
David (1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d 101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and
punitive damages for . . . breach of warranty [of habitability]”).  The court in Stoiber found that
plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support exemplary damages when she “alleged
that defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at 920 (citation
omitted). 
            Defendants argue that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
            In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
the allegations are sufficient.
            The court rules as follows:  The motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the 7th cause of action in light of the ruling on the
demurrer.  The motion is also GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the other allegations and causes of action
referencing punitive damages.  The
allegations are conclusory and do not show oppression, fraud, or malice.  Further, as alleged, defendants owned/managed
the property at different times and there are no allegations specific to each
defendant.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 