  Case Number:  21TRCV00788    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ARMANDO
  SANTIAGO,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21TRCV00788




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
COMMAND
  SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 26,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Brandon J. Sweeney
for defendants
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
On October 25, 2021, plaintiff
Armando Santiago filed a complaint against Command Security Systems, Inc.,
Arjun Singh Gill, Balbir Singh Gill, and Gautam Kumar for Labor Code
violations, violation of Bus. and Prof. Code, and PAGA.  Plaintiff alleges that he worked for
defendants from June 10, 2010 through March 31, 2021, as a Trailer Guard and
sometimes as an Armed Guard.
            On November 12, 2021, plaintiff
filed amendments to the complaint designating Deterrence Security System,
Amarjeet Singh Gill, and Parminder K. Gill as Does 1, 2, and 3.
            On March 7, 2023, plaintiff filed
amendments adding Steven Inouye, United Building Company, and David Rivera as
defendants.
            On July 26, 2023, defendants United
Building Company and David Rivera filed a cross-complaint against LA’s Best
Security, Inc, Deterrence Security System, and Arjun Singh Gill.
            The court notes that it has
previously denied without prejudice counsel’s motions to be relieved as counsel
on August 1, 2023 and August 24, 2023 due to defects.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Defendants’ attorney Brandon J.
Sweeney of the Sweeney Law Firm seeks to be relieved as counsel of Command
Security Systems, Balbir Gill, Arjin Gill, Parminder Gill, and Gautam Kumar.
            Counsel states that “[f]actors have
arisen that permits The Sweeney Law Firm and its attorney Brandon J. Sweeney to
seek the Court’s authorization to be relieved as counsel.”  Counsel states that during the course of the
representation, certain occurrences have given rise to the irremediable
breakdown of the attorney/client relationship.
The court finds that the attorney
declaration is deficient.  He is seeking
to be relieved as counsel of a company and four individuals.  Counsel states that he confirmed the client’s
last known address by conversation, but he does not identify the client that he
purportedly spoke to confirm.  Do all the
individuals have the same address?  Did
he speak to each of them to confirm their respective address?  Counsel also does not show proof of service
of the motion on client Balbir Gill. 
Further, he confusingly references Amarjeet Gill at para. 2 in the
declaration and at para. 13 on the proposed order but the notice does not
identify him.  Is counsel seeking to be
relieved as counsel of Amarjeet Gill?  Counsel
also did not serve him.
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 