 Case Number:  23STCV23390    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  82 


 
ANATOLY KRICHEVSKY, et al.,  


 
 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCV23390




vs.
 
 
GENA KOPYTOV, et al.,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH
  ORDER
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Plaintiffs Anatoly
Krichevsky and Igor Finkelshteyn move for a right to attach order against
defendant Gennadiy Kopytov in the amount of $419,323.20.
 
I.       Factual Background
            
            Plaintiffs Anatoly Krichevsky and Igor Finkelshteyn and defendant
Gennadiy Kopytov, also known as Gena Kopytov, are the founding members of
Warner Park Recovery Center, LLC (“WPRC”). (Compl. ¶¶ 7, 23.) Plaintiffs
Krichevsky and Finkelshteyn each have a 25% interest in WPRC. (Compl. ¶¶ 7, 16(b),
17(b).) Defendant Kopytov has a 50% interest and acts as the Manager for WPRC. (Compl.
¶ 18(b).) 
 
            Kopytov allegedly seeks to have
plaintiffs surrender their interests in WPRC for less than full value. (Compl.
¶¶ 31, 44.) On August 15, 2022, Michelman & Robinson (“Michelman Firm”), a
law firm, sent a letter to plaintiffs, wherein it stated that it was retained
by WPRC to investigate and pursue claims against plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶ 32.) The
Michelman Firm demanded that plaintiffs transfer their membership interest to Kopytov
for par value and enter into a no-payment settlement agreement and mutual
release with Kopytov. (Compl. ¶ 33.) 
 
            As alleged by plaintiffs, Kopytov
retained the Michelman Firm without obtaining plaintiffs’ approval. (Compl. ¶¶
32-34.) Plaintiffs maintain that their consent was required under WPRC’s
Operating Agreement before Kopytov could enter into any contract, including the
agreement to retain the Michelman Firm. (Compl. ¶¶ 25, 34.) 
 
            In April 2023, the Michelman Firm
filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23STCV08034, on behalf
of WPRC against Krichevksy, as well as Krichevsky’s ex-wife, Larisa Krichevsky,
in connection with alleged bad faith conduct toward WPRC. (Compl. ¶¶ 9, 36.) In
that action, the Michelman Firm sought a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction with respect to Krichevsky. (Compl. ¶ 37.) The Honorable
James Chalfant ruled that Kopytov and the Michelman Firm lacked authority to
cause WPRC to file suit against Krichevsky. (Compl. ¶ 38.) The Michelman Firm
subsequently dismissed Krichevsky from the lawsuit. (Compl. ¶ 39.) 
 
            Kopytov caused WPRC to spend more
than $180,000 to compensate Michelman. (Compl. ¶ 41.) To reduce the
distributions to plaintiffs, Kopytov caused WPRC to stop depositing checks in a
timely manner and asked patients to pay him directly instead of to WPRC. (Compl.
¶ 42.)
 
            On September 5, 2023, plaintiffs
initiated arbitration against, among others, Kopytov. (Compl. ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs
filed the instant Complaint to obtain provisional relief. (Compl. ¶ 1.) 
 
II.      Applicable Law
 
            “A
party to an arbitration agreement may file in the court in the county in which
an arbitration proceeding is pending . . . an application for a provisional
remedy in connection with an arbitrable controversy, but only upon the ground
that the award to which the applicant may be entitled may be rendered
ineffectual without provisional relief.” 
(CCP § 1281.8(b).)  Such
provisional relief may include a writ of attachment.  (CPP § 1281.8(a)(1).)
 
The CCP provides that a plaintiff may “apply
pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the
action is brought.” (CCP § 484.010.) The application shall be executed under
oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to
secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a
statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that
the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of
the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C.
section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached
under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and
believes that such property is subject to attachment. (CCP § 484.020.)
 
            The
application for a writ of attachment must be supported “by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (CCP § 484.030.) 
 
The Court shall consider the showing made by the
parties, as well as the pleadings and other papers in the record. (CCP §
484.090(a), (d).) The Court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds all
of the following:
 
(1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is
one upon which an attachment may be issued.
 
(2) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.
 
(4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero.
 
(CCP § 484.090(a)(1-4).) 
 
“The Attachment Law statutes are subject to strict
construction….” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.) 
 
III.     Analysis
 
The
asserted basis for attachment is plaintiffs’ claim for breach of contract.  Plaintiffs maintain that Kopytov breached
Section 6.2 of the Operating Agreement by causing WPRC to file a lawsuit
against Krichevsky and paying fees to the Michelman Firm without plaintiffs’
consent. (Compl. ¶ 53; Stone Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. E; Krichevsky Decl. ¶¶ 4-9;
Finkelshteyn Decl. ¶¶ 3-7.) Plaintiffs seek to attach $419,323.20, which is based on $180,036.51 paid to
the Michelman Firm and $239,286.69 in defending against the lawsuit filed by
the Michelman Firm. (Krichevsky Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. C; Stone Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
            At issue here is whether WPRC’s
Operating Agreement allowed Kopytov as manager of WPRC to hire the Michelman
Firm on WPRC’s behalf and, if so, to what extent.
 
            An LLC’s operating agreement governs
(1) relations among the members as members and between the members and the LLC,
(2) the rights and duties of a person in the capacity of a manager, (3) the
activities of the LLC and the conduct of those activities, and (4) the means
and conditions for amending the operating agreement. (Corp. Code §
17701.10(a).) Except as provided in statutes governing mergers and conversions,
the consent of all members of a manager-managed LLC is required for “any other
act outside the ordinary course of the limited liability company’s activities.”
(Corp. Code § 17704.07(c)(4)(B).) 
 
            Under the WPRC Operating Agreement
(“Agreement”), plaintiffs Krichevsky and Finkelshteyn and defendant Kopytov are
Members of WPRC. (Krichevsky Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A at § 1.8.) Section 6.1 of
the Agreement, entitled “AUTHORITY OF MANAGERS,” states in relevant part:
 
Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, the Managers shall have the full and exclusive
right, power and authority to manage the affairs of the Company, to make all
decisions thereto, and to do or cause to be done any and all acts or things
deemed by the Managers to be necessary, appropriate, or desirable to carry out
or further the Business of the Company….
 
(Id.
at § 6.1.) The only Manager at issue in the instant application is Kopytov.
(Krichevsky Decl. ¶ 3; Compl. ¶ 7 [Krichevsky and Finkelshteyn not involved in
day-to-day management of WPRC].)
 
Section
6.2 of the Agreement, entitled “LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF THE MANAGER,” states
that “[t]he following actions shall require the unanimous consent of the
Members” and lists a series of actions thereafter. (Krichevsky Decl. ¶ 3
& Ex. A at § 6.2.) Relevant here, subsection (c) of section 6.2 lists
“incurring a contractual obligation or making capital expenditure” as an action
requiring unanimous Member approval.  (Id.
at § 6.2(c).)  Subsection (g) also lists
“the incurring of any debt or the borrowing of any money not in the ordinary
course of business” as such an action as well. (Id. at § 6.2(g).)
 
On
its face, the provisions of the Agreement in sections 6.1 and 6.2 are ambiguous
as to whether Kopytov as Manager had authority to hire the Michelman Firm.  Section 6.1, which empowers the Manager to
act on behalf of WPRC notwithstanding any other provisions of the Agreement,
would appear to have permitted Kopytov to do so.  That is, retaining an attorney to bring suit
on behalf of the company arguably falls well within the Manager’s “full and
exclusive right, power and authority” to do that which is “necessary,
appropriate, or desirable to carry out or further the Business” of WPRC.  (Krichevsky Decl. Ex. A at § 6.2(c).)  But Section 6.2, which requires unanimous
consent to incur a contractual obligation, make a capital expenditure, or incur
any debt not in the ordinary course of business would also seem to limit
Kopytov’s authority to have hired the Michelman Firm, as doing so arguably
falls within each of those enumerated actions requiring unanimous consent.
(Krichevsky Decl. Ex. A at § 6.2(g).)
 
Moreover,
defendant Kopytov presents evidence that arguably demonstrates the parties’
understanding and agreement that certain contracts and obligations, including
the hiring of an attorney, may be permissible actions by the Manager without
unanimous Member consent.  According to
Kopytov, WPRC previously entered into a contractual obligation with Nexus to
provide utilization review and billing services in exchange for 6.5% of WPRC’s
earnings. (Kopytov Decl. ¶ 8.) 
Further, Kopytov avers that WPRC retained and paid an attorney to review
that Nexus contract without unanimous approval of the Members. (Kopytov Decl.
¶ 9.)
 
Thus,
given the ambiguity of the Agreement’s language, as well as evidence of actions
by the Manager evidencing the parties’ understanding and/or agreement that the
Manager may undertake certain contractual obligations without Member consent (notably
including retention of an attorney), the Court cannot find that plaintiffs are
able to establish the probable validity of their breach of contract claim for
purposes of obtaining the requested writ of attachment.  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  (CCP
§ 481.190.)  Here, at this stage of
the proceedings and based on this record, the Court cannot find it likely that
plaintiff will necessarily prevail.
 
Contending
that their victory is all but assured on their breach of contract claim,
plaintiffs point to the June 15, 2023 ruling by Judge Chalfant in Warner
Park Recovery Center, LLC v. Larisa Krichevsky, LASC Case No. 23STCV08034
(“Warner Park”) (Stone Decl. ¶¶ 3 & Ex. F [“Chalfant Ruling”]),
which denied WPRC’s request for preliminary injunction.  In their late-filed Reply,[1] plaintiffs
also rely on Judge Kalra’s decision in that same case (Supp. Stone Decl. ¶ 3
& Ex. K [“Kalra Ruling”]), which granted Krichevsky’s motion to disqualify
the Michelman Firm from representing WPRC in that matter.  To begin with, “a written trial court ruling
has no precedential value,” and thus neither the Chalfant Ruling nor the Kalra
Ruling are binding in this case. (Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v.
Belshe (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.) 
 
As
for the persuasive value of my colleague’s prior decisions, the existence of
these rulings, as well as their stated reasons therein, further counsels in
favor of this Court’s finding that plaintiffs cannot show a likelihood of
obtaining a judgment in their favor.  In
the Chalfant Ruling, Judge Chalfant read sections 6.1 and 6.2 of the Agreement
to mean that certain “major decisions require the unanimous approval of all
members.”  (Stone Decl. Ex. F at
11.)  Among those major decisions is
“[t]he decision to retain counsel and sue a member” of the LLC, which “falls
within Section 6.2” and “thus requires unanimous agreement from [WPRC] members,
notwithstanding the manager’s business powers under Section 6.1.”  (Stone Decl. Ex. F at 11.)  By contrast, according to the Chalfant
Ruling, Kopytov, as [WPRC]’s manager, would have the general authority to file
suit against an employee or third part[y] unless such a lawsuit is not part of
the ordinary course of business under Section 6.2.”  (Stone Decl. Ex. F at 11.)  Thus, if adopting the reasoning in the Chalfant
Ruling, one might conclude Kopytov breached the Agreement when hiring the
Michelman Firm to sue Anatoly Krichevsky in the Warner Park action but
complied with the Agreement when hiring the firm to sue Larissa Krichevsky in
that same action.
 
By
contrast, the Kalra Ruling disqualified the Michelman Firm from representing
WPRC in the Warner Park action altogether by finding the “contention
that Section 6.1 gave Kopytov the authority to hire Michelman . . . misplaced.”
(Supp. Stone Decl. Ex. K.)[2]  In analyzing the Agreement, Judge Kalra notes
Section 2 “specifically limits” the Manager’s power by requiring unanimous
consent of the Members to “enter into contracts, make capital expenditures, or
incur debts that are not in the ordinary course of business.” (Supp. Stone
Decl. Ex. K.)  Judge Kalra then concludes
that “[r]etaining counsel to sue one of its members falls within Section 6.2 of
the Operating Agreement and requires unanimous agreement . . .” (Supp. Stone
Decl. Ex. K.) Based on a letter from the Michelman Firm indicating it was
retained to bring suit against WPRC’s minority members, Judge Kalra found good
cause to disqualify the Michelman Firm from the case. (Supp. Stone Decl. Ex.
K.)  The logical import of disqualifying
the Michelman Firm from the entire case is that the Michelman Firm could also
not be retained by WPRC to pursue claims against Larissa Krichevksy—a
conclusion that would seemingly conflict with Judge Chalfant’s finding that the
Agreement gives WPRC’s manager “general authority to file suit against an
employee or third part[y] unless such a lawsuit is not part of the ordinary
course of business.”[3]  (Cf. Stone Decl. Ex. F at 11.)
 
In
sum, as noted above, it is far from clear from the plain language of the
Agreement whether hiring the Michelman Firm constituted a breach.  Further, evidence of Kopytov hiring an
attorney in the past without unanimous member consent makes the purported
breach alleged by plaintiffs even less clear. 
Even further, the existence of two judicial rulings that are arguably
inconsistent with one another and that do not completely support plaintiff’s
interpretation of the Agreement (that hiring the Michelman Firm for any purpose
violated the Agreement) muddies the water further.  From all of this, the only thing that is
actually clear to this Court is that plaintiffs cannot establish for purposes
of obtaining an order for writ of attachment that they will likely procure a
judgment in their favor.  Perhaps they
ultimately will, but plaintiffs have not proven with the instant application
that it is the likely outcome at this time.
 
Lastly,
the Court notes that arguably the Chalfant Ruling and Kalra Ruling could be
read harmoniously for the proposition that the Agreement permitted Kopytov to
hire Michelson to bring the Warner Park suit against Larissa Krichevsky
and others but that having the firm sue Anatoly Krichevsky was a breach.  Even if the Court were to agree with that
more limited theory of liability for breach, the Court would nonetheless deny
the instant application, because “an attachment may be issued only where the
total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable
amount.”  (CCP § 483.010(a), emphasis
added.) Here, the Warner Park lawsuit initiated by the Michelman Firm in
WPRC’s name was filed against Krichevsky, Larisa Krichevsky, and Launch to
Wellness Psychotherapy, Inc. (Stone Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. E.) Only Krichevsky has
been dismissed from the lawsuit. (Stone Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. G.) To the extent
that WPRC paid fees to the Michelman Firm to pursue claims against Larisa
Krichevsky and Launch to Wellness Psychotherapy, Inc., such fees would not be
breach of contract damages subject to attachment.  Plaintiffs make no effort to apportion the
fees paid to the Michelman Firm in prosecuting its claims against Larisa
Krichevsky and Launch to Wellness Psychotherapy, Inc. (Krichevsky Decl. ¶ 8
& Ex. C.) As a result, the amount subject to attachment is not fixed or
readily ascertainable.
 
IV.     Conclusion
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the application is DENIED. 


