Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22NWCV01645
Plaintiff's Name: Emilia Herrera and Ramon Herrara
Defendant's Name: Ford Motor Company
People-Names: Emilia Herrera, Ramon Herrara
Company-Names: Ford Motor Company
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: December 19, 2022, January 10, 2024
Events: Complaint filed, Motion for Protective Order
Money: None
Intentions: The Court grants the Defendant's Motion for Protective Order with limitations.
Facts: The parties have met and conferred regarding entering into a protective order and have agreed upon using the Los Angeles Superior Court Model Order (LASC Order) as the template for the protective order.
Disputes: Defendant seeks to make changes to the LASC Order, and Plaintiff argues that some of the proposed changes are too narrow or would prejudice Plaintiffs.
Acts: The Court grants the Defendant's request to define affiliated attorneys as attorneys of the same firm, denies the request to require all personnel at Plaintiffs' counsel's office to sign the Proposed Order, denies the request to remove subsection (g) which allows disclosure to mock jurors, and denies the request to modify Paragraph 21 to require return or destruction of confidential documents.
Agreements: The parties have agreed upon using the LASC Order as the template for the protective order.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 2031.060(a) and (b)(5)
Statutes: CCP ยง 2016.040
Roles: Judge C, Emilia Herrera, Ramon Herrara, Ford Motor Company
Significant Statements: The Court finds that the Proposed Order should not be read as prohibiting outside counsel from being able to review the confidential material, however, that outside counsel must first sign the Proposed Order prior to being given access.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The Court has issued a tentative ruling on the Defendant's Motion for Protective Order. The Court grants the motion with the following limitations: the Defendant's request to define affiliated attorneys as attorneys of the same firm is granted, subject to the limitation that outside counsel must first sign the Proposed Order prior to being given access. The Court denies the request to require all personnel at Plaintiffs' counsel's office to sign the Proposed Order, citing undue burden. The Court also denies the request to remove subsection (g) which allows disclosure to mock jurors, finding that Plaintiffs have a greater interest in being allowed access to preparing for trial. Finally, the Court denies the request to modify Paragraph 21 to require return or destruction of confidential documents, finding that Plaintiffs' counsel has an interest in maintaining a complete file for its cases.