 Case Number:  23NWCV00343    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  C pacheco v.
volkswagen
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00343
HEARING:   1/10/24 @ 10:30 AM
#7
 
Plaintiff Alejandra Pacheco’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses is GRANTED in part and DENEID in part as set forth
below.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Background
On
February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandra Pacheco (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Volkswagen Group of America (“Defendant”) for alleged
violations of the Song-Beverly Act for failure to repair or repurchase
Plaintiff’s vehicle. The parties met and conferred and filed a joint statement
of remaining issues after stipulating to continuing the matter from December
13, 2023 to January 10, 2024.
Legal
Standard
CCP § 2031.310
allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to document
requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,
or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to
Requests Nos. 6, 9, 11-12, 18-23, 25, 30, and 33-35. Plaintiff also requests
that Defendant provide a privilege log.
Requests Nos. 18-23 and 25 relate to
Defendant’s lemon law policies and procedures. Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendant to produce documents related to “salesforce KNOWLEDGE,” “salesforce
PROCEDURE,” “Lemon Law Escalation Matrix,” “Goodwill Guidelines for Review”,
“PROCEDURE: Customer calling to speak with their Customer Resolution and
Retention (CRR) Specialist,” “PROCEDURE: Non-TDI Customer is working with an
attorney,” “PROCEDURE: General CRR Case Handling Guidelines,” “Repurchase or
replacement denial position in writing, ‘outlining specific policies and
procedures for CR&R case escalation and case handling on the VW Resource
Center,’” “calculating a repurchase offer,” lemon law guidelines on flis.org,
and live training materials. Defendant argues that the documents are not
relevant due to Plaintiff not requesting a repurchase/replacement and that
Plaintiff is using the previously discovered material to “fish” for additional
documents. The documents are within the scope of discovery as discovery is
broad and includes information that is admissible or reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc.
v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) The additional responsive
documents themselves may not be admissible at trial, they are reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence because they relate to Defendant’s
lemon law policies and procedures. Therefore, Defendant is ordered to supplement
its responses to Requests Nos. 18-23 and 25 to include production of the above
documents.
Requests Nos. 30 and 33-35 relate to customer
complaints or repairs to similar vehicles. Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant
to produce TREAD complaints of similar vehicles for similar complaints.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not need the complaints or repairs of
other vehicles to prove their case at trial. However, the standard of discovery
is broad and includes information that is admissible or reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Calcor, supra, 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) Plaintiff also seeks to compel Defendant to produce all
repair instructions or other diagnostic/repair procedures identified by the
repairs and “Safety Recalls” on Plaintiff’s vehicle and a summary of
Defendant’s investigation of the root problems of Plaintiff’s vehicle and the
defect in Safety Recall 97GF. Defendant contends that it produced all documents
related to diagnostic/repair procedures identified by the repairs and “Safety
Recalls” on Plaintiff’s vehicle. Thus, the Court cannot compel Defendant to
produce additional documents it contends do not exist. Defendant contends that
investigation into the root problems and the defect in Safety Recall 97GF are
not within the scope of the General Discovery Order. However, such
investigations as they relate to Plaintiff’s vehicle could be evidence of
Defendant’s liability for civil penalties under the Song-Beverly Act. Thus, the
documents are discoverable. Therefore, Defendant is ordered to supplement its
responses to Requests Nos. 30 and 33-35 to include production of the above
documents. 
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to
Requests Nos. 6, 9, 11, and 12 based on the response stating that it does not
possess any documents, or no documents exist, and not naming persons or
entities which may have responsive documents. Defendant agrees to provide a
further response to Request No. 6 identifying Plaintiff as having responsive
documents. Defendant argues that it is not aware of documents responsive to the
other categories.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s
request to compel a further response to Request No. 6 is granted and her
request to compel further responses to Requests Nos. 9, 11, and 12 is denied.
Plaintiff requests that Defendant be ordered to
provide a privilege log for Requests Nos. 3, 4, 8, 9, 11-14, 18, and 32-36
because Defendant’s Song Beverly response department is trained by general
counsel, and pre-litigation policies and procedures are important to prove that
Defendant willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act. However, the Court declines
to require that Defendant provide a privilege log as to the Requests as it
would be a substantial burden and Plaintiff’s instant Motion has been granted
nearly in full.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED in part and DENEID in part as
detailed above.
 
 