 Case Number:  22NWCV00415    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  C AWI Builders v. Rachlin Partners et al. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00415
HEARING:   1/10/24 @ 9:30 AM
#1
 
Defendant Harrison’s Motion for Leave to
Amend Responses to Requests for Admission Nos. 14 and 15 is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant Jennifer Harrison moves to amend her
responses to Plaintiff AWI Builders, Inc.’s (Plaintiff) Requests for Admission.
No Opposition as of January 9, 2024.
Background
This
is a breach of contract lawsuit involving Defendants Rachlin Partners (Rachlin)
and Jennifer Harrison (Harrison) (collectively Defendants) and the Norwalk
School District (the District). Plaintiff contends that it was hired as a
general contractor to construct the school buildings and fields for “Nowalk H.S.
– Athletic Field & Stadium” and Defendants were hired as the architects. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached their contract with the District and caused
harm to Plaintiff, who is a known beneficiary of the contract.
Legal
Standard
“A
party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for
admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties. The court
may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that
the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect,
and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially
prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.” (CCP §
2033.300(a) and (b).)
Discussion

Here, Harrison seeks to amend her response to
two Requests regarding whether Defendants provided repair estimates to the
District. Harrison denied the Requests based on her not recalling having
provided repair estimates and Rachlin not normally providing repair estimates.
(Harrison Decl., ¶ 5.) Harrison identified several documents within the 61,000
pages sent in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, which could be
categorized as repair estimates. (Harrison Decl., ¶ 6.) Thus, Harrison may
amend her response because her initial response was a result of mistake and
Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by the amendment. Therefore, Harrison’s Motion
for Leave to Amend Responses to Requests for Admission Nos. 14 and 15 is
granted.
 
Accordingly, Harrison’s Motion for
Leave to Amend Responses to Requests for Admission Nos. 14 and 15 is GRANTED.
 
 