 Case Number:  23CHCV03908    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  F51  NOVEMBER 6, 2024    DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV03908    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 7/25/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Jose Napoles (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: NOT OK(misstates  the Plaintiff’s name as Adam Mermel)   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to the fifth cause of action in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint  (“FAC”). Defendant also seeks an order striking Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive  damages.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled, and the  motion to strike is denied. Defendant shall file and serve an answer to  Plaintiff’s FAC within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    On 1/28/22, Plaintiff allegedly purchased  a vehicle manufactured by Defendant, and now brings this action under the  Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.), alleging, inter  alia, that Defendant had actual knowledge of a transmission defect in the  vehicle model while concealing such knowledge. (FAC ¶¶ 63–81.) Plaintiff alleges  that he later discovered the transmission defects, but Defendant was unable to repair  the issues or offer to repurchase or replace the vehicle. (Id. at ¶ 14.)   On 12/27/23, Plaintiff filed his original  complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code Section  1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the  Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent Inducement –  Concealment. On 6/20/24, Plaintiff filed his FAC, alleging against Defendant  the same causes of action.   On 7/25/24, Defendant filed and  served the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 10/17/24, Plaintiff filed  his oppositions thereto. On 10/23/24, Defendant filed its replies. // // // DEMURRER   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on  the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here,  Defendant¿demurs to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action on the basis that the FAC  fails¿to allege facts sufficient to¿state¿a cause of action for fraudulent  concealment.   A.     Meet-and-Confer    Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that on an unspecified  date, he met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding  the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike, but the parties  were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Ryan Kay ¶ 3.) Therefore,  counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.      Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment   Plaintiff’s  fifth cause of action alleges Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment against Defendant.  “The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or  suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the  fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by  intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware  of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of  the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a  result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v.  Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   1.       Particularity   Fairness  requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the  court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to  answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The  particularity requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how,  when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   In the FAC,  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had actual knowledge of the transmission  defect through prior consumer complaints, and issued a number service bulletins  acknowledging the subject transmission defect. (FAC ¶¶ 68–71.) Despite this  knowledge, “Defendant GM and its directors, officers, employees, affiliates,  and/or agents nevertheless concealed and failed to disclose the defective  nature of the Vehicle, its 8- speed transmission to Plaintiff prior to and at  the time of sale.” (Id. at ¶ 72.)   Here,  Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to meet the particularity requirement for  pleading a fraud cause of action. Specifically, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff  failed to allege (i) the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly  concealed material facts or made untrue representations about the Colorado,  (ii) their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge  about alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Colorado at the time of purchase, (iv) any  interactions with GM before or during the purchase of the Colorado, or (v) GM’s  intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the specific Colorado at  issue.” (Dem. 8:12–17.)   “Less  specificity should be required of fraud claims when it appears from the nature  of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information  concerning the facts of the controversy; even under the strict rules of common  law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when  the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v.  Community Housing Improvement & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) In Alfaro,  the Court of Appeal found that plaintiffs home purchasers in a housing  development were sufficiently specific in pleading fraud based on the defendant  vendors' alleged nondisclosure of deed restrictions, even though plaintiffs did  not allege that the nondisclosure occurred by a certain means or at a certain  time or place, because the defendants possessed the records of their dealings  with plaintiffs. (Id. at 1385.)    Plaintiff  argues in opposition that the particularity requirement is relaxed when, as  here, a plaintiff brings a cause of action for fraudulent concealment as  opposed to fraud. (Pl.’s Opp. 8:3–4, citing Alfaro, 171 Cal.App.4th at  1384 [“it is not practical to allege facts showing how, when and by what means  something did not happen.”].) Here, as Plaintiff alleges, Defendant has access  to “sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not  limited to pre-production and postproduction testing data; early consumer  complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant GM and its  network of dealers; aggregate warranty data compiled from Defendant GM’s  network of dealers; testing conducted by Defendant GM in response to these  complaints; as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by  Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of dealers, amongst other sources of  internal information.” (FAC ¶ 67.) Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that the particularity requirement  for pleading a fraud cause of action is relaxed at this stage, and Plaintiff has  sufficiently alleged facts to meet the relaxed standard.   2.       Duty to Disclose   “Fraudulent  concealment requires the ‘suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to  disclose it.’” (Huy Fong Foods, Inc. v. Underwood Ranches, LP (2021) 66  Cal.App.5th 1112, 1121, quoting Civ. Code § 1710, subd. 3.)  “Although, typically, a duty to disclose  arises when a defendant owes a fiduciary duty to a plaintiff …, a duty to  disclose may also arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over  material facts not readily available to the plaintiff.” (Jones v.  ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199.)   Here, Defendant  further argues that Plaintiff does not allege any direct dealings with  Defendant, and therefore has not alleged that Defendant had any requisite duty  to disclose. (Dem. 9:3–6.) Defendant argues that no duty to disclose exists  where, as here, a plaintiff brings its claims against a manufacturer from which  it did not directly obtain the product in question. (Id. at 9:24–10:14,  citing Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.)   In Bigler-Engler,  the Court of Appeal found that the defendant manufacturer of a medical device owed  the plaintiff patient no duty to disclose where there was insufficient evidence  that the parties transacted in any way. (7 Cal.App.5th at 314.) Here, as  Defendant argues, “the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff purchased his Colorado  directly from GM,” thus no transactional relationship exists between the  parties. (Dem. 10:9–10.)   Notwithstanding  Defendant’s argument, the Court, as previously discussed, finds that Plaintiff  has sufficiently alleged that Defendant, as the manufacturer, “was in a  superior position from various internal sources to know (or should have known)  the true state of facts about the material defects contained in vehicles  equipped with the 8-speed transmission.” (FAC ¶ 75.) Absent a fiduciary  relationship between the parties, Defendant may nevertheless have a duty to  disclose based on such control over the material facts underlying the action. (Jones,  198 Cal.App.4th at 1199.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  support a finding that Defendant had the requisite duty to disclose, giving  rise to a fraudulent concealment cause of action. Accordingly, Defendant’s  demurrer to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is overruled.   MOTION TO STRIKE   The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.) Here, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer  for punitive damages.   A.     Meet and Confer   “Before filing a motion to strike pursuant  to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by  telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion  to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that  resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc.  § 435.5, subd. (a).)   Here, as previously mentioned, Defendant’s counsel declares that on an unspecified date,  he met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the  issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike, but the parties  were unable to come to a resolution. (Kay Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, counsel  has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a).     B.      Punitive  Damages   Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of  malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code §  3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a  person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard  for the rights or safety of others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v.  Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust  hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud”  is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact  known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or  otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   Punitive damages  must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid  of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz  Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   1.      Song-Beverly  Claims   As a  preliminary matter, the parties dispute whether punitive damages are  recoverable under the Song-Beverly Act. Defendant asserts that “punitive  damages are not available under the Song-Beverly Act,” while Plaintiff argues  that “courts have repeatedly held that the Song-Beverly provides for recovery  of punitive damages in cases of willful breach.” (MTS 2:27; MTS Opp. 4:21–22.)    Defendant  maintains that “Plaintiff cannot demand both a civil penalty under Song-Beverly  and punitive damages.” (MTS 3:10–11, citing Troensegaard v. Silvercrest  Industries, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228.) The Court agrees with  Defendant inasmuch as Plaintiff seeks to recover punitive damages related to  his Song-Beverly claims. However, to the extent that Plaintiff seeks to recover  punitive damages related to his pre-sale fraudulent concealment claims, a  request for such relief is permitted. (Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022)  74 Cal.App.5th 946, 962–973.) In Anderson,  the Court of Appeal distinguished the case from that in Troensegaard,  finding that unlike in Troensegaard, “the punitive damages and statutory  penalties were based on different conduct that took place at different times.  The punitive damages were based on conduct underlying the fraud/CLRA causes of  action and took place before the sale. The civil penalty was based on  defendant's post-sale failure to comply with its Song-Beverly Act obligations  to replace the vehicle or make restitution when reasonable attempts to repair  had failed.” (74 Cal.App.5th at 966.)   The Anderson  Court ultimately found that the trial court’s award of both punitive damages  and civil penalties was proper where “plaintiffs’ fraud/CLRA claims, and the  punitive damages attached to them, were necessarily based on Ford’s conduct  leading up to and at the time of plaintiffs’ purchase of the truck. The theory  of liability was that Ford concealed the known substantial defects of the 6.0  liter Navistar diesel engine from them. Plaintiffs’ resulting harm stemmed from  that deception.” (Id. at 967, 973.)   Here, as in Anderson, Plaintiff’s fraudulent  inducement allegations against Defendant are distinct and separate from his  post-sale Song-Beverly claims against Defendant. (MTS Opp. 3:14–15.) Therefore,  the Court finds that Plaintiff may seek to recover punitive damages stemming  from his fifth cause of action.   2.      Malice,  Fraud, Oppression   Defendant  further argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts with sufficient  particularity as to show Defendant’s “malice, fraud,  or oppression by clear and convincing evidence.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Plaintiff fail[s] to allege what specific representation(s), if any,  were made about the Subject Vehicle and its transmission system, and whether  the person making those representation(s), if any, was an agent of GM.” (MTS 4:23–25.)   As  Plaintiff argues, and as outlined above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has  pled his fraudulent concealment cause of action with sufficient specificity. As  such, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to support his  prayer for punitive damages under the “fraud” prong of Civil Code section 3294.  The issue of Defendant’s intent to defraud is a question of fact that the Court  declines to address at the demurrer stage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205  Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.) Based on the foregoing, the motion to  strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is denied.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled, and the motion to strike is  denied. Defendant shall file and serve an answer to Plaintiff’s FAC within 30  days.