 Case Number:  23TRCV00502    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
CHRIS M.
  OBA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00502




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MARTINEZ
  TRANSPORT LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 31,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Chris M. Oba
Responding
Party:                  Defendant ERC Trade, LP
Motion
to Compel the Depositions of Defendant ERC Trade, LP’s Employees/Agents
 
            The court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On February 22, 2023, plaintiff
Chris M. Oba filed a complaint against Martinez Transport LLC, Leonel Esqueda
Zavala, ERC Trade, LP, HPL-Apollo, LLC, and Willy Valenzuela for negligence
involving a forklift.
On May 22, 2023, the court denied
defendants HPL-Apollo, LLC and Willy Valenzuela’s motion to compel arbitration.
On September 18, 2023, ERC Trade,
LP filed a cross-complaint against Martinez Transport LLC, Leonel Esqueda
Zavala, HPL-Apollo, LLC and Willy Valenzuela for equitable indemnity,
allocation and contribution, and declaratory relief.
On December 16, 2023, the court
denied ERC Trade’s motion contesting good faith settlement determination.  The court granted HPL-Apollo, LLC and Willy
Valenzuela’s application for good faith settlement. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Chris M. Oba requests an order compelling defendant ERC Trade, LP’s “employees/agents”
Giselle Carrasco, Nadia Bojorques, Suzanna Cervantes, and Enrique Carrasco Sr.
to appear and testify at deposition. 
            Plaintiff
asserts that on August 10, 2023, plaintiff noticed the depositions of various
employees/agents of ERC Trade, LP that were mentioned in the deposition of Jose
Carrasco, a part owner of ERC Trade.  On
September 13, 2023, defendant objected to the depositions on the ground that
they were “not ERC Trade’s officers, directors, managing agents, or
employees.”  
            Plaintiff
argues that the persons are employees, agents, directors, and officers of ERC
Trade, LP and that defendant is “attempting to shield their depositions by
saying these individuals work for different companies, though it is clear these
are simply shell companies.”
            As
to the corporate structure of defendant ERC Trade, LP and “related companies,”
plaintiff contends that defendant ERC Trade, LP takes fresh produce into
consignment and sells it to a list of customers and takes a commission out of
the sale.  Plaintiff asserts that ERC
Trade, LP is a limited partnership, owned by ERC Produce, LLC as well as Jose
Carrasco, Giselle Carrasco, and Enrique Carrasco, Sr., and others.  Plaintiff argues that ERC Produce is “just a
shell company” based on the deposition testimony of Jose Carrasco.  The “only member of ERC Produce, LLC is a
Mexican company Agricola Hermanos Carrasco” and that Empaque Rio Colorado is a
sister company that is a family business and a grower that consigns products to
ERC Trade and is owned by nearly the same owners of ERC Produce—Jose Carrasco,
Giselle Carrasco, Enrique Carrasco, Sr., and Nadia Bojorques.  See James Trotter decl., and attachments.
                        Giselle
Carrasco
            Plaintiff
contends that Giselle Carrasco is an employee of ERC Trade because she is the
sister of Jose Carrasco and works out of the ERC Trade, LP office in San Luis,
Arizona, and works in the accounts receivable and accounts payable departments
of ERC Trade, LP.
            In
opposition, defendant contends that there was no deposition notice of Giselle
Carrasco. 
The court
finds that the amended deposition notice attached to attorney Trotter’s
declaration does not include her name and thus she was not served with a
deposition notice.
                        Nadia
Bojorques
Plaintiff
asserts that Nadia Bojorques is an employee of ERC Trade because she works in
the accounting departments of ERC Trade, LP and “she would [be] the individual
who could run a report showing how much moneys ultimately were paid to Martinez
Transport by ERC Trade, LP over the years.” 

In
opposition, defendant argues that Bojorques is not an ERC Trade officer,
director, managing agent, or employee. 
See Jose Enrique Carrasco Encinas decl.
The court
finds that the evidence is insufficient that Bojorques falls under “officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party.”  Defendant’s
objections have merit.
Suzanna
Cervantes
Plaintiff
asserts that Suzanna Cervantes is an “agent of ERC Trade” because she is the
head of the department of logistics and customs at Empaque Rio Colorado and
that she was the main contact with individuals from Martinez Transport, who
identified her as the dispatcher for ERC Trade. 
Plaintiff contends that she “is authorized by ERC Trade to arrange
Martinez Transport to work, has been authorized during the entire term of the
relationship between ERC Trade and Martinez Transport, and authorized the work order
underlying the subject incident.” 
Plaintiff further contends that concerning the garlic that was being
transported, Cervantes contacted Martinez Transport on behalf of ERC Trade to
arrange for the delivery and that Ms. Martinez was asked by ERC Trade to help
when they are looking for freight companies, since she has contacts.  
In
opposition, defendant argues that Cervantes is not an ERC Trade officer,
director, managing agent, or employee. 
See Jose Enrique Carrasco Encinas decl. 
Defendant asserts that it does not dispute that it authorized Cervantes
to contact Martinez Transport on its behalf but that she is not a “managing
agent” of defendant.
The court
finds that the evidence is insufficient that Bojorques falls under “officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party.”  Defendant’s
objections have merit.
            Enrique Carrasco Sr.
Plaintiff
asserts that Carrasco Sr. should be considered an “officer or director” of ERC
Trade because he is one of the owners of ERC Trade, ERC Produce, and Empaque
Rio Colorado and that all three operate under the same trade name, ERC.
In
opposition, defendant argues that Carrasco Sr. is not an ERC Trade officer,
director, managing agent, or employee. 
See Jose Enrique Carrasco Encinas decl. 
Defendant also asserts that based on the evidence submitted by
plaintiff, he has only a .7% ownership interest in ERC Trade and that plaintiff
has not provided any authority to compel a shareholder who does not hold any
positions with the party to appear for deposition.
The court
finds that the evidence is insufficient that Carrasco Sr. falls under “officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party” and whether he is a part owner is of no import under CCP
§2025.450.  Defendant’s objections have
merit.
            The
motion is thus DENIED.
            Sanctions
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. CCP §2025.450(g)(1).
Under CCP §2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP §2023.010, an example of the misuse
of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”
            The
court finds that sanctions are not warranted against either party. 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.
            Defendant
ERC Trade is ordered to give notice of ruling.