 Case Number:  23TRCV01212    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
MARTIN
  HUTTO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01212




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY OF
  TORRANCE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 31,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Torrance
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Martin Hutto
Motion
to Set Aside Preliminary Injunction Due to Mistake, Inadvertence, Surprise or
Excusable Neglect
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The preliminary injunction issued on September
15, 2023 is set aside, the TRO remains in place, and the court sets an OSC
hearing re preliminary injunction for [parties to address].
BACKGROUND
On April 19, 2023, plaintiff Martin
Hutto filed a complaint against City of Torrance and Torrance Police Department
for (1) violation of POBRA, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) Labor Code §1102.5.
On April 25, 2023, the court (Judge
Frank) issued a TRO on April 25, 2023.
On September 15, 2023, the court
issued a preliminary injunction.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Question:  When notice of a hearing incorrectly lists
the time of the hearing (11:00) so that an attorney appearing at the noticed
time will be a couple hours late (8:30), may that “late” party seek to have the
ruling vacated and a new hearing take place?” 
Plaintiff says “NO.”  Is a request to vacate under these
conditions a disguised “reconsideration governed by Code of Civil Procedure § 1008?
“The court may, upon terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .”  CCP §473.
            “[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
            Under CCP §533, “In any action, the
court may on notice modify or dissolve an injunction or temporary restraining
order upon a showing that there has been a material change in the facts upon
which the injunction or temporary restraining order was granted, that the law
upon which the injunction or temporary restraining order was granted has
changed, or that the ends of justice would be served by the modification or
dissolution of the injunction or temporary restraining order.”
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to CCP §473(b), defendants City
of Torrance and Torrance Police Department request that the court set aside the
preliminary injunction issued by the court on September 15, 2023, based on
defense counsel’s failure to appear at the OSC hearing on September 15.
Defendants
argue that the failure to appear was based on attorney mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or neglect, and requests that the court reset the hearing to
allow it to have an opportunity to present oral argument.
            As background, on April 25, 2023,
the court granted a TRO enjoining defendants from subjecting plaintiff to any
punitive action based on Torrance PD Internal Affairs Case PD2022-005 and/or
the March 31, 2023 Letter of Intent to Discipline, and, specifically, not to
terminate plaintiff’s employment pending the May 15, 2023 hearing.  Defendants were ordered to produce by May 8,
2023 documents that plaintiff had requested and “are relevant to the
disciplinary action proposed against Plaintiff.”  The OSC re preliminary injunction was set for
May 16, 2023.
            Defendants filed opposition to the
preliminary injunction for hearing on May 16. 
The hearing was continued to June 23, 2023 as the court was
unavailable.  For the hearing on May 16,
the court reviewed and considered the ex parte application for the TRO as well
as the evidence and points and authorities and documents attached thereto.  The court reviewed and considered the
declarations and ruled on the objections. 
At the hearing, plaintiff’s counsel contended that plaintiff had yet to
receive the metadata on the jail video, which was the subject of the push and
the allegation of excessive force.  The
court indicated that such information is informative as to arguments relative
to the running of the statute of limitations. 
Thus, the hearing was continued to July 28, 2023.  The parties were to meet and confer and the
court disallowed any further filings of points and authorities but allowed
supplemental evidence to be filed on any evidence that defendants did not
produce to plaintiff prior to May 9.
            At the hearing on July 28, 2023, the
court and counsel conferred re verified declarations and responses
required.  The parties were to discuss
timeline for defendants to provide declarations to plaintiff.  The minute order states that the OSC re
preliminary injunction was continued to September 11, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.  
Plaintiff served a notice of ruling
re OSC stating that the hearing was continued to September 11, at 11:00 a.m.
            On September 7, 2023, defense
counsel filed a Notice of Remote Appearance for the OSC hearing on September
11, at 11:00 a.m.
            On September 11, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.,
the matter was called for hearing.  The
court found that there was no appearance by the City of Torrance, acknowledging
that defendants had filed a Notice of Remote Appearance.  The minute order reflects that plaintiff’s
counsel acknowledged receipt of further documents that were not produced to the
court and that it is unclear to the court the extent to which there have been
supplemental verifications of information given.  Plaintiff’s counsel represented that there have
been more than several hundred pages and attestations that certain information
relative to log either never existed or have been mechanically overwritten due
to the passage of time.  The court
indicated that it would sign on the basis of plaintiff’s counsel’s arguments at
the hearing that there was sufficient basis to support the proposed preliminary
injunction and to find that there is a probability of prevailing.  
            On September 15, 2023, the court
issued a preliminary injunction.
            As to the motion, defense counsel Alex
Wong explains in this declaration that at the hearing on July 28, he wrote in
his notes that the hearing was continued to September 11, at 11:00 a.m., and
that consistent with that belief, immediately following the hearing he
documented the continued hearing date and 11:00 a.m. starting time.  He also notes that plaintiff’s counsel served
a notice of ruling also indicating a hearing time of 11:00 a.m.  He states that he first learned about the
“calendaring error” on September 11, at approximately 10:00 a.m. when his
assistant attempted to set up the remote appearance but was unable to do so and
was informed that the hearing had been scheduled for 8:30 a.m. and had taken
place.  He states that he immediately
went to Dept. M and was informed that the matter was calendared for 8:30 a.m.
            Defendants further argue that no
party will be prejudiced in allowing the matter to be fully heard on the merits
and that the City will be irreparably harmed if the City is deprived of the
ability to argue its position, respond to any questions from the court, or
rebut plaintiff’s arguments in court.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the motion is an improper motion for reconsideration, the preliminary
injunction was not granted due to a default, and defendants have not made any
new argument that it would have made. 
Plaintiff contends that the court’s ruling was based on the evidentiary
record before the court and not because defense counsel failed to appear.  Plaintiff further contends that defendants
have not proven harm or prejudice. 
Plaintiff acknowledges that both counsel initially believed that the
matter was set for 11:00 a.m.  Plaintiff
requests attorney’s fees, which the court finds are not warranted.
            In reply, defendants reiterate that
plaintiff’s counsel served notice of the hearing for 11:00 a.m.  Further, defendants argue that they must be
afforded an opportunity to participate in the hearing, at a minimum, so that it
can ascertain the factual and legal basis for the preliminary injunction so that
it may seek to have the injunction modified or dissolved in the future pursuant
to CCP §533.
The Court rejects the suggestion
that this must be viewed as a reconsideration motion and that it must meet the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1008.  That statute presupposes that a
properly noticed hearing has been afforded to the parties.  Where, as here, the hearing itself took place
prior to the hour shown on the notice, there is more than “excusable neglect”
or “mistake” on the part of the missing attorney.  The underlying hearing process was
compromised.
            The court finds that it appears that
at the hearing on July 28, the September 11 hearing was set for 11:00 a.m. but
through inadvertence and/or mistake it was calendared for 8:30 a.m.  The court also notes that plaintiff’s counsel
sent notice of the September 11 hearing for 11:00 a.m.  Further, the minute order reflects that the
court considered plaintiff’s arguments at the hearing.  Thus, in the interests of justice and in the
court’s discretion, the preliminary injunction will be set aside, the TRO
remains in place, and an OSC hearing re preliminary injunction will be reset to
allow for the court to hear and consider oral argument from both parties.
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  
The preliminary injunction issued
on September 15, 2023 is set aside, the TRO remains in place, and the court
sets an OSC hearing re preliminary injunction for [parties to confer with the
Court to select a new date.]
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.