  Case Number:  21TRCV00034    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                Wednesday, January 31, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 7
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Blake
Williams v. City of Torrance, et al.   
21TRCV00034
1.      City of Torrance, et al.’s Motion for Use of Peace
Officer Personnel Records (Pitchess) 
2.      City of Torrance, et al.’s Motion to File Peace
Officer Records Under Seal 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            City of Torrance, et al.’s Motion for
Use of Peace Officer Personnel Records (Pitchess) is granted.
 
             City of Torrance, et al.’s Motion to File
Peace Officer Records Under Seal is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January 15, 2020. The
Second Amended Complaint was filed on September 10, 2021. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff was employed as a police officer with the City of Torrance.
Plaintiff was investigated for an arrest he made. Thereafter, he was improperly
investigated in contravention of his rights under the Public Safety Officers
Procedural Bill of Rights Act. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Violation of the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights
Act, Gov. Code Sections 3303, et seq.; 2. Declaratory Relief; 3. Labor Code
1102.5.
 
Pitchess Motion
 
Pursuant to Pitchess
v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531, a criminal defendant “could ‘compel
discovery’ of certain relevant information in the personnel files of police
officers by making ‘general allegations which establish some cause for
discovery’ of that information and by showing how it would support a defense to
the charge against him.  In 1978, the
California Legislature codified the holding of Pitchess by enacting Penal Code Sections 832.7 and 832.8, as well
as Evidence Code Sections 1043 through 1045. 
. . . To initiate discovery, the defendant must file a motion supported
by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the discovery,’ first by demonstrating
the materiality of the information to the pending litigation, and second by
‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police agency has the records or
information at issue.  This two-part
showing of good cause is a ‘relatively low threshold for discovery.’”  Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35
Cal.4th 1011, 1018-19 (internal citations omitted).  A Pitchess
motion can also be made in a civil action. 
Haggerty v. Superior Court
(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1085. 
 
Thus, peace officer records may be discoverable in
civil actions under the mechanisms provided for in Evidence Code Sections 1043
through 1046.
 
Evid. Code § 1043(b) states: “The motion shall include
all of the following:  
(1) Identification of the proceeding in which
discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure,
the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental
agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time and place at
which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
 (2) A
description of the type of records or information sought.
 (3) Affidavits
showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the
materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation
and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
the records or information from the records.” 

            
            A declaration by counsel, on
information and belief, may be sufficient.  
People v. Oppel (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1146, 1153, n.6.  Generally,
counsel would have to provide specific facts that the officer committed
misconduct. Warrick, 35 Cal.4th at
1026; People v. Hill (2005)
131 Cal.App. 4th 1089, 1098 overruled on other grounds in People v. French (2008) 43 Cal.4th 36,
48, fn. 5.  Here, however, in the context
of this civil action, counsel would have to provide, generally, the facts of
the instant action and why the materials sought would be material to the underlying
litigation.  Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087.
Evidence of habit, custom and practice may be admissible to prove that the
conduct of an officer on a specified occasion conformed with her habit and
custom.  People v. Gill (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 743, 749.  Further, the scope of disclosure is not
necessarily limited to mere witness contact information.  Evid. Code § 1045(a); Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087.
 
            If the court orders an in camera
inspection, the court inspects the records to determine the relevance of the
materials to the instant action. People
v. Gill (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 743, 749. 
The scope of the in camera review is governed by Sections 1045(b) and
(c).
 
Evid. Code Sections 1045(b) and (c) state:
“(b) In determining relevance, the court shall examine
the information in chambers in conformity with Section 915, and shall exclude
from disclosure:
(1) Information consisting of complaints concerning
conduct occurring more than five years before the event or transaction that is
the subject of the litigation in aid of which discovery or disclosure is
sought.
(2) In any criminal proceeding the conclusions of any
officer investigating a complaint filed pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal
Code.
(3) Facts sought to be disclosed that are so remote as
to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit.
(c) In determining relevance where the issue in
litigation concerns the policies or pattern of conduct of the employing agency,
the court shall consider whether the information sought may be obtained from
other records maintained by the employing agency in the regular course of
agency business which would not necessitate the disclosure of individual
personnel records.”


Evid. Code § 1045(a) provides broad discovery rights
of information relating to an incident that directly involves the peace officer
and is the subject of the litigation.  Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087. 
However, Evidence Code § 1045(b)(1) specifically requires the court to
exclude from disclosure information consisting of complaints concerning conduct
occurring more than five years before the event.
 
Defendants “move pursuant to Evidence Code section
1043 for an order permitting the City and Department to use and disclose, the
following documents from the custodian of records for the Department in this
matter[…]” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 8-10). The documents sought to be
used and disclosed are Exhibits 14, 18, 21, 30, and 31 of Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment which are emails that are contained in Plaintiff’s
personnel file dating from July 2019 to June 2020.
 
The Court finds that Defendants have met the
requirements set forth in Evid. Code § 1043(b) to compel disclosure. Defendants
have identified the proceeding, the parties seeking disclosure, the records
sought, the governmental agency with custody and control, and the time and
place where the motion will be heard. 
(Notice of Motion, page 2; Decl., Nicholas M. Grether.)   Plaintiffs have described the types of
records or information sought.  (Id.) 
 
Defendants submitted an affidavit showing good cause
for the discovery or disclosure sought. Defendants’ counsel set forth the
materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation
and stated upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
the records or information from the records. (Decl., Nicolas M. Grether, ¶¶ 5-7.)
Defendants’ counsel has set forth a description of the records sought and made
a sufficient showing of good cause. (Id.) The declaration by Defendants’ counsel,
made on information and belief, is sufficient to establish good cause. People v. Oppel (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1146, 1153, n.6. 
 
Therefore, the court finds that Defendants’ counsel
has provided, generally, the facts of the instant action and why the materials
sought would be material to the underlying litigation. Defendants have established that good cause exists for
disclosure of the emails related to Plaintiff’s personnel file, internal
affairs files, and disciplinary notices because Plaintiff placed the information
at issue by filing this action. 
 
Thus, Defendants’ motion for disclosure of peace
officer personnel records is granted.
 
The Court will conduct an in camera review of the
requested records on _______________________, 2024.
 
Motion to Seal Records
 
“A record must not be filed under seal without a court
order. The court must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely
on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”  Cal Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(a).
 
“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1).  California Rules of Court,
Rule 2.551(b)(4) also provides that the party requesting that a record be filed
under seal must lodge it with the court when the motion or application is made
and, pending the determination of the motion or application, the lodged record
will be conditionally under seal.  
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record;
(3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.”
Cal Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d).
 
Defendants move for an order sealing the following
documents which were filed in connection with Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication: Exhibits B to E;
Exhibits 1, 12 to 33. The motion is supported by a memorandum of points and
authorities and evidence submitted by Defendants. Defendants identify the
following overriding interest that supports sealing and overcomes the public
right of access: the protection from disclosure of peace officers’ personnel
records pursuant to Penal Code § 832.7 et seq. 
 
The Court finds that Defendants made a competent
showing to support a finding that the overriding interest identified by
Defendants overcomes the public right of access to the identified documents and
that the overriding interest supports sealing the documents. Defendants have
adequately shown that there is a probability that the parties’ interests will
be prejudiced if the documents are made public. The Court also finds that the
proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored. Defendants have proposed sealing only
the specific documents noted above in support of the motion for summary
judgment and/or summary adjudication. The Court finds that there are no less
restrictive means to achieve the identified overriding interest.  
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’
Motion to File Peace Officer Personnel Records Under Seal is granted. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 