 Case Number:  22TRCV00865    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
PHILADELPHIA
  INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00865
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Ruling
 




 
KALADAR
  CO., INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 31,
2024
 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Philadelphia
Indemnity Insurance Company
Responding Party:                  Defendants Kaladar Co., Inc.
dba Cal Auto Net and Mehdi Omrani
Motion for A Right to
Attach Order and Issuance of Writ of Attachment
            
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED in the amount
of $93,031.75, and conditioned upon plaintiff’s payment of an undertaking in
the amount of $10,000 as to each defendant and submission of a proposed right
to attach order and order for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing
(Form AT-120).
BACKGROUND
            On September 28, 2022, plaintiff
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company filed a complaint against Kaladar Co.,
Inc. dba Cal Auto Net and Mehdi Omrani for breach of contract. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for
a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for
the order and writ with the court in which the action is sought.”  CCP § 484.010.
The application shall be executed
under oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is
sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be
issued; (2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a
statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that
the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or that
the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy
Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to
be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is
informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.  CCP § 484.020.
“The application [for a writ of
attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on
the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”  CCP § 484.030.
The court shall issue a
right to attach order if the court finds all of the following:
(1)   The claim upon which
the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
(2)   The plaintiff has
established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(3)   The attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.
(4)   The amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
CCP § 484.090.
            “A claim has
‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  CCP § 481.190.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Philadelphia Indemnity
Insurance Company seeks a right to attach order and an order for issuance of
writ of attachment against defendants Kaladar Co., Inc. dba Cal Auto Net and
Mehdi Omrani in the total amount of $93,031.75, which includes $13,856.96 in
attorney’s fees and costs paid to defense counsel, together with interest in
the sum of $11,174.79 from November 2021, and $15,006 (20%) in attorney’s fees
“as required to pay contingency attorney’s fees” to plaintiff’s counsel under
the indemnity agreement, and $3000 in costs.
            The complaint alleges that on May 6,
2013, defendants executed a Motor Vehicle Dealer Bond Application and Indemnity
Agreement in favor of plaintiff.  On
April 25, 2016, plaintiff made, executed, and delivered a dealer surety bond in
the sum of $50,000 to the California Department of Motor Vehicles under Vehicle
Code §11710.  On June 2021 and November
2021, defendants, as indemnitors, were required to hold plaintiff harmless and
indemnify plaintiff against any claim made against the bond but defendants did
not do so.  Multiple claims were filed
against plaintiff by alleged victims under the bond arising from alleged
misconduct by defendants concerning the sale of motor vehicles.  Plaintiff gave defendants notice of each
claim and demanded that defendants furnish facts to support a defense, to
defend or pay the claims and hold plaintiff harmless.  Plaintiff remitted payment in the penal sum
of the bond as follows:  $40,000 to Vonda
Morris on June 4, 2021 and $10,000 to Noe Flores Gutierrez on November 17,
2021.  Plaintiff remitted attorney’s fees
and costs in the sum of $13,856.96 for defense of the bond.  Plaintiff suffered damages for breach of the
agreement in the sum of $63,856.96 with interest plus $14,367.81 in collection
agency fees.
                        Probable
Validity of Claim
            This motion is based on a claim for breach
of a Motor Vehicle Dealer Bond Application and Indemnity Agreement.  To establish a claim for breach of contract,
a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract, and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1367.
            Plaintiff argues that a surety is
entitled to indemnification for all losses, including defense costs and fees,
following the principal’s default.  “If
the surety is compelled to make payment for damages caused by the principal, it
has the right to seek reimbursement from the principal.  The . . . financial responsibility bond . . .
expressly provides for reimbursement by the principal.”  Schmitt v. Insurance Co. of North America
(1991) 230 Cal. App. 3d 245, 256-57 (citations omitted).  Plaintiff submitted a declaration from Robin
Wilcox, Claim Examiner, Surety Division and custodian of records, which states
that plaintiff is an admitted surety insurer and furnishes bonds and
undertakings to parties who have executed an express indemnity agreement.  Among the bonds typically furnished by
plaintiff are license bonds including bonds in the penal sum of $50,000
required by auto dealers under Vehicle Code §11710.  The purpose of said bonds is to protect
victims of misconduct committed by auto dealers.  Robin Wilcox decl., ¶1.  On April 14, 206, defendants executed an
Indemnity Agreement in favor of plaintiff. 
The general indemnity agreement (Complaint, Exh. A) required that
defendants indemnify and hold plaintiff harmless against any claim brought
against plaintiff by an alleged victim of misconduct committed by Kaladar Co.,
Inc. dba Cal Auto Net.  The indemnity
agreement covers all losses incurred by plaintiff.  The agreement authorized plaintiff to decide
whether to pay, compromise, or appeal any claim against a bond.  Para. 6 of the indemnity agreement
states:  “Principal agrees that
Philadelphia have the exclusive right to decide whether to pay, compromise, or
appeal any claim against a Bond.”  Id., ¶2,
Exh. A.  On April 25, 2016, plaintiff
made, executed and delivered a dealer surety bond in the sum of $50,000 to the
DMV.  Id., ¶3.  Thereafter, defendants obtained a DMV license
and commenced doing business as a motor vehicle dealer in Fullerton,
California.  Id., ¶4.  
            Plaintiff also presents evidence
that it received three claims against the bond from consumers who purchased
allegedly defective used vehicles from Kalador. 
The claimants, Vonda Morris, Jorge A. Corcio, and Noe Flores Gutierrez,
filed civil actions against plaintiff. 
In response to providing defendants with notice of the first claim
(Corcio), the attorney for Kaladar responded to plaintiff.  When the second claim came in (Morris),
plaintiff sent email notice to Kaladar’s attorney and also mailed notice to
defendants because plaintiff had no email address for defendants.  In response to that notice, Kaladar’s
attorney responded to plaintiff.  The
Gutierrez claim was the third claim and was received after the Morris claim was
settled and closed.  Id., ¶5.  Kaladar’s attorney asserted to plaintiff that
defendants had defenses to the claims including the contention that the
vehicles were sold “as is” and that the sales agreements were subject to
binding arbitration.  The sale of
vehicles “as is,” however, cannot be asserted to avoid a dealer’s liability to
buyers of used vehicles that have defects which have not been expressly
disclosed.  Also, an arbitration clause
in a motor vehicle contract cannot be asserted by a license bond surety to
compel a consumer to arbitrate his/her claim against plaintiff.  Plaintiff was willing to permit defendants to
assert their alleged defenses as counsel for plaintiff in the Vonda Morris
action.  Id., ¶6.   Plaintiff tendered defense of the Vonda
Morris action to defendants by email on March 2, 2020, demanding that the tender
of defense agreement be signed and returned by March 7, 2020.  Defendants signed and returned the tender of
defense on March 13, 2020.  The tender
acceptance was late and plaintiff had retained its own counsel to defend the
Morris action.  Plaintiff is unaware of
any steps taken by defendants to resolve the Corcio action or the Gutierrez
action.  Id., ¶7.  Plaintiff’s attorney obtained dismissal of
the Corcio action.  Id., ¶8.  Plaintiff’s counsel evaluated and determined
the Vonda Morris claim was valid and recommended to plaintiff to pay $40,000 to
settle the action.  Plaintiff remitted
$40,000 to Morris on June 4, 2021.  Id., ¶9.  The Gutierrez claim substantially exceeded
$10,000.  Plaintiff’s attorney evaluated
and determined the Gutierrez claim was valid and recommended to plaintiff to
pay $10,000.  Plaintiff remitted $10,000
to Gutierrez on November 17, 2021.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff received fee statements and
remitted to plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs in the sum of $13, 856.96 for
defense of the bond in the civil actions. 
Id., ¶11.  Pursuant to the terms
of the indemnity agreement, there is now due and owing the sum of $63,856.96
together with interest in the sum of $11,174.79 from November 2021.  The indemnity agreement provides for recovery
of attorney’s fees.  Plaintiff is
required to pay contingency attorney’s fees to plaintiff’s counsel in the
amount of $15,006 (20%).  Plaintiff
estimates that it will incur costs in the sum of $3000, including bond fees,
reporter fees, and witness fees.  Id., ¶12.  
            In opposition, defendants contend
that plaintiff refused to let defendant retain its own counsel because
defendant was “not timely” responsive to an artificial deadline plaintiff set
for defendant to respond at the very outset of Covid-19 on March 12, 2020.  Defendants also argue that plaintiff
“sabotaged the defense of these underlying claims” in that plaintiff did not
obtain any documents from defendants to help in resolving the underlying
claims, it never sought witness statements from defendants, or attempted to
enforce arbitration of the claims.  See
Brian McMahon decl. and plaintiff’s responses to discovery.  Defendants also request an exemption for
“vehicles and trade materials, tangible assets in defendants’ possession.”
            In reply, plaintiff argues that
defendants ignore the express terms of the indemnity agreement and that
plaintiff had absolute discretion to settle claims.  In any event, plaintiff retained counsel,
conducted discovery, investigated the claims, and counsel recommended settling
the claims based on the absence of a defense and the likelihood the claims
would succeed at trial.  Also, plaintiff
contends, defendants were furnished with the opportunity to defend plaintiff in
the Vonda Morris action but did not do so, and the deadline was based on the
statutory deadline to file a responsive pleading.  Also, plaintiff argues, it was not required
to defend the civil actions or go to trial as a condition for recovering
indemnity.  Plaintiff also points out
that defendants have not provided any evidence that the vehicles were not
defective, and that plaintiff should not have paid the claims.  Plaintiff further contends that no assets of
a corporation are exempt.  
The court finds that plaintiff’s
evidence is sufficient to support all elements of a breach of contract claim
against defendants and establish the probable validity of its breach of lease
agreement claim.
                        Basis
of Attachment
            “[A]n attachment may be issued only
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  CCP § 483.010(a).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
which is secured by any interest in real property arising from agreement . . .
.”  CCP § 483.010(b).
            “If the action is against a
defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be issued only on a claim
which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or
profession.”  CCP § 483.010(c).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
against a defendant who is a natural person if the claim is based on the sale
or lease of property, a license to use property, the furnishing of services, or
the loan of money where the property sold or leased, or licensed for use, the
services furnished, or the money loaned was used by the defendant primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes.” 
Id.
            In their opposition, defendants
argue that plaintiff has not submitted sufficient admissible evidence of a
readily ascertainable amount of damages.
            In reply, plaintiff argues that the
evidence is sufficient to support the amount in damages, which is calculated
based upon settlement payments made in the penal sum of the $50,000 DMV bond
and attorney’s fees paid to defense counsel.
The court finds that plaintiff’s motion
for issuance of a writ of attachment is based on an express contract—i.e., the motor
vehicle dealer bond application, dealer surety bond, and indemnity agreement.  The total amount allegedly due on the
agreement is readily ascertainable and more than $500.  Plaintiff has also demonstrated that the
claim arises out of defendants’ business.
                        Purpose
and Amount of Attachment
            CCP § 484.090 states that the court
shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based
. . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than
zero.”  CCP § 484.090.
            Plaintiff declares that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than recovery on its claim.  Application, ¶ 4.  The amount to be secured is greater than
zero.
                        Subject
Property
            Plaintiff requests attachment
against a natural person.
            CCP § 487.010 provides that where
the defendant is a natural person, all of the following property is subject to
attachment:
(1)              
Interests
in real property except leasehold estates with unexpired terms of less than one
year.
(2)              
Accounts
receivable, chattel paper, and general intangibles arising out of the conduct
by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession, except any such
individual claim with a principal balance of less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150).
(3)              
Equipment.
(4)              
Farm
products.
(5)              
Inventory.
(6)              
Final
money judgments arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade,
business, or profession.
(7)              
Money
on the premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the
defendant and, except for the first one thousand dollars ($1,000), money
located elsewhere than on such premises and deposit accounts, but, if the
defendant has more than one deposit account or has at least one deposit account
and money located elsewhere than on the premises where a trade, business, or
profession is conducted by the defendant, the court, upon application of the
plaintiff, may order that the writ of attachment be levied so that an aggregate
amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) in the form of such money and in such
accounts remains free of levy.
(8)              
Negotiable
documents of title.
(9)              
Instruments.
(10)          
Securities.
(11)          
Minerals
or the like (including oil and gas) to be extracted.
CCP
§ 487.010(c).
            As to individual Mehdi Omrani, plaintiff
seeks attachment of residential dwelling at 5514 Sylvia Avenue, Tarzana, CA
91356, APN 2163-017-019. 
 The request for attachment of this property is
appropriate under CCP §487.010(c).
                        Reduction
of Amount to be Secured
            CCP § 483.015(b) provides the amount
to be secured by the attachment shall be reduced by:
(1)   The amount of any money judgment in
favor of the defendant and against the plaintiff that remains unsatisfied and
is enforceable
(2)   The amount of any indebtedness of
the plaintiff that the defendant has claimed in a cross-complaint filed in the
action if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued
(3)   The amount of any claim of the
defendant asserted as a defense in answer pursuant to Section 431.70 if the
defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued had an action
been brought on the claim when it was not barred by the statute of limitations
(4)   The value of any security interest
in the property of the defendant held by the plaintiff to secure the
defendant’s indebtedness claimed by the plaintiff, together with the amount by
which the value of the security interest has decreased due to the act of the
plaintiff or a prior holder of the security interest
CCP
§ 483.015(b).
            “[T]o sustain reduction in a writ
amount, most courts require that the defendant provide enough evidence about
its counterclaims and/or defenses to prove a prima facie case [for attachment
against Plaintiff].”  Ahart, California
Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments and Debts, ¶ 4:64 (1998 rev.).
            Defendants have not asserted any
reductions pursuant to CCP § 483.015(b) and thus have not shown that the amount
of attachment should be further reduced.
                        Undertaking
            CCP § 489.210 requires the plaintiff
to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of attachment.  Pursuant to CCP § 489.220, the amount of the
undertaking will be $10,000 absent an objection.  The failure to post an undertaking prior to
the issuance of the writ of attachment renders the writ of attachment void ab
initio.  Vershbow v. Reiner
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 879, 883.
            Neither party has addressed nor
argued for a different amount of undertaking.
                        Costs
            CCP § 482.110 provides the court
with discretion to include an estimated amount for costs and allowable
attorney’s fees in the amount to be secured by the attachment.  CCP § 482.110(a).
            Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees in
the amount of $15,000 and costs in the amount of $3000, which is supported and
reasonable.  
Based on the foregoing, the motion
for a right to attach order and issuance of writ of attachment is GRANTED.
 
ORDER

The motion for a right to attach
order and issuance of writ of attachment is GRANTED in the amount of $93,031.75.
            The granting of the motion is
conditioned upon plaintiff posting an undertaking in the amount of $10,000.00 as
to each defendant and submission of a proposed right to attach order and order
for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing (Form AT-120).
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.