  Case Number:  20STCV38950    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV38950




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Olan
  Law Corporation and David Olan




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiff Frank Alonso



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Frank
Alonso (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Olan Law and David Raphael Olan (“Olan,”
collectively, “Defendants”), alleging claims for elder abuse and conversion.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants represented
Plaintiff’s aunt, Dolores Camou (“Camou”), in a personal injury action, Camou v. Toll Brothers Inc., et al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2016, No. BC621015 (“the
BC621015 case”)).  Camou died during the
litigation, and Plaintiff thereafter represented Camou’s interests.  Plaintiff further alleges Defendants failed
to inform Camou of settlement funds Defendants received on Camou’s behalf.  Defendants move for summary judgment o, in
the alternative, summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s operative first amended complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.    
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)   
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Elder Abuse
“[Welfare and Institutions Code s]ection
15610.30, subdivision (a), provides that financial abuse of an elder or
dependent adult occurs where a person takes or assists in taking real or
personal property of such an adult to a wrongful use or with an intent to
defraud, or both.”  (Wood v. Santa
Monica Escrow Co. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)  In the first amended complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that on April 8, 2016, Defendants received a check for $17,841.04 in
partial settlement of the claims Camou asserted in the BC621015 case,
and Defendants did not inform Camou of this settlement (First Amended Complaint,
¶¶ 8, 10); and Plaintiff was not aware of the partial settlement until
Plaintiff, as Camou’s successor-in-interest, reached a settlement in the BC621015
case after Camou’s death  (id., ¶¶
12-13). 
In August 2017, Defendants
contend they informed Plaintiff they settled Camou’s claim for a gross amount
of $40,000; as Defendants had initiated a lawsuit on Camou’s behalf, pursuant
to the agreement between Camou and Defendants, Defendants took 40% of the gross
settlement as fees, or $16,000; and Defendants then deducted $13,330,
purportedly to satisfy an outstanding medical lien, and $270 in costs, leaving
$10,400 for Plaintiff.  (Declaration of
David Olan, Exhibit 2.)  Plaintiff
questioned the amount that was to be disbursed to him and having been informed
of medical liens and the impact they would have on the settlement.  (Id., Exhibit 3.)  Defendants were unaware at that time a
medical payment of $17,841.04, which Defendants had received in April, 2016, had
been omitted from the statement provided to Plaintiff in August 2017.  (Id., ¶ 11.) In September 2018, Plaintiff
communicated with Defendants and insisted the medical lien be removed from the
settlement funds and he was entitled to $23,730. (Id., Exhibit 5.)  After meeting with Plaintiff’s counsel in February
2019, Olan reviewed the case file and discovered discrepancies in the accounting,
related this to Plaintiff’s counsel by identifying the medical payment, and stated
Plaintiff was due $21,797.54.  (Id.,
Exhibit 6.)  Plaintiff refused to accept
what Defendants stated was the correct distribution and filed the instant
action.  (Id., ¶ 17.)  
Olan’s declaration
does not meet Defendants’ burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on his
claim for financial elder abuse.  For
example, Plaintiff contends Defendants wrongfully retained from Camou the
initial $17,841.04 medical payment.  Despite
Defendants’ explanation concerning the accounting mistake, Defendants present no
evidence that actually refutes this claim. 
This creates a genuine issue of material fact that precludes this Court
from granting summary judgment in Defendants’ favor.
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims are
time-barred.  The statute of limitations
on a claim for financial elder abuse is four years.  (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.7.)  However, Defendants argue the one-year
statute of limitations for legal malpractice should apply.  The statute of limitations for legal
malpractice is one year after Plaintiff discovered the facts supporting the
claim for legal malpractice, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or
omission, whichever is earlier.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a).)
In determining which statute of limitations
applies, the Court considers the primary interest upon which a defendant’s
wrongful conduct infringes.  (See Barton
v. New United Motor Mfg., Inc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1207 [“The
statute of limitations to be applied in a particular case is determined by the
nature of the right sued upon or the principal purpose of the action, not by
the form of the action or the relief requested”].)  A professional malpractice action is based on
“a failure to meet a standard of reasonable care which results in the tortious
invasion of a property right.”  (Ventura
County Nat. Bank v. Macker (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1531.)  But Plaintiff does not allege Defendants
breached the standard of reasonable care. 
As such, Plaintiff’s “elder abuse allegations alter[] the gravamen of
what would otherwise have been professional negligence causes of action.”  (Smith v. Ben Bennett, Inc. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 1507, 1525.)  Accordingly,
the pertinent statute of limitations is that which applies to an elder abuse claim.  Thus, Defendants have also failed to meet
their burden of showing the one-year statute of limitations for professional
responsibility applies to Plaintiff’s first cause of action.
            However,
Plaintiff’s first cause of action against Olan is untimely regardless.  Plaintiff did not add Olan to this action
until Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint on May 4, 2023.  Although Plaintiff had included “DOES” as
defendants, Plaintiff did not substitute Olan as a DOE in the action.  Rather, Plaintiff amended the complaint and identified
Olan as a named defendant.  Under these
circumstances, Plaintiff’s addition of Olan to the action did not relate back
to the filing date of the original complaint, as there is no indication Plaintiff
was ignorant of Olan’s identity when Plaintiff filed the original
complaint.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 474 [“when
the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact
in the complaint  . . . and such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when
his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly”].)  Thus, Plaintiff’s first
cause of action against Olan individually fails. 
Second Cause of Action: Conversion
            The
one-year statute of limitations does, however, apply to Plaintiff’s claim for
conversion.  “[Code of Civil Procedure]
section 340.6(a)'s time bar applies to claims whose merits necessarily depend
on proof that an attorney violated a professional obligation while providing
professional services. In this context, a ‘professional obligation’ is an
obligation that an attorney has by virtue of being an attorney, such as
fiduciary obligations, the obligation to perform competently, the obligation to
perform the services contemplated in a legal services contract into which an
attorney has entered, and the obligations embodied in the Rules of Professional
Conduct.”  (Lee v. Hanley (2015)
61 Cal.4th 1225, 1236-1237.)
            In
the cause of action for conversion, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “failed to
timely disclose and tender” settlement money. 
(First Amended Complaint, ¶ 32.)  The
Rules of Professional Conduct govern the obligations of Defendants with respect
to settlement funds.   (See, e.g., Cal. Rules Prof. Conduct, rule
1.15, subd. (d)(1).)  As such, the
statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6 applies to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for conversion.  
Defendants advance
evidence Plaintiff was aware of his claim at least as of March 7, 2019, when
Defendants informed Plaintiff of the additional $17,841.04medical payment.  (Olan Decl., Exhibit 6.)  Plaintiff thus had until March 9, 2020 to assert
his cause of action for conversion. 
Plaintiff did not file his initial complaint in this matter until
October 9, 2020 and did not add the conversion claim until he amended the
complaint on May 4, 2023.  As such,
Plaintiff’s claim for conversion is untimely.
Plaintiff requests
a continuance. If the party opposing a summary judgment submits a declaration
that demonstrates evidence “may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, then be
presented, the court shall deny the motion . . . ,” continue it for a
reasonable period, or “make any other order as may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (h).)  The opposing party's
declaration must include facts to support the argument controverting evidence
may exist and why the information sought is essential to opposing the motion;
the specific reasons why the party cannot present the evidence before the
current deadline to file opposition papers; an estimate of the time necessary
to obtain such evidence; and the specific procedures the opposing party intends
to use to seek the evidence. (Granadino v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 411, 420.)  The grant of
a continuance is “virtually mandated” if the opposing party makes the required
showing. (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34,
internal quotations omitted.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel,
Michael Labrum (“Counsel”), has submitted a declaration in which he  states he served a deposition notice on Olan,
but the deposition has not yet occurred.  Counsel does not state, however, what facts
Counsel hopes to elicit at deposition to show Plaintiff’s claims against Olan
are timely.  As such, Plaintiff fails to
show a continuance is warranted.
Punitive Damages
            Defendants
fail to advance evidence pertinent to the issue of whether punitive damages are
warranted in this case.  As such,
Defendants do not meet their burden to show Plaintiff cannot recover punitive
damages.      
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The motion for
summary judgment as to Olan individually is granted.  The motion for summary adjudication of the
second cause of action for conversion is granted. The motion is otherwise
denied. 
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 