 Case Number:  22STCV02016    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
2, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  April 26, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Scott Harber v. City of Santa Monica
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV02016
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AN AMENDED ANSWER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
City of Santa Monica
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Scott
Harber
 
 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION

 
This is a personal injury case. Plaintiff Scott Harber
(“Plaintiff”) was riding a bicycle when his front tire hit a metal stub
protruding from the roadway. Plaintiff suffered severe injuries, including
facial lacerations and traumatic brain injury. 
 
Plaintiff filed this action on January 18, 2022, against
defendant the City of Santa Monica (“Defendant” or “the City”) alleging causes
of action for premises liability and general negligence. Defendant filed its
answer on February 24, 2022.
 
On March 20, 2022, Defendant filed a notice of association
of counsel Dana A. Fox as co-counsel for Defendant.
 
On September 20, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion
for leave to file an amended answer to raise an additional defense. Defendant
wishes to add Government Code section 831.4’s trail immunity provision as an
affirmative defense.
 
On October 3, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment that heavily relies on the requested amendment. 
 
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s motion for leave to file an
amended answer. Defendant replied. 
 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.            
DISCUSSION
 
a.      
Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324
 
Defendant met the requirements of Rule 3.1324(a) by
attaching a copy of the proposed amended answer, which is serially numbered to
differentiate it from the answer on file. (Mtn, Exh. A.) Defendant¿met the
requirements of Rule 3.1324(b) by submitting a declaration attesting to the
effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Thorburn Decl., ¶¶3-6.)¿ 
 
b.     
Inexcusable
Delay
 
Defendant states that the request for amendment was not made
earlier because the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were only
discovered in September 2023, following the deposition of Plaintiff Harber and
subsequent investigation, which included consulting City employees with
relevant information related to city planning and project completion. (Id.,
¶5.) Further, Defendant’s answer was filed before co-counsel Lewis Brisbois
Bisgaard & Smith LLP (“Lewis Brisbois”) associated in. At the time the
answer was filed, Defendant’s counsel was the Deputy City Attorney’s office. (Id.,
¶6.)
 
Plaintiff argues that granting Defendant leave to assert a
new affirmative defense after discovery would be manifestly unjust because the
case had been litigated for nearly twenty months before Defendant sought leave
to amend. Plaintiff relies on Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d
1150, in which the court held that the trial court did not abuse its discretion
in denying leave to amend the answer where the proposed amendment came several
years after the operative complaint. However, that case represents a much more
extreme scenario than this case. In Hulsey, the defendant moved to amend
over three years after the initial answer and only two days before trial. Here,
Defendant has sought leave to amend over seven months before the trial date. 
 
Defendant provided valid explanations for the delay and Plaintiff
failed to show why the delay is inexcusable.
 
c.      
Prejudice
 
Plaintiff argues that granting Defendant’s motion would be
manifestly unjust to Plaintiff because it would require extensive and expensive
additional discovery. Defendant notes that Plaintiff had several opportunities
to seek a trial continuance, e.g., under Cal. Rule of Court 3.1332 (for
“a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence”) or Code Civ. Proc. Section 437c, subd. (h) (“[t]he
application to continue the motion [for summary judgment] to obtain necessary
discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date
the opposition response to the motion is due”). 
 
In light of the above, the Court grants Defendant’s motion
for leave to amend.
 
IV.            
CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
for leave to file an amended answer is GRANTED. 

 
            Defendant
City of Santa Monica is ordered to file an amended complaint within 5 court days.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   February 2,
2024                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 