 Case Number:  19STCV36594    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



NICOLE
  KOENIGSBERGER, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ANTONIA
  LOFASO CATERING, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV36594
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: (1) MOTION FOR UNDERTAKING


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  2, 2024
 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
October 11, 2019, Plaintiff Nicole Koenigsberger (“Plaintiff”) filed this motor
vehicle negligence action against Defendant Antonia Lofaso Catering
(“Defendant”). 
On
December 28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for order requiring
non-resident Plaintiff to file an undertaking. The motion is unopposed.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Where a plaintiff in an action resides
out of the state, the defendant may, at any time, apply to the court for an
order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of
costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).) The motion shall be made on grounds that the
plaintiff resides out of the state and there is a reasonable possibility that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in her favor. (Code of Civ. Proc., §
1030, subd. (b).) The motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of
the grounds for the motion and setting forth the nature and amount of costs and
attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)¿¿¿
“The purpose of [CCP § 1030] is to
enable a California resident sued by an out-of-state resident to secure costs
in light of the difficulty of enforcing a judgment for costs against a person
who is not within the court’s jurisdiction.” (Alshafie v. Lallande
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 428.) The moving party is not required to show
there is no possibility that an out-of-state plaintiff could win at trial.
Rather, moving party is required to show only that it is reasonably possible
that they would win. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.) For example, presenting a prior arbitration award in
favor of moving party could show a reasonable possibility of prevailing at
trial. (Shannon v. Sims Service Center, Inc. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907,
914.)¿
If the motion is granted, the plaintiff
shall file the undertaking no later than 30 days after service of the court’s
order requiring it, and if plaintiff fails to file the undertaking within the
time allowed, the plaintiff’s action shall be dismissed as to the moving
defendant. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (d).)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Defendant’s motion includes a photograph
indicating that, at most, Plaintiff’s vehicle was minimally damaged as a result
of the alleged accident upon which this action is predicated.  No opposition was filed to the motion and,
thus, no objection was made to the photograph. 
Accordingly, the Court considers it. 
Further, the lack of an opposition leads the Court to infer that the motion
has merit.  (See Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410).  Based on the photograph indicating minimal
damage, in concert with Defendant’s 998 offer for $150,000, the Court concludes
that Defendant is reasonably likely to prevail at trial and be owed attorney’s
fees and costs that exceed any damage award to Plaintiff.  The motion for an undertaking, thus, has
merit.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.  Non-resident Plaintiff is ordered to file an
undertaking in the amount of $30,000 within 30 days of this ruling.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 2nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 