 Case Number:  23STCV18819    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ALEJANDRA QUINTERO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs
 
PERCH
  RESTAURANT; PERSHING SQUARE DOWNTOWN LA; CITRUS HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT; JMF
  PERSHING SQUARE LLC; JMF ENTERPRISES LLC; JMF ENTERPRISES V LLC; and DOES 1
  through 100,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23STCV18819
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  2, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Pershing Hill LLC d/b/a Perch
erroneously sued as Perch Restaurant, JMF Enterprises V LLC, JMF Pershing
Square LLC, and Citrus LLC erroneously sued as Citrus Hospitality Management 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Alejandra Quintero    
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
August 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Perch
Restaurant, Pershing Square Downtown LA; Citrus Hospitality Management; JMF
Pershing Square LLC; JMF Enterprise LLC; JMF Enterprises V LLC; and DOES 1
through 100, for three causes of action: (1) general negligence, (2) premises
liability, and (3) products liability. Plaintiff alleges that she has incurred
injuries at Defendants’ restaurant. 
On
November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging
that Plaintiff incurred injuries after encountering a conduit or piping for an
outdoor patio heater at Defendants’ restaurant. As of its filing, the FAC has been
the operative pleading. 
On
December 20, 2023, Defendants Pershing Hill LLC d/b/a Perch erroneously sued as
Perch Restaurant, JMF Enterprises V LLC, JMF Pershing Square LLC, and Citrus
LLC erroneously sued as Citrus Hospitality Management (“Defendants”) filed the
instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
On
January 22, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Demurrer; and on January 26, 2024,
Defendants replied.  
 
II.         
DEMURRER
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
“[A] demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which
the court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or
conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078 (Fox).) Although courts construe pleadings
liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations plead to
survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
 
Meet and Confer 
          “Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a), par. (4).) 
          The
meet and confer requirement has been met as to the demurrer. 
Defendants’ counsel emailed a meet and
confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on November 9, 2023. The letter details
the deficiencies with Plaintiff’s FAC and indicates Defendants’ intent to
demurrer based on these deficiencies. (12/19/23 Speegle Decl., ¶ 6.)  Subsequently, on December 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel responded in an email, extending Defendants’ deadline to file a demurrer
to December 30, 2023. (12/19/23 Speegle Decl., Ex. “D.”) The parties exchanged
emails, and Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that it was unlikely for Plaintiff to
further amend her FAC. (Dem., at p.3, Speegle Decl., Ex. “D.”)
          Accordingly,
the Court determines that the parties have fulfilled their meet and confer
requirement before filing the instant demurrer.
 

Judicial Notice
          Defendants request the Court take
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Products Liability as
alleged in the FAC filed in this action on November 2, 2023.
          Evidence
Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the court, in its discretion, to take
judicial notice of the records of any court in this state. Upon taking notice
of court records, the court accepts as true only that (1) they were filed and
(2) the assertions therein were made; the court does not take notice of the
truth of their contents. (See Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 369, 374-375; see also Day v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904,
916.)
          The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice to
the extent that aligns with the above rulings. 
 
Third Cause of Action—Products Liability 
          Defendants
contend that the third cause of action in the FAC fails to state the necessary elements
of products liability. Specifically, they argue that Plaintiff does not plead
any facts to establish that Defendants manufactured, distributed, or sold the
patio heater in question. (Dem., at p. 5.) Furthermore, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s third cause of action is uncertain, as it fails to distinguish
among the Defendants.
          A prima facie
case of strict products liability requires the plaintiff to demonstrate that:
(1) the product was placed on the market; (2) there was knowledge that it would
be used without inspection for defect; (3) the product proves to be defective;
and (4) the defect causes injury to a human. (Greenman v. Yuba Power
Products, Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 62, County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
          California’s
strict products liability precedents have recognized “a bright-line legal
distinction,” imposing liability only on those entities responsible for placing
an injury-producing product into the stream of commerce. (Taylor v. Elliott
Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 564, 576 (Taylor).)
          In Peterson
v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185 (Peterson), the plaintiff
was injured when she fell in a hotel bathtub. (Id., at 1189.) The
Supreme Court of California concluded that it would be improper to impose
strict liability on the hotel proprietor for injuries caused by an alleged
defect in hotel premises that the proprietor did not build or market. (Id.,
at p. 1188.) The Court further explained that “although many potentially
defective products are used in hotel or restaurant setting, the mere
circumstance that it was contemplated customers of these businesses would use
the products ... or be benefited by them does not transform the owners of the
business into the equivalent of retailers of the products. [Citation]” (Id.,
at pp. 1199-1200.) (Underlines added.) “The mere foreseeability of injury to
users of a defective product was not sufficient justification for imposing
strict liability outside the stream of commerce.” (O’Neil v. Crane Co.,
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 335, 349.)
          Plaintiff
alleges she was a customer at Defendants’ restaurant. (FAC, at p. 6.) Defendants
allegedly used electric or gas space heaters at their restaurant. (Ibid.)
The contested product is identified as a space heater, which includes its
wiring (gas and/or electric wiring), conduit, and coverings, collectively
considered one product along with its component parts. (FAC, at p. 7.)
          However,
these allegations fail to specify whether Defendants acted as a manufacturer,
distributor, or retailer of the allegedly defective product – the space heater.
Following the “bright-line legal distinction” illustrated in Taylor, the
Court finds that Plaintiff’s FAC does not establish that Defendants fall within
the category of “those entities responsible for placing an injury-producing
product into the stream of commerce.” Therefore, even if one assumes that the
space heater was indeed defective, strict products liability cannot be imposed
on restaurant owners like Defendants in this case.
          Apparently in
an effort to meet the pleading requirements for a products liability case, Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants placed the item in the stream of commerce ...
Defendant manufactured and installed component parts which were incorporated
into the final product and were also defective.” (Reply, at p. 5, FAC, at p.8.)
 The Court “accepts as true all well pleaded
facts and those facts of which the court can take judicial notice but not
deductions, contentions, or conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox, supra,
185 Cal.App.4th at 1078; Moore v. Regents of University of California
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125 (the court is not to assume the truth of contentions,
deductions or conclusions of law).)  Plaintiff’s
allegations regarding Defendants’ manufacture and installation of component
parts of the allegedly defective space heater in question are conclusions of
fact and are thus not considered by the Court. 
iproducts (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as
the third cause of action for products liability.  While the Court finds it highly unlikely that
Plaintiff will be able to allege facts against these restaurant owner
defendants to support a products liability action (see Peterson, supra.)
the Court sustains the demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
III.    MOTION TO
STRIKE
          “Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b), par. (1).) A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
Meet and Confer  
          “Before
filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The meet and
confer requirement has been met as to the motion to strike. Defendants’ counsel
exchanged emails with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding deficiencies in Plaintiff’s
FAC. (12/20/23 Speegle Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) However, the parties could not resolve
the issues raised. (Id., ¶ 11.)  
 
Striking Paragraph 14(a) Punitive Damages and Exemplary
Damages Attachment (pages 11 and 12) of the FAC
          “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil
Code, Section 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud,
or oppression.  Malice is defined as
either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c), par. (1).)  “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  Fraud
under California Civil Code section 3294 subdivision (c) paragraph (3) means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  California Civil Code section 3294
subdivision (c) paragraph (2) defines oppression as “despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.”  Specific facts must be
pled in support of punitive damages.  (Hillard
v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.)  Facts must be pled to show that a defendant
“act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard
of the plaintiff’s rights.”  (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.)  Conduct that is merely negligent will not
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
          An employer
will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of
the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
As to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of a corporation.  (Ibid.)

The FAC alleges that “Defendants had
actual knowledge that … their premises was inadequate and unsafe … due to an
array of customer complaints over the years … Defendant made a decision
to hide the danger of the device and premises, and risk that human bodies
would suffer injuries.” (FAC, at p. 13, Attachment EX-2.) (Underlines added.)  It has further similar factual allegations in
an effort to support punitive damages.  These
facts, however, are not specific enough to support a claim for punitive
damages.  The allegations do not include
the “who, what, where, when” required for specific pleading. See Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996), 12 Cal. 4th 631, 645.  
Accordingly, the Court hereby grants
Defendants’ motion to strike.  However,
because Plaintiff may, through discovery be able to ascertain specific facts to
support its punitive damages allegation, the Court denies Defendants’ request
to grant its motion without leave to amend.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants
as to the third cause of action in the First Amended Complaint WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
strike WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 2nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 