  Case Number:  21STCV12415    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Terada v. Lumenta  21STCV12415  Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial Tentative The motion is denied. Background  On April 1, 2021, Plaintiff Monica Terada (“Plaintiff”)  filed a complaint against Olvi Lumenta and Does 1 through 50 arising out of a motor  vehicle accident on May 28, 2019, on Barrington Avenue in Los Angeles. On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff amended the  complaint to name Estate of Olvi Lumenta (“Estate”) as Doe 1. On June 22, 2023, Estate filed an answer. On September 13, 2024, Infinity Insurance  Company (“Infinity”) filed an answer in intervention. Trial was previously set for October 29,  2024. On September 16, 2024, the Court granted  Estate’s motion to compel and ordered Plaintiff to appear for deposition and  produce requested documents on October 30, 2024. On September 20, 2024. Infinity filed this motion  to continue trial to February 28, 2025. No opposition has been filed. In the interim, Infinity filed an ex parte  application to continue trial to February 10, 2025.  On October 1, 2024, the Court granted the  application in part, set a new trial date of December 5, 2024, and reset all  discovery deadlines based on the new trial date. Legal  Standard Code of Civil  Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the  power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to  law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should be granted  is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams  (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the  matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.”  (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   “To ensure the  prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm.  All parties and their counsel must regard the  date set for trial as certain.”  (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) “Although  continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be  considered on its own merits.”  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The  court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause  requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)   Circumstances that may support a finding  of good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an  essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial  counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial  counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution  is required in the interests of justice;    (5) The addition of a new party if:  (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and  prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable  opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new  party's involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to  obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite  diligent efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated  change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1332(c).)   “In ruling on a  motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all the facts  and circumstances that are relevant to the determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)  sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider:   “(1) The proximity of the trial  date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative  means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or  witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a  preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need  for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the  impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged  in another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have  stipulated to a continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice  are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance  relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  Discussion Infinity (represented by the same  counsel as Estate) moves to continue trial to February 28, 2025, and requests  that all deadlines be reset based upon the new trial date. Infinity argues  good cause exists because it has not yet obtained Plaintiff’s deposition  testimony and thus has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery  and prepare for trial.  (Ahdoot Decl., ¶¶  5, 7, 10, 12.) The Court has already granted Estate’s motion to  compel the deposition of Plaintiff, and Estate (represented by the same counsel  as Infinity) has already had more than one year to conduct discovery and bring  any appropriate motions to the Court.   Given the clear alignment of interests as between Estate and Infinity,  the Court does not find that any good cause has been shown on this record for a  further continuance.  Of course, if  Plaintiff violates the order to appear for deposition, or if other events arise  in the future that are not included in the record before the Court, Infinity  and/or Estate may bring any appropriate motion to seek relief, including  requesting a further continuance of trial. The motion is denied. Conclusion The Court DENIES the motion  to continue trial further. Moving party to give notice.