 Case Number:  22STCV31002    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Aranda v. Starpoint Property Management 
22STCV31002
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Request for Production (Set
Two)
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.
Background
On September 22, 2022, Juan Fernando Sanchez Aranda (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Starpoint Property Management, LLC (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability arising out of an incident in which, Plaintiff alleges, he was
injured on December 20 or December 30, 2021, by an explosion of his apartment’s
furnace.
Defendant filed an answer on February 3, 2023.  
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a combined motion to
compel Defendant to serve further responses to Plaintiff’s request for
production and to produce the subject furnace for inspection.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
Defendant filed an opposition on October 2.  On October 8, Plaintiff filed a reply.
An Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) was conducted on August
27, 2024.  The dispute was not resolved.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
As a threshold matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff seeks
both (1) a further response to Request for Production No. 53 (seeking
production of the furnace at issue) and (2) an order compelling Defendant to
produce the furnace for inspection.
Beginning with the second
request for relief, the Civil Discovery Act provides for three separate types of
motions relating to inspection demands: (1) a motion to compel a code compliant
initial written response (when no response has been provided) (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300); (2) a motion to compel a further response (when a response has
been provided but it is not code compliant or contains unmeritorious
objections) (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310); and (3) a motion to compel compliance
with a response stating that the inspection will be allowed (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.320).
No
matter how critical the evidence may be, a party cannot skip over the steps
established by the Civil Discovery Act. 
A motion to compel the production of an item for inspection can be
granted only under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320, after a party has
stated in a verified response that the inspection will be allowed.  Defendant has not at this time made such a
response.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request for an order compelling Defendant to product the furnace for inspection
is denied without prejudice as premature.
Turning
to Plaintiff’s request for a further response, Plaintiff served the request for
production at issue on June 26, 2024.  (Doucette
Decl., Exh. D.)  Defendant served an
unverified response on July 31, 2024.  (Id.,
Exh. E.)  
In
its opposition – filed more than two months later – Defendant concedes that no
verification was provided, stating that it “appears to be an oversight” (Nervez
Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defendant “anticipates”
that a verified response will be served “shortly.”  (Opp. at p. 3.)  
For
this reason alone, the motion is granted. 
Responses must be verified.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.250, subd. (a).) 
An unverified response is not code compliant.  
The
request for sanctions is granted in part. 
The motion to compel is granted in part, and serving unverified
responses – responses that remain unverified even more than two months later –
is not substantially justified, and the imposition of sanctions would not be
unjust.  
The
Court sets sanctions in the amount of $700, based on two hours of attorney work
multiplied by a reasonable billing rate of $350 per hour for work on a
discovery motion of this nature.  (See
Doucette Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.) 
To
provide guidance to the parties, the Court makes two additional observations.
First,
Defendant’s response is unverified, and therefore not code compliant.  But if it were verified, it would appear to
be code compliant.  Defendant states it
is unable to comply; that it conducted a diligent search and reasonable inquiry;
that Defendant transferred the furnace to Trinity Air Conditioning &
Heating, Inc. (at an address and telephone number included in the response),
such that it is no longer within Defendant’s possession, custody or control.  That complies with the requirements of Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. 
Either party may proceed to subpoena Trinity Air Conditioning & Heating
to determine whether the furnace remains in Trinity’s possession and, if so, to
demand an inspection.
Second,
much of Plaintiff’s briefing relates to the question of spoliation.  Spoliation, when it occurs, “is a
grave affront to the cause of justice” and constitutes a misuse of the discovery
process.  (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
v. Super. Ct. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 4, 12.) 
But a motion seeking sanctions for spoliation is separate and distinct
from a motion to compel further responses. 
Plaintiff has filed the latter.  If
he seeks spoliation sanctions, he must file a separate and different motion for
that relief.  To the extent that
Plaintiff seeks spoliation sanctions in this motion, the request is denied
without prejudice.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiff’s motion.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to serve a written, verified, code
compliant response to Plaintiff’s Request for Production No. 53, without
objection, within 10 days of notice. 
The Court ORDERS Defendant to pay monetary sanctions under the
Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $700 to Plaintiff (through Plaintiff’s
counsel) within 30 days of notice.
The Court DENIES the remainder of the motion.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.