  Case Number:  23SMCV04140    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ROBERT BRILLIANT AS TRUSTEE OF THE BRILLIANT FAMILY TRUST DATED JULY 1, 1988, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  MULHOLLAND ESTATE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04140     Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024   ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS TED S. KAPLAN AND    MICHELE C. KAPLAN’S  DEMURRER TO    COMPLAINT  BACKGROUND The action arises from a dispute between neighbors.  Plaintiffs Robert and Barbara Brilliant own the real property located at 14131 Beresford Road (the “Brilliant Property”).  Defendants Ted and Michele Kaplan (“Moving Defendants”) own the real property located at 14151 Beresford Road (the “Kaplan Property”).   Plaintiffs allege that certain palm trees on the Kaplan Property block their view and violate the Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association, Inc.’s (“HOA”) Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (“Declaration” or “CC&R’s”) and Architectural Standards & Design Guidelines (“Design Guidelines”). The operative complaint alleges eight claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) enforcement of equitable servitudes, (3) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) nuisance, (6) negligence, (7) negligent misrepresentation and (8) declaratory relief.  All of the claims are alleged against the Moving Defendants except for the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.   This hearing is on Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint.  Moving Defendants argue that (1) Plaintiffs’ claims fail because a member of an HOA may not bring an action to enforce the HOA’s governing documents directly against another member except as to the Declaration, and Plaintiffs’ claims are rooted on violations of the Design Guidelines which are not part of the Declaration; (2) Plaintiffs’ claims for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing fail because the Design Guidelines are not contracts; (3) the Design Guidelines apply only to new construction and the complained-of-landscaping on the Kaplan Property is not new construction, and (4) well established California law holds that a plaintiff may not maintain a nuisance claim premised on an alleged obstruction to a view. MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of Tyler J. O’Brien, which shows the parties met and conferred only by email.  While this fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 430.41, the Court cannot overrule a demurrer based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).)   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Moving Defendants request judicial notice of (1) the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions for Mulholland Estates, and (2) the Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association, Inc.’s Architectural Standards & Design Guidelines.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(h) and 453.   LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Standing Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs lack standing to enforce the Design Guidelines against another member of the HOA.  The Court disagrees.   The HOA is subject to the Davis Stirling Common Interest Development Act.  The Davis Stirling Act states that “[a] governing document other than the declaration may be enforced by the association against an owner of a separate interest or by an owner of a separate interest against the association.”  (Civ. Code § 5975(b).)  Thus, Plaintiffs lack standing to enforce any governing document other than the Declaration. Plaintiff contends they are seeking to enforce the Declaration, which requires compliance with the Design Guidelines.  They cite Art. XV § 16 which states: “Views shall only be protected to the following extent: (i) improvements constructed on each Lot shall comply with all applicable requirements of the [Design] Guidelines and the Architectural Committee Guidelines, and (ii) trees shall be pruned in accordance with the Architectural Committee Guidelines…”.    Moving Defendants argue, however, that the Declaration expressly provides that the Design Guidelines “are not intended to be Incorporated by reference into, or made a part of, this Declaration[.]”  (Ex. A to RJN Art. XIV § 1(b).)  But this language is in conflict with Art. XV § 16 which does require compliance with all applicable requirements of the Design Guidelines.   This conflict gives rise to an ambiguity in the Declaration.  On a demurrer, the Court must accept the Plaintiffs’ construction of an ambiguous provision, even if it may prove ultimately invalid.  (Schmier v. City of Berkeley (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 549, 558.)   Design Guidelines Moving Defendants next argue that Plaintiffs have not alleged a violation of the Design Guidelines because the Design Guidelines apply only to new improvements, not existing plantings such as Moving Defendants’ palm trees.  While the Court disagrees that the Design Guidelines apply only to new improvements, it agrees that Moving Defendants’ palm trees do not violate the Design Guidelines.   The Design Guidelines require maintenance of improvements on an ongoing and continuous basis without regard to whether the improvement is new or existing.  For example, the Guidelines state that “on-lot maintenance shall be performed on a weekly basis and shall include: trimming and cutting lawns, pruning shrubs and trees that affect viewsheds of others, removal of dead or dying shrubs, removal of all weeds, and cleaning of all drains to protect slopes.”  (Ex. B to RJN § 2.5.3.)  The Guidelines also state “selected interior pruning during young growth and the pruning of heads are techniques to be employed regularly by Owners.”  (Id. §2.5.1.) The Design Guidelines, however, do not require Moving Defendants to remove or top their trees, as Plaintiffs allege in their Complaint.  (Compl. ¶46 (“To date, the owners … have failed and refuse to take any action …. including but not limited to topping and/or removing the Offending Trees located on [the Kaplans’ Property].”)  Plaintiffs rely heavily on Section 2.5.1 of the Design Guidelines, but nothing in that section requires the topping and/or removal of trees to protect Plaintiffs’ viewshed.   Several of the clauses refer to new plantings and not existing ones.  For example, the Design Guidelines state “[t]he addition of tall trees … will be at infrequent intervals and will be arranged so as not to achieve a shape or density approaching that of a barrier.”  As a further example, the Design Guidelines state “[t]aller trees … are encouraged for the Rear Yard and rear slope areas.  The density of planting should be reasonably sparse in order to protect the viewshed of upper lots.”  These clauses are all about new plantings, not existing trees like the Kaplans’ palm trees.        Other clauses refer to pruning and to shrubs, not removal and topping of trees.  For example, the Design Guidelines state that “[w]hen growth obstructs the viewshed of a neighboring lot to the south, these shrubs can be naturally topped.”  This language is not mandatory, and in any event, it applies to the topping of shrubs, not trees.  As another example, the Design Guidelines state “selected interior pruning during young growth and the pruning of heads are techniques to be employed regularly by Owners.”  The Design Guidelines also require “on-lot maintenance [to] be performed on a weekly basis, [which] shall include … [p]runing shrubs and trees that affect viewsheds of others.”  These clauses require pruning of trees (which Moving Defendants already do (Compl. ¶47)), not topping or removing them.  Indeed, the Design Guidelines prohibit Moving Defendants from removing trees, stating that “[a]ny removal of trees, other than in an emergency, shall be subject to approval of the Architectural Design Review Committee.”  (Ex. B to RJN at § 1.7.3.)   In sum, Plaintiffs’ allegations do not support a claim that Moving Defendants violated the Design Guidelines.  The Court, therefore, sustains the demurrer.  The Court also sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.  While leave to amend should be liberally granted, Plaintiffs have the burden to show that an amendment could fix the defects in their Complaint.  (Blank, 39 Cal.3d at 318.)  Moving Defendants’ trees simply do not violate the Governing Documents, and Plaintiffs cannot amend their Complaint to allege that they do.  Given this ruling, the Court declines to consider Moving Defendants’ claim-specific arguments.           CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the Moving Defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend.   DATED:  April 19, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 


 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
ROBERT BRILLIANT AS TRUSTEE OF THE
  BRILLIANT FAMILY TRUST DATED JULY 1, 1988, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
MULHOLLAND ESTATE HOMEOWNERS
  ASSOCIATION, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV04140
 
  Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024
  order
  RE:
  Defendant TYSON BEEM, AS 
  TRUSTEE OF the MAXIMILLIAN 
  TRUST’S demurrer to 
  complaint



 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises from a dispute between neighbors. 
Plaintiffs Robert and Barbara Brilliant own the real property located at
14131 Beresford Road (the “Brilliant Property”).  Defendant Tyson Beem as Trustee of the
Maximillion Trust dated February 11, 2013 (the “Trust”) owns the real property
located at 14143 Beresford Road, Beverly Hills, California (the “Trust Property”).  
The
properties are governed by the Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association,
Inc.’s (“HOA”) Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions
(“Declaration” or “CC&R’s”) and Architectural Standards & Design
Guidelines (“Design Guidelines”) (collectively, the “Governing Documents”).  Plaintiffs allege that certain trees on the Trust
Property block their views and violate the CC&R’s and Design
Guidelines.  Plaintiffs have also sued
the HOA and other neighbors.  
The
operative complaint alleges eight claims for: (1) breach of contract, (2)
enforcement of equitable servitudes, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) nuisance, (6)
negligence, (7) negligent misrepresentation and (8) declaratory relief.  All of causes of action are alleged against
the Trust except for the fourth claim for breach of fiduciary duty.    
This
hearing is on the Trust’s demurrer to the Complaint.  The Trust argues that (1) each of Plaintiffs’
causes of action fails because no provision in the Governing Documents states
that homeowners have a right to unimpeded views, (2) Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim
fails for the additional reason that under California law, landowners are not
afforded any rights to views, and impeding the view of another landowner cannot
constitute a nuisance, and (3) Plaintiffs’ negligence claim fails for the
additional reason that the duty alleged to be breached is the same as under the
contract claim, and a negligence claim cannot be based on a breach of contract.
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before
the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).) 
Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of William Brody, which shows
the parties met and conferred by phone on October 27, 2023, more than five days
before the demurrer was filed, which satisfies the requirements of Section
430.41.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The Trust requests judicial notice of (1) the
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions for Mulholland Estates,
and (2) the Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association, Inc.’s Architectural
Standards & Design Guidelines.  The
Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(h) and 453.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not
consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not
accepted for the truth of their contents).) 
For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint
are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of
conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
967.)         
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court
shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A
demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint,
liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there
is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
DISCUSSION
            The Trust argues that Plaintiffs fail to cite any
provision in the Governing Documents that gives them a right to a particular
view.  The Court agrees.
            Plaintiffs’ entire complaint is based on allegations that
the Governing Documents provide them a right to force removal of the Trust’s
trees, or limit their height, because they obstruct Plaintiffs’ views.  But there is nothing in the Governing
Documents that gives Plaintiffs a right to a particular view. 
            Plaintiffs concede the Governing Documents do not
“entitle them to a completely unobstructed view.”  They argue that the “basis of their claims is
the unreasonable view obstruction….” 
They also argue that they are entitled to some “meaningful degree of
protection” of their viewshed.  But
nothing in the Governing Documents states that homeowners are entitled to a “meaningful
degree of protection” of their viewshed or that Plaintiffs’ views cannot be
“unreasonably obstructed.”  Indeed, any
such language would be too indefinite to be carried into effect because they
cannot state what would constitute a breach.
Plaintiffs
cite a number of provisions they argue support their position that they are
entitled to a “reasonably” unobstructed views. 
First, they cite Section 1.1 of the Guidelines which merely says
the viewsheds are a concern of the Guidelines. 
This section does not state a particular view is guaranteed.
Second,
Plaintiffs point to Section 1.5.2 of the Design Guidelines.  That section states that certain lots, lots 3
through 11 “will be subject to special controls on height and bulk and rear
yard structures.”  It does not specify
what the controls will be, and therefore, does not mandate any obligations on
the Trust.   
Third,
Plaintiffs cite Section 2.5.1 of the Guidelines.  That section is part of what the Guidelines
describe as a “planting philosophy” to be used in the development of
landscaping plants being submitted for approval.  It notes that tall trees can be planted but
should be done at “infrequent intervals” and “arranged” in a certain
manner.  It sets forth guidelines of what
should be approved for planting and installation—they do not give rights to
homeowners whenever a view is obstructed. 
They certainly do not state that “views cannot be unreasonably
obstructed,” or that trees cannot exceed a height that in any way impedes
another homeowner’s view.  In any event,
the provision relates to new plantings.  The
Trust’s landscaping has been in place for over 20 years.  (Compl. ¶ 27.)  
            Section 2.5.1 also states that “shrubs can be naturally
topped.”  The language is not mandatory (i.e.,
it says “can” and not “must”), and in any event, the Complaint is about the
Trust’s trees, not shrubs.  (Id. ¶¶ 27, 28)  Section 2.5.1 also requires “selected
interior pruning during young growth and the pruning of heads are techniques to
be employed regularly by Owners.”  This clause
does not require removal or topping of trees (i.e., cutting off the tops of
trees) if they reach a certain height.  
            Fifth, Plaintiffs cite to Section 2.5.3 which
states “on-lot maintenance shall be performed on a weekly basis and shall
include: trimming and cutting lawns, pruning shrubs and trees that affect
viewsheds of others, removal of dead or dying shrubs, removal of all weeds, and
cleaning of all drains to protect slopes.” 
This section relates to the pruning of trees, not their removal or
topping, and in any event, Plaintiffs allege the Trust does trim its palm
trees.  (Compl. ¶39.)    
            In sum, none of the provisions Plaintiffs rely on say
Plaintiffs are entitled to a “meaningful degree of protection” of their
viewshed or that Plaintiffs’ views cannot be “unreasonably obstructed.”  When the Guidelines seek to specify a
particular obligation, they do just that in clear language.  For instance, they contain specific
limitations on building height, list specific species of trees that cannot be
planted and identify specific structures that can or cannot be built in certain
locations.  (Ex. 2 to RJN at 2.2, 2.6.2,
2.6.4.)  These restrictions clearly show
the Design Committee knew how to impose limitations, and they chose not to require
that trees must be topped or removed if they reach a height that comes into
view of another homeowner.  
Accordingly,
the Court sustains the Trust’s demurrer. 
Also, the Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.  While leave to amend should be liberally
granted, Plaintiffs have the burden to show that an amendment could fix the
defects in their Complaint.  (Blank,
39 Cal.3d at 318.)  The Governing
Documents do not provide Plaintiffs with a right to a view, and Plaintiffs cannot
amend their Complaint to allege that they do.   Given this ruling, the Court declines to
consider other arguments raised in the demurrer.  
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS
the Trust’s demurrer without leave to amend. 

DATED: 
April 19, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court
   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ROBERT BRILLIANT AS TRUSTEE OF THE BRILLIANT FAMILY TRUST DATED JULY 1, 1988, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  MULHOLLAND ESTATE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04140     Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024   ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT FAITH MEDIA    DISTRIBUTION INC.’S DEMURRER TO    AND MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND The action arises from a dispute between neighbors.  Plaintiffs Robert and Barbara Brilliant own the real property located at 14131 Beresford Road (the “Brilliant Property”).  Defendant Faith Media Distribution, Inc. (“Faith Media”) owns the property located at 14155 Beresford Road (the “Faith Property”).   Plaintiffs allege that certain palm trees on the Faith Property block their view and violate the Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association, Inc.’s (“HOA”) Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (“Declaration” or “CC&R’s”) and Architectural Standards & Design Guidelines (“Design Guidelines”). The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) enforcement of equitable servitudes, (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) nuisance, (6) negligence, (7) negligent misrepresentation, and (8) declaratory relief.  All of the claims are alleged against Faith Media, except for the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.     This hearing is on Faith Media’s demurrer and motion to strike the Complaint.  As to its demurrer, Faith Media argues that (1) Plaintiffs’ first, second, third, sixth and eighth causes of action are time-barred; (2) the CC&R’s do not create an enforceable right to view plane, (3) the Design Guidelines do not create a private right of action; (4) Faith Media is a bona fide purchaser; and (5) nuisance liability does not exist for tree obstruction.  As to its motion to strike, Faith Media argues (1) Plaintiffs have not stated a basis to support a claim for punitive damages, and (2) Plaintiffs’ summaries of the HOA documents are directly contradicted by the actual documents. MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing its meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  Faith Media submits a statement asserting compliance with Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.      REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Faith Media requests judicial notice of (1) a grant deed recorded December 24, 2020 in the County of Los Angeles, Instrument No. 20201725292, (2) April 2014 email correspondence with HOA re HOA investigation of tree compliance, (3) July 2014 email correspondence with HOA re HOA investigation of tree compliance, (4) satellite imagery taken on or around 2018 of 14155 Beresford Road, Los Angeles, California, (5) Declaration of Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions for Mulholland Estates dated August 29, 1988, and (6) Mulholland Estates Homeowners Association VI. Architectural Standards & Design Guidelines.  The Court grants the request as to (1), (5) and (6) pursuant to Cal. Evid. §§ 452(h) and 453.  The Court denies the request as to (2), (3), (4) as the documents constitute hearsay and/or are reasonably subject to dispute.   LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”); Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Faith Media argues there is no viewshed easement, and therefore, Plaintiffs’ claims fail as they are not entitled to a particular view.  The Court agrees. The extent of an easement “is determined by the terms of the grant …” (Civ. Code § 806.)  Here, there is no allegation that an easement has been created either directly via a deed restriction nor by the express creation of a viewshed easement in the CC&R’s.   None of the Governing Documents create a viewshed easement, nor does the Faith Media grant deed. (Exs. 1, 5 to Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”).)  The CC&R’s list a series of easements, none of which includes a viewshed easement.  (Ex. 5 to RJN at Art. VIII (“EASEMENTS”).)   Likewise, the Design Guidelines do not create a viewshed easement.  (Ex. 6 to RJN.)  Indeed, the Design Guidelines acknowledge that “Palms will grow through the viewshed and are encouraged for the Rear Yard and rear slope areas.”  (Ex. 6 to RJN at § 2.5.1).  Without express creation of a viewshed easement, one does not exist.  (See, e.g, Petersen v. Friedman (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 245, 247-248 (viewshed easements are created by express grant).) Plaintiffs cite a number of provisions they argue support their position that they are entitled to a “reasonably” unobstructed views.  First, they cite Section 1.1 of the Guidelines which merely says the viewsheds are a concern of the Guidelines.  This section does not state a particular view is guaranteed. Second, Plaintiffs point to Section 1.5.2 of the Design Guidelines.  That section states that certain lots, lots 3 through 11, “will be subject to special controls on height and bulk and rear yard structures.”  It does not specify what the controls will be, and therefore, does not mandate any obligations on Faith Media.   Third, Plaintiffs cite to Section 2.5.1 of the Guidelines.  That section is part of what the Guidelines describe as a “planting philosophy” to be used in the development of landscaping plants being submitted for approval.  It notes that tall trees can be planted but should be done at “infrequent intervals” and “arranged” in a certain manner.  It sets forth guidelines of what should be approved for planting and installation—they do not give rights to homeowners whenever a view is obstructed.  They certainly do not state that trees cannot exceed a height that in any way impedes another homeowner’s view.  In any event, the provision relates to new plantings.  There is no allegation that Faith Media’s landscaping constitutes new plantings.       Section 2.5.1 also states that “shrubs can be naturally topped.”  The language is not mandatory (i.e., it says “can” and not “must”), and in any event, the Complaint is about the Faith Media’s trees, not shrubs.  Section 2.5.1 also requires “selected interior pruning during young growth and the pruning of heads are techniques to be employed regularly by Owners.”  This clause does not require removal or topping of trees (i.e., cutting off the tops of trees) if they reach a certain height.  And in any event, Plaintiffs allege Faith Media does trim its palm trees.  (Compl. ¶49.)   Fifth, Plaintiffs cite to Section 2.5.3 which states “on-lot maintenance shall be performed on a weekly basis and shall include: trimming and cutting lawns, pruning shrubs and trees that affect viewsheds of others, removal of dead or dying shrubs, removal of all weeds, and cleaning of all drains to protect slopes.”  This section relates to the pruning of trees, not their removal or topping.  There is no dispute Faith Media prunes its trees.  (Compl. ¶49.)      In sum, none of the provisions Plaintiffs rely create a viewshed easement or otherwise give Plaintiffs a right to a particular view.  When the Governing Documents seek to specify a particular obligation, they do just that in clear language.  For instance, they impose height restrictions on various improvements and noticeably omit any landscaping height restrictions: walls, fences and hedges “shall not exceed 30 inches within 10 feet of the front lot line”; no retaining walls “of more than 12 feet in height will be permitted”; homes shall be no more than “35 feet” tall.  (Ex. 6 to RJN at 2.2, 2.6.2, 2.6.4.)  The HOA knew how to impose height restrictions and could have used precise language to create protected viewsheds by capping tree heights or expressly creating an easement to protect views.  The HOA didn’t do so, and consequently, Plaintiffs have no contractually protected right to a viewshed.   Accordingly, the Court sustains Faith Media’s demurrer and does so without leave to amend.  While leave to amend should be liberally granted, Plaintiffs have the burden to show that an amendment could fix the defects in their Complaint.  (Blank, 39 Cal.3d at 318.)  Neither the grant deed nor the Governing Documents provide Plaintiffs with a right to a view, and Plaintiffs cannot amend their Complaint to allege that they do.  Given this ruling, the Court declines to consider other arguments raised in the demurrer.     CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS Faith Media’s demurrer without leave to amend and DENIES as moot its motion to strike.   DATED:  April 19, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 
