 Case Number:  22TRCV01133    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 Wednesday, August 7, 2024  
Department M                                                                                          Calendar No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Credit
Card Services, Inc. v. Heung Tae Oh, et al.  
22TRCV01133

1.      Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to Second
Amended Cross-Complaint
2.      Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Cross-Complaint      

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Cross-Complaint is overruled. 
 
Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Cross-Complaint is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on November 4, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s grocery market customers, who used
defendant’s software, started to complain to Plaintiff about defects in the
services. Defendants were responsible for correcting such defects. Defendants manipulated
the software that it used to perform services to Plaintiff to cause the defects.
Grocery market customers canceled their contracts with Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleged causes of action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
intentional interference with contractual relations, and violation of Cal. Bus.
& Prof. Code sections 17200, et seq. 
 
            Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint and then a First
Amended Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant alleged the following causes of
action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; 3. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage;
4. Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and 5. Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
 
            On October 3, 2023, Credit Card Services, Inc.’s Demurrer
to First Amended Cross-Complaint was overruled, in part, and sustained with 20
days leave to amend, in part. On October
23, 2023, Defendant filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint alleging the
following causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; 3. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage;
and 4. Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Cross-Defendant set
forth a meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41
and CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. Jake Jung, ¶ 2.)
  
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Cross-Defendant demurs to the third and fourth causes of
action of the SACC for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action and for uncertainty. 
               
            Third Cause of Action for Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage
            Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Relations

             Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is overruled. Cross-Complainants
state facts sufficient to state the causes of action.  
 
            The elements of Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage are: (a) An economic relationship between the plaintiff and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (b) The defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (c) Intentional
acts by the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (d) Actual
disruption of the relationship; (e) Economic harm to the plaintiff proximately
caused by the acts of the defendant; (f) Conduct that was wrongful by some
legal measure other than the fact of interference itself. Della Penna v.
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.
 
            “The tort of negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage is established where a plaintiff demonstrates that (1) an
economic relationship existed between the plaintiff and a third party which
contained a reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to
plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was
aware or should have been aware that if it did not act with due care its
actions would interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose in whole
or in part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the
relationship; (3) the defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused
damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was actually interfered with or
disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or
advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.” Venhaus v. Shultz
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078. A claim for negligent interference also
requires the pleading of the independent wrongful conduct. National Medical
Transportation Network v. Deloitte & Touche (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 412,
439-42.
 
            Cross-Complainants have now pled facts of an economic
relationship with a third party.  Cross-Complainants allege that the third party
or third parties were Hannam Chain, Greenland Market, Arirang Market, and
H-Mart. While previously, Cross-Complainants had only alleged that they were customers
of CCS, Cross-Complainants now allege that these parties also had independent
contractual relationships with Cross-Complainants outside and separate from the
relationship between these entities and Cross-Defendant. Thus,
Cross-Complainants have now adequately pled facts to support the existence of
an economic relationship with the probability of future economic benefit to
Cross-Complainants between these third parties and Cross-Complainants. The
truth of these allegations cannot be adjudicated with a demurrer.  
 
            Cross-Complainants have now alleged sufficient facts to
meet elements (b) to (e) listed above pursuant to Della Penna and
elements (2) to (4) of Venhaus. (SACC, ¶¶ 26-30; 32-36).
Cross-Complainants have alleged facts independent wrongful conduct as outlined
within the first and second causes of action for Breach of Contract and Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
 
            The demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is overruled.

 
            
            Motion to
Strike  
 
            The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Cross-Defendant moves to strike the following items:
“1. Paragraph 31, Page
10, Lines 3 - 6, unauthorized punitive damages claim as against Cross Defendant.
Code Civ. Proc. Section 436(a). 2. Prayer for Relief (Third Cause of Action),
Page 12, Line 23, unauthorized punitive damages claim as against
Cross-Defendant. Code Civ. Proc. Section 436(a).”        (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 7-10).
 
            Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
            “(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
            (b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant
to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
            Cross-Complainant failed to set forth specific facts to
meet the requirements of Civ. Code § 3294(b).
 
            Therefore, the motion to strike is granted with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
            Cross-Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.