  Case Number:  19STCV20315    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Wednesday, August 7, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 10   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Kyle
Brown v. Beach House Design & Development, et al.
19STCV20315
1.      Barbara Brown’s Petition for Approval of Compromise of
Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Person with a
Disability    
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Barbara
Brown’s Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition
of Proceeds of Judgment for Person with a Disability is granted.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed his Complaint on June 11, 2019.
Plaintiff was employed by O’Rourke Construction (“O’Rourke”), a subcontractor
hired by the general contractor Defendant Beach House Design & Development
(“Beach House”) for a construction project. On June 16, 2017, Plaintiff fell
from a scaffold on the jobsite located at 1727 Monterey Boulevard, Hermosa
Beach, California 90254. Plaintiff alleged a sole cause of action for General
Negligence. Cross-Complaints were also filed by moving Defendant Beach House
and by Defendant and moving party A&D Plastering, Inc. (“A&D”) another
subcontractor on the project.
Petitions to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of
Minor
 
A claim by or against a minor may be settled through
compromise only with the approval of the court. 
A petition for approval must be presented to the court by the minor’s
guardian.  CCP § 372; Probate Code Secs.
2500-2507; 3413-3605.
 
The court should consider the following factors: the
circumstances of the accident, particularly the facts bearing on the payor’s
liability and the minor’s damages; the amount of the proposed settlement; the
method of payment; the nature of the injury and the minor’s current medical
status (the petition should include a recent medical report); and the amount of
attorney’s fees being requested.  Before
the hearing, the court should make a preliminary determination of whether the
proposed settlement and the method of payment appear reasonable in relation to
the potential liability and the nature and extent of injuries.  It is especially important to determine
whether the minor’s condition is permanent, and whether it is stable or likely
to worsen.  The court should also make a
preliminary determination as to whether the costs, expenses, and attorneys’
fees appear reasonable.
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition for compromise of pending action. The Court determines that the
petition is reasonable as to the settlement amount. The Court finds that the
settlement is in the best interests of the person with a disability. Pursuant
to the petition, the disposition of the proceeds of the settlement funds cannot
be approved until resolution of the entire action as set forth in Attachment 13
of the proposed order. 
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Petitioner’s Petition to Approve Compromise
of Pending Action of Person with a Disability is granted.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 