  Case Number:  24STCP00925    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  85 
Cody Clapp v. Department of Motor Vehicles, 24STCP00925
 


Tentative decision on petition for administrative mandamus:
granted




 
Petitioner Cody Clapp
(“Clapp”) seeks administrative mandamus or a writ of prohibition to set aside
the suspension of his driving privilege by the Department of Motor Vehicles
(the “Department” or “DMV”). 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
1. The Petition
Petitioner Clapp filed the Petition on March 24, 2024,
alleging a claim of writ of prohibition/mandate against the DMV.  The Petition alleges in pertinent part as
follows.
 
a. Background 
            On
July 27, 2023, Clapp was a resident of Shadow Hills, Los Angeles, California.  Respondent DMV is an agency of the State of
California.  At all times herein, Clapp was
the holder of license number F8413137 issued by the DMV.
On July 27, 2023, California Highway Patrol (“CHP”) Officers
Kim and Howells stopped Clapp on 1-710 north of Pacific Coast Highway. Clapp complied
with the officers' investigation and was given an order of suspension and a
temporary license on a DMV DS367 form.  The
sole violation marked on the DS367 form was "0.08% or more BAC Chemical
Test Results".  There are no
chemical test results on the DS367.  The
space for the violation alleging "Chemical Test Refusal" was not
marked on t he DS367.  
Prior to the administrative hearing, the superior court
granted Clapp a military diversion such that the related criminal case was on
track to be dismissed without a conviction. 
 
b. The Administrative Hearing
On February 14, 2024, an administrative hearing regarding
the suspension of Clapp's license commenced before DMV Hearing Officer Meneses (the
“Hearing Officer”). Clapp's attorney objected to the single hearing officer
format as unconstitutional in violation of his due process rights.  The hearing continued over this objection. 
On March l4, 2024, a month after the hearing, the Hearing
Officer issued a Notification of Findings and Decision (the
"Decision") suspending Clapp's driving privilege for four months.  In the Decision, the Hearing Officer improperly
shifted the burden of proof to Clapp as to the timeliness of the DS367 and
relied on inadmissible documents over Clapp’s objection.  
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
On March 21, 2024, Petitioner Clapp filed the Petition for
Writ of Mandate.
On September 16, 2024, Respondent DMV filed its Answer. 
 
B. Standard of Review
A party may seek to set aside an agency decision by
petitioning for either a writ of administrative mandamus (CCP §1094.5) or of
traditional mandamus. CCP §1085.  CCP
section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision which structures the
procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions rendered by
administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”) (1974)
11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
CCP section 1094.5 does not in its face specify which cases
are subject to independent review.  Fukuda
v. City of Angels, (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 811.  Instead, that issue was left to the
courts.  In cases reviewing decisions
which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court exercises independent
judgment on the evidence.  Bixby v.
Pierno, (1971)4 Cal.3d 130, 143.  See
CCP '1094.5(c).  While driving is a privilege, not a right,
suspension or revocation of a driver’s license is a fundamental right for purposes
of judicial review and requires application of the independent judgment
test.  Berlinghieri v. Department of
Motor Vehicles, (1983) 33 Cal.3d 392, 398. 
Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines
the administrative record for errors of law but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  Id. at 143.  The court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations.  Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City
of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners, (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860,
868.  In short, the court substitutes its
judgment for the agency’s regarding the basic facts of what happened, when,
why, and the credibility of witnesses.  Guymon
v. Board of Accountancy, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 1010, 1013-16.
“In exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must
afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative
findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision bears the
burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to
the weight of the evidence.”  Fukuda
v. City of Angels, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 817.  Unless it can be demonstrated by petitioner
that the agency’s actions are not grounded upon any reasonable basis in law or
any substantial basis in fact, the courts should not interfere with the
agency’s discretion or substitute their wisdom for that of the agency.  Bixby v. Pierno, supra, 4
Cal.3d at 150-151; Bank of America v. State Water Resources Control Board,
(1974) 42 Cal. App.3d 198, 208.
Where the issue is
whether a fair administrative hearing was conducted, a petitioner is entitled
to an independent judicial determination of the issue.  Sinaiko v. Superior Court, (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1141; Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Superior
Court, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 101. Therefore, the court must
independently review the fairness of the administrative proceedings as a legal
issue.  Rosenblit v. Superior Court,
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1434, 1438.)
The DMV has the burden of proof at the administrative
hearing.  Hughes v. Alexis, (1985)
170 Cal.App.3d 800, 806.  The agency’s
decision must be based on a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
hearing.  Board of Medical Quality
Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860, 862.  The hearing officer is only required to issue
findings that give enough explanation so that parties may determine whether,
and upon what basis, to review the decision. 
Topanga, supra, 11
Cal.3d at 514-15.  Implicit in CCP section
1094.5 is a requirement that the agency set forth findings to bridge the
analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate decision or order.  Topanga, 11 Cal.3d at 515.
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden
of proof on mandamus.  Steele v. Los
Angeles County Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129,
137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls upon
the party attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the
proceedings were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse
of discretion.”  Alford v. Pierno,
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691.
 
C. Law Pertaining to
Administrative Per Se Driver’s License Suspension/ Revocation
Vehicle Code[1] section 23152 provides that it is a crime
to drive either (a) under the influence of alcohol or (b) with a blood alcohol
of .08% or more, by weight. Section 23153 provides that these same
circumstances are a crime where they resulted in injuries to anyone other than
the driver.



Section 23612(a)
provides that any driver is deemed to have given consent to chemical testing of
blood or breath for purposes of testing alcohol content if lawfully arrested
for driving under the influence.  Section
23612(d)(2) provides that the driver is deemed to consent to a urine test of
alcohol content if blood or breath are not available.  The person shall be told that his/her failure
to submit to or complete the required chemical testing will result in a fine
and mandatory incarceration if the person is criminally convicted, and the
suspension/revocation of his/her driver’s license for one, two, or three years
depending on prior offenses. 
§23612((a)(1)(D).  The person has
a choice of blood or breath tests, and shall be so advised. §231 62(a)(2). 
In an
administrative per se hearing for license suspension after a DUI arrest
where the driver completed and failed the chemical test, the DMV’s evidence
must establish (1) that the peace officer had reasonable cause to believe that
the person had been driving a motor vehicle in violation of sections 23152 or
23153; (2) that the person was placed under lawful arrest; and (3) that the
person was driving a motor vehicle when that person had .08 percent or more, by
weight, of alcohol in his or her blood. 
§13558(c)(2); McKinney v. Department of Motor Vehicles, (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 519, 526.
“[I]t is a
rebuttable presumption that the person had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of
alcohol in his or her blood at the time of driving the vehicle if the person
had 0.08 percent or more, by weight, of alcohol in his or her blood at the time
of the performance of a chemical test within three hours after the
driving.”  §23152(b).  
Expert testimony
that a petitioner's BAC was rising at the time of her chemical tests and thus
possibly below the 0.08 percent threshold at the time she had been driving is
sufficient to rebut the section 23152(b) presumption.  Coffey v. Shiomoto, (2015) 60 Cal.4th
1198, 1211.  Once the presumption is
rebutted, the DMV must provide sufficient evidence to establish the plaintiff's
BAC at the time she was driving without resorting to the statutory presumption.  Id. 
The hearing officer may consider any relevant circumstantial evidence of
the plaintiff’s intoxication in determining whether the plaintiff’s BAC was
actually .08 or higher when driving.  Id.
at 1217.  

 
D. Statement of Facts[2]
1. Background 
            On July 27, 2022, CHP Officers Kim
and D. Howells were driving northbound I-710, north of Pacific Coast Highway,
in the number one lane when they noticed a black Chevrolet 2500 pickup truck,
directly in front of them, that was unable to maintain its lane.  AR 9, 14. 
At one point, the Chevrolet drifted over into the number two lane and
nearly collided with a trailer attached to a semi-truck.  AR 9, 14. 
After passing the I-405, the Chevrolet changed lanes to the number two
lane and accelerated to 85 miles per hour (“mph”) in a 65-mph zone, passing
slower traffic in the #1 lane. The Chevrolet then changed back into lane #1.  AR 9, 14. 
At that point, Officer Kim activated his emergency lights to conduct an
enforcement stop. AR 9, 14.  
While speaking with Clapp,
Officer Kim could smell the odor of alcoholic beverage emitting from the
vehicle.  AR 14.  Officer Kim asked Clapp if he had anything to
drink and Clapp replied, “nothing.”  AR
14.  While questioning Clapp, Officer Kim
observed objective signs of intoxication, including “red watery eyes, slurred
speech, unsteady gait, and the distinct odor of alcoholic beverage emitting
from his breath and person.”  AR 14.  Officer Kim asked Clapp again if he had
anything to drink, to which Clapp stated, “I haven’t had much to drink.”  AR 14. 

Officer Kim administered
Field Sobriety Tests (“FST”) but Clapp was unable to perform them as explained
and demonstrated.  AR 14.  Clapp stumbled and lost his balance on his
first step and missed heel-to-toe contact several times.  AR 13. 
During the entire testing phase, Clapp raised his arms from his sides to
aid in his balance.  AR 13.
Clapp agreed to take a
Preliminary Alcohol Screening (“PAS”) in which he provided two samples with
results of .219% BAC and a .234% BAC.  AR
13.  Based on Clapp’s “performance of
FSTs, his objective signs and symptoms of alcohol intoxication, his observed
driving and his admission of drinking,” Officer Kim formed the opinion that Clapp
was under the influence of alcohol and was unable to operate a vehicle safely
and placed him under arrest.  AR 14-15.  
Officer Kim admonished Clapp
about his implied consent to take a blood or breath test and Clapp consented to
take a breath test.  AR 15.  Clapp was transported to Long Beach Police
Department, where he completed the breath test. 
AR 15.  He provided two breath
samples, which showed a BAC of .213% and .212%. 
AR 15.
 
2. The Hearing 
The hearing on Clapp’s
driver’s license suspension took place on February 14, 2024.  AR 21. 
The Hearing Officer began the
hearing by stating that she will be acting as a neutral-fact finder and will
not be acting as an advocate.  AR
23.  Her role was to review the
evidence provided, ask clarifying questions if necessary, and make legal
rulings and determinations under the relevant statutes.  AR 21-23. 
The Hearing Officer stated
the hearing was limited to the following issues: (1) Whether the officer had
reasonable cause to believe Clapp was driving a motor vehicle in violation of
Vehicle Code Section 23152 or 23153; (2) whether Clapp was placed under lawful
arrest; and (3) whether Clapp was driving a motor vehicle with a BAC of 0.08%
or more.  AR 21-23.  
Clapp’s counsel objected
to the single hearing officer format as unconstitutional.  AR 23-24. 
The Hearing Officer responded 
that she had no authority to rule on this issue.  AR 24.
The Hearing Officer identified
and introduced the following four exhibits: (1): Age 21 and Older Officer’s
Statement (Form DS-367); (2) arrest report; (3) precautionary check list or
intoxilyzer precautionary checklist; and (4) Clapp’s driving record.  AR 24. 
Clapp’s counsel objected to the Form DS-367 based on hearsay, lacks
foundation, and unable to tell if it was provided timely.  AR 25. 
He objected to the arrest report on the same grounds. AR 26.  He objected to the precautionary checklist or
intoxilyzer precautionary checklist on the grounds that there is no indication
as to when the intoxilyzer checklist was provided, as hearsay, and lacking
foundation.  AR 27.  Lastly, he objected to Clapp’s driving record
based on hearsay and lack of foundation. 
AR 27-28.  
Clapp additionally
argued that the DS367 form was not properly filled out and the complete
document was not produced, and that there is no evidence that it was timely
provided to the DMV within five (5) business days, as required by Vehicle Code
section 13380(a).  AR 26-27.  Additionally, Clapp objected and argued that
there is no admissible evidence of any BAC in this case.  AR 25.
The Hearing Officer
overruled counsel’s objections and received the exhibits into evidence.  AR 29. 
Clapp’s counsel submitted no exhibits or evidence of his own.  AR 21-31. 

In his closing argument,
Clapp’s counsel argued that Officer Kim clearly did not complete the paperwork
correctly.  AR 29.  The breath test results were not reported on
the DS367, the police report and Intoxilyzer checklist are not sworn documents,
and the lack a proper foundation.  AR
29.  As a result, there are no properly
admitted chemical test results.  AR
29.  
 
3. The Decision 
On March 12, 2024, the Hearing
Officer issued her decision suspending Clapp’s driver license through July 22,
2024.  AR 3-5.  Based on a review of the evidence, the Hearing
Officer determined that (a) the peace officer had probable cause to believe
that Clapp was speeding, (b the officer 
had reasonable cause to believe that Clapp was driving a motor vehicle under
the influence of alcohol, and (c) he was placed under lawful arrest.  AR 3-4. 
The Hearing Officer concluded that Clapp submitted to a chemical test
and was driving a motor vehicle with a concentration of alcohol in his blood at
or above 0.08%”.  AR 4.
Clapp claimed the test
results were unsworn but the Hearing Officer determine that the contention
lacked merit.  AR 4.  The breath test was taken within three hours
of driving and the Breath Test Machine Operator’s Certification under penalty
of perjury met the requirements of California Code of Regulations (“CCR”) Title
17.  The DMV used the unsworn reports to
supplement the sworn report and case law states that accompanying heresy can
supplement an officer’s sworn statement. 
AR 4.
Clapp’s counsel
contended that he was unsure whether the DS367 was filled out and filed with
the DMV within five days of the incident, but the instruction to forward the
DS367 to the DMV is directional, not mandatory. 
AR 4.  Nor did counsel show that
the DS367 was not forwarded to the DMV within five days.  AR 4.
 
E. Analysis
Petitioner Clapp seeks administrative
mandamus to set aside the suspension of his driving privilege by the DMV.[3] 
 
1. Whether Officer
Kim Had Reasonable Cause to Believe Clapp Had Been Driving a Motor Vehicle in Violation
of the Vehicle Code
Officer Kim
observed objective signs of intoxication, including “red watery eyes,” “slurred
speech,” “unsteady gait” and “odor of alcoholic beverage,” and those objective
signs gave him probable cause to arrest Clapp. AR
14.   After the stop, Officer Kim administered a
series of FSTs which Clapp was unable to perform as explained and demonstrated.
 AR
14.  For example, during the test phase,
he “stumbled and lost his balance” a few times and kept “missing heel to toe
contact.”  AR 13.
Clapp agreed to
take a PAS and, after struggling to blow into the PAS device correctly, he eventually
provided a sample resulting in .219% BAC and a .234% BAC on his second sample.  AR 13.
Based on Clapp’s “performance of FSTs, his objective signs and symptoms of
alcohol intoxication, his observed driving and his admission of drinking,”
Officer Kim formed the opinion that Clapp was under the influence of alcohol
and unable to operate a vehicle safely and placed him under arrest.  AR 15. 
Clapp does not dispute that Officer Kim had reasonable cause
to believe that he had been driving under the influence.  
 
2. Whether Clapp Was
Lawfully Placed Under Arrest
Probable cause for arrest exists when the facts known to the
arresting officer would lead a
person of ordinary care and prudence
to entertain an honest and strong suspicion that the person arrested is guilty
of a crime.  Grundy v. Gourley,
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 20, 25.  
Officer Kim
initially stopped Clapp because he was unable to maintain his lane, breaking
erratically, and driving 85 miles per hour (mph) in a 55-mph zone.  AR 14.  After he had reasonable cause to believe that
Clapp was driving under the influence of alcohol, he arrested Clapp.  AR 15.
Clapp does not
dispute that Officer Kim had probable cause to stop his vehicle and that he was
lawfully arrested.  
 
3. Whether Clapp Was Driving a Motor Vehicle With .08%
or More, By Weight, of Alcohol in His Blood
Following his arrest, Clapp consented to take a breath test
and he got two results showing a BAC of .213% and .212%.  AR 64,
94.  The tests were taken about an hour
after his arrest.  AR 15, 64, 96.
Clapp challenges the admissibility of this evidence.  Clapp argues that the
DS367 form was not properly filled out, was incomplete, and should not have
been received into evidence.  The DS367
should be a total of 6 pages.  In this
case, the back of page 2 and the back of page 3 are missing. The back of page 2
would tell the arresting officer to forward the entire DS367 within five
business days of the arrest.  The back of
page 3 advises the driver of the hearing issues and his rights.  Without these two pages, it is unknown whether
Clapp was properly advised of his rights and whether Officer Kim properly and
timely forwarded the DS367 to the DMV. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 3, 5.
Clapp also argues that Officer Kim had a duty to provide the
DS367 to DMV within five business days.  Section
13380(a) requires the officer to “immediately
forward to the department a sworn report of all information relevant to the
enforcement action…” and defines “’immediately’ means on or before the end of
the fifth ordinary business day following the arrest.”  There is no evidence that happened. In
her decision, the Hearing Officer shifted the burden of proof to Clapp to show
it was not timely forwarded.  See AR
4.  Pet. Op. Br. at 3, 6; Reply at 2.
Finally, Clapp argues that there is no
admissible evidence of his BAC.  There
is a place on the front of page 1 of the DS367 (AR 7) for the officer to fill
in the breath test results, but Officer Kim failed to include this information.  The DS367 is the only document submitted to the
DMV under penalty of perjury; the police report and
Intoxilyzer checklist are not sworn documents. 
Unsworn, hearsay documents may be used to supplement sworn documents,
but are not sufficient in themselves to support a finding.  Govt. Code §11513(d).  Title17 also has a foundational requirement
that the breath device be accuracy checked every ten days. 17 CCR §1221.2(a)(2)(B).  No evidence of this foundation was presented
at the hearing.  The PAS device is
subject to the same requirements, and they were not met.  Id. Pet. Op. Br. at 3, 6.
The DMV responds that three key statutory sections govern the admissibility of evidence in APS
hearings. First, Evidence Code section
1280 permits a court to admit an official record or report without requiring
the witness to testify where: (1) the writing was made by and within the scope
of duty of a public employee; (2) the writing was made at or near the time of
the act, condition, or event; and (3) the sources of information and method and
time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness. Second,
section 13557(a) requires the Department to “consider the sworn report
submitted by the peace officer … and any other evidence accompanying the
report.”  Third, Government Code section 11513(c) states that,
in administrative hearings, “[a]ny relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is
the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the
conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or
statutory rule which might make improper the admission of the evidence over
objection in civil actions.”  Further, section 14104.7 has mandatory language
requiring this evidence to be considered in a hearing: “At any hearing, the
department shall consider its official records and may receive sworn
testimony.”  Opp. at 13.
Clapp fails to
acknowledge that the DMV is not required to lay a foundation for the exhibits
to be considered at his APS hearing pursuant to the relaxed standards of
evidence applicable under the Administrative
Procedures Act.  Govt. Code §11513(c).
 Clapp’s
hearsay objections also lack merit because a police officer’s sworn and unsworn
reports are admissible in APS hearings despite a hearsay objection.  See, e.g., MacDonald v. Gutierrez, (2004) 32
Cal.4th 150, 159 (“so long as a sworn report is filed, it is consistent with
the relaxed evidentiary standards” of an APS hearing that “an unsworn report
filed by the arresting officer” can be considered); Lake v. Reed, (1997) 16 Cal.4th
448, 461 (“A police officer’s report, even if unsworn, constitutes the
sort of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the
conduct of serious affairs.”); Murphy
v. Shiomoto, (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1052, 1063 (“Where an officer
files a sworn statement with the Department, the officer’s unsworn arrest
report is admissible at the [APS] hearing to supplement the sworn report.”).  Opp. at 14.
The DMV concludes that overwhelming evidence shows that Clapp’s
BAC exceeded the legal limit.  As the Hearing
Officer noted, “the Breath Test Machine Operator’s Certification, contained
herein signed certification under penalty of perjury that the breath test
sample results were obtained in the regular course of duties, indicates that
the breath test operator was qualified to operate the equipment and that the
test was administered pursuant to the requirements of Title 17 of the California Code of Regulations.”
 AR
4.[4]  These results were reported on the arrest
report.  The PAS results, which are
contained in the DS-367, also clearly show that Clapp’s BAC exceeded the legal
limit.  Additionally, circumstantial
evidence consisting of objective symptoms of intoxication, performance on FSTs,
and admissions of drinking may all be considered in determining whether a
driver had or did not have a BAC of .08 percent or greater.  Komizu
v. Gourley, (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1007-08.  Opp. at 12.
The court agrees that unsworn reports may be admitted to
supplement sworn statements in APS cases. 
“[S]o long as a sworn report is filed, it is consistent with the relaxed
evidentiary standards of an administrative per se hearing that technical
omissions of proof can be corrected by an unsworn report filed by the arresting
officer.”  MacDonald v. Gutierrez,
supra, 32 Cal.4th at 159.  Moreover,
a mistake on a police report does not necessarily render a police report or
sworn statement unreliable and inadmissible. 
Snelgrove v. Department of Motor Vehicles, (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 1364
(report admitted despite noting an incorrect time of arrest); Burge v.
Department of Motor Vehicles, (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 384, 390 (officer’s
statement admitted despite omitting the time of a chemical test).  
Additionally, as the Hearing Officer noted, “there is no
requirement that the DS-367 be received by the Department within 5 days”.  AR 4. The D-367 states that the form shall be
forwarded to the DMV within five days, but it is instructional and not a
requirement. Thus, the DS-367 was properly admitted.  AR 4.
While the parties do not specifically address the
breathalyzer BAC test results, the evidence generally was properly admitted.
 
4. Clapp Did Not Receive a Fair Hearing
Despite this evidence, the principal issue in this case is
whether Clapp received a fair hearing.  
In California DUI Lawyers Association v. California
Department of Motor Vehicles, (“DUI Lawyers”) (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 517, the court found the
hearing officer's dual roles as advocate and adjudicator in a DMV APS hearing
creates an unacceptable risk of bias by combining advocacy and adjudicatory
roles into a single DMV employee.  Id.
at 530. The court noted “[a]lthough procedural fairness does not prohibit the
combination of the advocacy and adjudicatory functions within a single
administrative agency, tasking the same individual with both roles violates the
minimum constitutional standards of due process.”  Id. at 532.  The court held that “combining the roles of
advocate and adjudicator in a single person employed by the DMV violates due
process under the Fourteenth Amendment and the California Constitution Article
I, section 7.”  Ibid. As
result, “the DMV is permanently enjoined and restrained from having its APS
hearing officers function as advocates for the position of the DMV in addition
to being finders of fact in the same adversarial proceeding.”  Id. at 538.
The DMV relies on
footnote 5 in DUI Lawyers:
 
“[Petitioner DUI
Lawyers] concedes the [DMV] may task the same person with both collecting and
developing the evidence and rendering a final decision....He or she must
refrain, however, from advocating on behalf of the [DMV] as the DSM currently
mandates ….” Id. at 533, n.5.
 
The DMV argues that this footnote permits it to task the same hearing
officer with investigatory and adjudicatory duties and merely follows
long-standing federal and state due process principles.   See,
e.g., Withrow v. Larkin, (1975) 421 U.S.
35, 46-47, 54 (rejecting due-process-based challenge to the combination of
investigatory and adjudicatory functions of a medical licensing board); Richardson
v. Perales, (1971) 402 U.S. 389, 408-10 (social security examiner's
role as investigator who gathers evidence and decision maker does not violate
due process); Today’s Fresh Start, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cnty.
Office of Education, (“Today’s Fresh Start”) (2013) 57
Cal.4th 197, 220 ("legislature may adopt an administrative procedure in
which the same individual or entity is charged both with developing the facts
and rendering a final decision, and separate adversarial advocates are
dispensed with."); id. at 221 ("Even an agency’s participation in an accusatory
portion of administrative proceedings need not give rise to constitutional
concerns."); Doe v. Univ. of S. Cal., (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 1212, 1235, n.29 (combining investigative and adjudicative
functions does not, without more, deprive a student accused of sexual
misconduct of a fair hearing).  Opp. at 15-16.

The court in Knudsen v. Department of Motor Vehicles,
(“Knudsen”) (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 186, suggested that, if
the DMV hearing officer does not act as an advocate for the DMV or law
enforcement, then the driver's due process right to an impartial adjudicator is
not violated and the constitutional issue is resolved.  In this case, no evidence indicates that the
Hearing Officer acted as an advocate.[5]
 The court in Clarke v. Gordon, (Sept. 12, 2024),
__ Cal.App.5th __, 2024 WL 4163081, did
not decide this constitutional issue.  Although
Clarke v. Gordon stated “[w]e are
hard pressed to imagine how a single DMV employee might discharge multiple
functions during an APS hearing in a manner that will satisfy due process
requirements,” it also stated: “we do not resolve that issue in this opinion.”
2024 WL 4163081, at 6*.  Opp. at 16.
The DMV argues that the combination of collecting
and developing the evidence and rendering a final decision establishes that the
DMV did not violate DUI Lawyers and
Clapp’s due process rights.  DUI
Lawyers did not conclude that that the DMV hearing officer’s dual role
violates due process simply because a hearing officer rules on objections and
renders a decision on the evidence.  Opp.
at 16.
The Hearing Officer introduced the Department’s
evidence at Clapp’s APS hearing to set the evidentiary base for the case as
required by statute.  The Hearing Officer
did not, for example, “rigorously cross-examine” Clapp. See Clarke v. Gordon, supra, 2024 WL 4163081 at 6*.  The Hearing Officer began the hearing by
stating that she will be acting as a neutral-fact finder and will not be acting
as an advocate, read the issues to be decided on the record, identified four
exhibits, gave Clapp’s counsel the opportunity to present any evidence or make
arguments, and the hearing concluded after those tasks; she did not
cross-examine anyone.  AR 21-30. 
The Department did not violate DUI Lawyers or Clapp’s due process rights at the
APS hearing.  Opp. at 17.
More importantly, the Department’s evidence fleshed
out the material facts and issues.  The
arresting officer’s sworn and unsworn reports laid out the case.  These reports then enabled the Hearing Officer
to collect and understand the evidence and weigh it against the law enforcement
reports.  See
AR 4-7, 17-20, 31-35.  The Hearing Officer
did not advocate when she introduced the police reports into evidence.  Compare In re Emily D., (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 438, 445-47 (juvenile court did not violate a mother’s due process
rights by directing Department of Children and Family Services for the mother’s
missing drug test results to “provide the court with a clearer understanding of
[the mother’s] capacity to parent her three children”).  Opp. at 17. 
Clapp points to the documents that the Hearing
Officer chose not to present at the hearing, which were maintenance,
calibration, and accuracy check records for the breath device at issue, a
vehicle report, and records concerning the qualifications of the arresting
officer.  AR 38-64, 103-04, 113-14.  He argues that the Hearing Officer’s choice
to use these records, or not use them, is squarely within the purview of an
advocate, not a trier of fact.  The
Hearing Officer chose to use only the documents she believed were sufficient
for the suspension and chose not to use other available documents.  Reply at 3.
Clapp also argues that the Hearing Officer chose to use the
DS367 that was incomplete and missing critical information about the chemical
test.  He contends that the DS367 should
not have been admitted, and the admission of this document demonstrates the
Hearing Officer’s bias. Reply at 2.
This case is at the margin of due process and, admittedly, Knudsen
indicated that the process followed by the DMV here might work.  101 Cal.App.5th at 206-07. 
The Hearing Officer did no more than select the evidence that
would be offered and received by the DMV, overrule the objections of Clapp’s
attorney, and receive four exhibits into evidence.  This is not a case like Clarke v. Gordon,
where the hearing officer not only offered and received exhibits into evidence
but also examined the appellant.  
Nonetheless, the APS process is adversarial, and the court
does not believe that the hearing officer can both present evidence and decide
the case consistently with DUI Lawyers. 
Clarke v. Gordon expressly stated that it is the function performed
by the hearing officer during the APS hearing that will decide the due process issue.  2024 WL 4163081 at
6*.  In that case, the hearing officer (1)
marshalled, identified, and introduced into evidence the DMV’s exhibits, (2)
overruled Clarke’s objections and received the exhibits, and (3) vigorously
cross-examined Clarke.  Id.  This violated Clarke’s due process rights,
and the court was “hard pressed to imagine” how the DMV employee could
discharge multiple functions in a manner that would satisfy due process, albeit
not deciding that issue.   Id.
In this case, the Hearing Officer performed the first two
tasks identified in Clarke v. Gordon.  
She marked exhibits: “At this time, I do have a couple of documents that
I want to mark and identify for the record.” 
AR 24.  She also overruled the
objections of Clapp’s attorney and received the exhibits into evidence, which
she then used to decide the case. 
The California Supreme Court has explained that it is not
unconstitutional for the same agency employee to develop facts and make a
decision in a proceeding that is inquisitorial, not adversarial.  Today’s Fresh Start, supra, 57
Cal.4th at 220.[6]  It also is not unconstitutional for an agency
to be both investigator, accuser, and adjudicator and, at the extreme, for a
single individual may act as investigator, prosecutor, and decisionmaker.   Id. at 221.  The issue of bias requires a showing of
specific evidence of actual bias or a combination of circumstances showing an
unacceptable risk of bias.  Id.  
Applying the law articulated in Today’s Fresh Start, the
DUI Lawyers court held that an APS hearing officer’s dual role of
advocate and adjudicator creates an unacceptable risk of bias.  77 Cal.App.5th at 530.  In DUI
Lawyers, the DMV admitted that its APS hearing officers have no duty
to assist the driver in preparing for the hearing, “nor a duty to present any
evidence that would support the position of the driver at the hearing.”  Id. at 527.  Further, the DMV acknowledged that the APS
hearing officers rules on “the admissibility of the documentation he or she
offers as evidence as ‘advocate for the [DMV]’ in support of the DMV’s position
at the APS hearing.”  Ibid.  The DMV’s new regulations do not change
this approach.  
DUI Lawyers explained that the DMV is a party to an adversarial
APS hearing.  77 Cal.App.5th
at 532.  Combining the roles of advocate
and adjudicator in a single DMV employee violates due process.  Id. at 532.  DUI Lawyers defined “advocating” as putting on the DMV’s case with no corresponding
duty to present any evidence that would support the driver’s position.  Id. at 533, n. 5.  
Here, the Hearing Officer “present[ed] the DMV’s case”
and acted as the prosecutor.  She
selected, marked, and received the DMV’s evidence and nothing suggests that she attempted
to flesh out facts favorable to Clarke. 
Nor did she have a duty to do so. 
By
introducing the DMV’s evidence, the Hearing Officer’s role involved both
putting on the DMV’s case “as advocate for the DMV’s position at the hearing” and
acting as fact finder.  See id.
at 532. 
While the
Legislature has mandated that certain information shall be considered by the
hearing officer at an APS hearing, the Hearing Officer overruled Clapp’s
objections to all evidence the Hearing Officer ultimately admitted on behalf of
the DMV, including his BAC test results. 
The court has concluded that the DS367 was properly (without
specifically addressing the breathalyzer BAC test results).  Nonetheless, Clapp’s objections about the DS367’s
incompleteness and the lack of supporting evidence are not frivolous; they
could have been sustained in whole or in part.  
Hence, the circumstances of this case support the prospect of an
unacceptable risk of bias. 
Subsequent to DUI Lawyers, Clarke v. Gordon, expressed
skepticism whether it is possible to have a single hearing officer preside over
a DMV hearing consistent with due process requirements. 2024 WL 4163081 at 6* (“We are hard pressed to imagine how a
single DMV employee might discharge multiple functions during an APS hearing in
a manner that will satisfy due process requirements.”).  The court agrees.  Although at the margins, this case is within DUI
Lawyers and Clarke v. Gordon, presenting an unacceptable risk of
bias.
 
5. Prejudice
The DMV argues that Clapp fails to demonstrate error
that resulted in prejudice, meaning that a more favorable result would likely
have resulted had a different hearing procedure been used.  Cal.
Const., art. VI, § 13; see also Leal v. Gourley, (2002)
100 Cal.App.4th 963, 968 (applying requirement of prejudice to error in APS proceedings).  If the combination of investigatory and
adjudicatory duties impermissibly brought the theoretical possibility of bias
in hearings, such inchoate possibility of bias alone is insufficient to warrant
a decision's reversal.  Actual bias or
prejudice must be shown.  Southern
California Underground Contractors, Inc. v. City of San Diego,
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 533, 549. 
"In other words, it must be reasonably probable a more favorable
result would have been reached absent the error."  Lone Star Security & Video, Inc. v. Bureau
of Security & Investigative Services, (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th
1249, 1255 (citation omitted).  Opp. at
17-18.
The DMV is incorrect.  Case law demonstrates that the error of a
hearing officer acting as advocate and decision-maker is structural.  A petitioner need not demonstrate actual bias
where the hearing officer acts as advocate and fact finder.  Knudsen, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th
at 206; Cisneros v. Department of Motor Vehicles, (June 27, 2024)
__Cal.App.5th __, 2024 DJDAR 6082, 6101 (like the advocacy/decision
maker issue in DUI Lawyers and Knudsen, due process violation by managerial
directives as to what constitutes good cause for continuance was structural
error).  The appropriate remedy is a new
APS hearing.
 
6. Attorney Fees
Govt. Code section 800 (“section
800”) authorizes the recovery of attorney fees
from a public entity incurred in appealing an administrative decision only if
the court makes a factual finding that the agency’s decision was the result of
arbitrary or capricious action or conduct of a public entity or public
official.  See Plumbing, Heating and Piping Empl. Council of
North Carolina v Quillin, (“Plumbing”) (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 215,
221.  Arbitrary or capricious in this context means conduct not supported
by a fair or substantial reason, a stubborn insistence on following unauthorized
conduct, or a bad faith legal dispute.  Zuehlsdorf v. Simi Valley
Unified School District, (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 249.  “Attorney’s
fees may not be awarded simply because the administrative entity or official’s
action was erroneous, even if it was ‘clearly erroneous.’”  Stirling v. Agricultural Labor Relations Ed., (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1305, 1312.  The court
must make this finding when ruling on the merits of the case.  A petitioner’s failure to raise the question
of arbitrary or capricious action during the underlying action results in
waiver of the issue.  See Plumbing, supra, 64
Cal.App.3d at 221, 225.  Section 800 limits the amount of recovery of attorney’s
fees to a maximum of $7500 and a rate of $100 per
hour. 
Clapp argues that attorney fees are warranted because the DMV
willfully ignored the United States Constitution and the DUI Lawyers permanent
injunction against using a single hearing officer as trier of fact and advocate
for the DMV. The DMV blatantly disregarded the law and that is the very conduct
section 800 seeks to prevent.  Pet. Op.
Br. at 8.
The DMV argues that there is no evidence supporting, or even
suggesting, that the Hearing Officer’s conduct was arbitrary or capricious. On
the contrary, her conduct was reasonable and well-intentioned. The Hearing Officer
allowed opposing counsel to present his case without limitations and, in her
ruling, weighed all the evidence in an impartial manner.  The Hearing Officer’s conduct is neither in
bad faith nor a stubborn insistence on unauthorized conduct and Clapp’s request
for attorney fees should be denied.  
Opp. at 19-20.
The DMV’s opposition is wrongly focused.  The DUI Lawyers permanent injunction
expressly prohibits DMV hearing officers from “acting as advocates for the
position of the DMV in addition to being finders of fact in the same
adversarial proceeding.”  77 Cal.App.5th
at 538.  That is what the DMV did in this
case. Although it has tried to work around the DUI Lawyers injunction --
following the possibility left open by Knudsen -- the DMV had to know there
is a serious risk that its hearing officers would be violating the injunction by
proceeding in the chosen manner.  The
logical extension of the DMV’s argument is that it can run the risk of violating
the injunction and then argue that such violations of due process are not
subject to attorney fees.  They are.  Clapp is awarded attorney fees under section
800.
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition is
granted.  A judgment and writ shall issue
directing the DMV to set aside the suspension of Clapp’s driver’s license and
conduct further proceedings within its discretion and the law.  Clapp is awarded attorney fees under section
800.   Given the statutory maximum of $7500, the parties are ordered to meet and confer to agree on the amount of
attorney fees.  If they cannot agree,
Clapp may file a motion for a reasonable fee award.
Petitioner Clapp’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment and writ, serve them on the DMV’s counsel for approval as to form,
wait ten days after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are
objections, and then submit the proposed judgment and writ along with a
declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set
for December 5, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


