 Case Number:  23STCV18559    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, May 17, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV18559
CASE NAME:                        David Feeley, et
al. v. Jeffrey R. Vargo, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiffs David Feeley and Porter Ranch Physical Therapy,
Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendants Jeffrey R. Vargo and Vargo Physical Therapy
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for a Preliminary
Injunction
OPPOSITION:                        23 April 2024
REPLY:                                  29
April 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiffs’ request for a
preliminary injunction is granted as set forth below.  

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On August 4, 2023,
David Feeley (“Feeley) and Porter Ranch Physical Therapy, Inc. (“Porter Ranch
PT”) (collectively “Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Jeffrey R. Vargo
(“Vargo”); Vargo Physical Therapy (“Vargo PT”) (collectively “Defendants”) ;
and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed November 30, 2023, alleges six causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Conversion; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(4) Civil Theft (Civ. Code § 496(c)); (5) Declaratory Relief; and (6) Violation
of Corp. Code §§ 1601, 1602.
 
On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs dismissed the sixth cause of action. 
 
On April 26, 2024,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend but
overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action for conversion. (Order 4/26/2024.)

 
On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff moved for a preliminary injunction. Defendants oppose the Motion. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
motion for
preliminary injunction
I.         Legal Standard
 
“A preliminary injunction may be granted
at any time before judgment upon a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if
the complaint in the one case, or the affidavits in the other, show
satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore.” (CCP § 527(a).) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 622.) 
 
(a) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases: 
 
(1) When it appears by the complaint that
the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. 
 
(2) When it appears by the complaint or
affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation
would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the
action. 
 
(3) When it appears, during the
litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to
do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
rights of another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not
afford adequate relief. 
 
(5) Where it would be extremely difficult
to ascertain the amount of compensation which would afford adequate
relief. 
 
(6) Where the restraint is necessary to
prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. 
 
(7) Where the obligation arises from a
trust.
 
(CCP
§ 526(a).) 
 
 “Before issuing a preliminary injunction, the
trial court must ‘carefully weigh the evidence and decide whether the facts
require[ ] such relief.’ [Citation.] The court evaluates the credibility of
witnesses and makes factual findings on disputed evidence.” (Fleishman v.
Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 350, 356.) 
 
A
judge is not precluded from granting a preliminary injunction merely because of
conflicts in the evidence. (See National Subscription
Television v. Formula International, Inc. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 308, 314.) Because a hearing on a preliminary
injunction is not a “trial of a question of fact” within the meaning of CCP §
632, a judge is not required to issue a statement of decision, even on request.
(Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1049.) A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (CCP § 526(a)(4).) Mandatory preliminary injunctions rarely are
granted, and are reserved for extreme cases where the right is established
clearly. (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.)
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections
 
The court
declines to rule on the objections to the Declarations of Ryan Ritthamel and
Mathew Himmelrick because they are not material to the disposition of this
Motion. 
 
Defendants’
Objection to the Declaration of David Feeley:
 
Objections
Nos. 17 and 18 are overruled. 
 
Defendants’
Objection to the Declaration of Randy Haj: 
 
Objections
Nos. 19 to 24 are overruled. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        The Parties’
Argument
 
Plaintiffs seek a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants
from:
 
1)    
Blocking Plaintiffs’ access
to the joint venture clinics (defined below), including the physical premises
of the clinics;
 
2)    
Blocking Plaintiffs’ access
to property belonging to the joint venture clinics, including without
limitation any and all financial accounts associated with the joint venture
clinics;
 
3)    
Preventing Plaintiffs from
withdrawing their ordinary and usual distributions from the financial accounts
for the joint venture clinics, including:
a)    
$621,385.00 in prior
distributions that would have been paid to Plaintiffs from January 2023 through
the present under the parties claimed joint venture agreement;
 
b)    
$22,000 per month from
March 2024 until the termination of this lawsuit by judgment, dismissal, or
otherwise; and
 
c)    
If profit distributions are
made from any of the joint venture clinics, Plaintiffs’ proportionate share of
that distribution, as follows: 
                                              
i.         
For the Porter Ranch clinic
(defined below): 50% of any distribution; 
 
                                            
ii.         
For the Palmdale clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                          
iii.         
For the Reseda clinic
(defined below): 30% of any distribution;
                                          
iv.         
For the Burbank clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                            
v.         
For the San Fernando clinic
(defined below): 33% of any distribution
 
4)    
Refusing to pay any profit
distributions to Plaintiffs to the extent Defendants otherwise would have
distributed profits to the owners of the clinics but for the terms of this
order;
 
5)    
Diverting business from the
joint venture clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but
for the terms of this order;
 
6)    
Defendants are immediately
enjoined from incurring or attributing business expenses to the joint venture
clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but for the terms
of this order;
 
7)    
As used in this order, the
“joint venture clinics” refer to the following physical therapy clinics: 
 
a)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 3425 W. Victory Blvd., Burbank,
California 91505 (the “Burbank clinic”);
 
b)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 38656 Medical Center Dr., Suite
B, Palmdale, California 93551 (the “Palmdale clinic”);
 
c)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 18039 Sherman Way, Reseda,
California 91335 (the “Reseda clinic”);
 
d)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 1240 Truman St., San Fernando,
California 91340 (the “San Fernando clinic”); and
 
e)    
 The Vargo Physical Therapy, Inc. branded
physical therapy clinic located at 11225 Tampa Avenue, Northridge, California
91326 (the “Porter Ranch clinic”).
 
Plaintiffs
assert that in 2004 (the “2004 Agreement” or “Joint Venture Agreement”),
Plaintiffs and Defendant Vargo agreed to merge Plaintiff’s Porter Ranch Physical
Therapy, Inc. (“Porter Ranch PT”) with Defendant Vargo’s three physical therapy
clinics (collectively “Vargo PT”). (Feeley Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
Under
the agreement, Plaintiff would receive $22,000.00 per
month draw from the Porter Ranch PT and Defendant Vargo would receive $8,000.00
per month. (Id. ¶ 3.) “If there were profits beyond those amounts, the
partners would split them 50/50, with those distributions typically made on a
quarterly basis.” (Ibid.)
 
As part of the 2004
Agreement, the parties opened additional clinics (the “joint venture clinics”)
wherein ownership of the clinics was based on the capital contributions and
labor to each new location. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 5.) Contributions and labor included
scouting for locations, purchasing supplies, evaluating potential hires, and
handling administrative aspects of office openings. (Id. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff Feeley asserts his capital contributions and ownership
interest in the joint venture clinics are as follows: 
 

Porter Ranch – Plaintiff’s ownership if 50%
Palmdale (2004) – Contribution: $56,114.00; Ownership:
     40%
Reseda (2005) – Contribution: $120,000.00; Ownership:
     30%
Burbank (2011) – Contribution: $60,000.00; Ownership:
     40%
San Fernando (2018) – Contribution: $66,000.00;
     Ownership: 33%

 
(Feeley
Decl. ¶ 8; Haj Decl. Ex. 12.) Plaintiff had access to the bank account for each
joint venture clinic and profits were distributed on a quarterly basis. (Feeley
Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff
Feeley asserts that the joint venture operated without issue for 18 years and
that Feeley had the authority to act for the business but that the day-to-day
management responsibilities were tasked to the company president Robert Greider
(“Greider”). (Feeley Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) Per the 2004 Agreement, Plaintiff was
paid the agreed-upon monthly draw and his proportional share of any profit
distributions from the clinics. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff Feeley further
asserts that the monthly draw and profit distributions were not based on how
much Plaintiff worked and despite becoming ill in 2020, Plaintiff continued to
receive the agreed draw and profit distributions for the joint venture clinics.
(Feeley Decl. ¶ 16; Haj Decl. ¶¶ 7-10, Ex. 6-9, 16; Grieder Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
However,
on January 18, 2023, a dispute arose wherein Defendant Vargo and Greider told
Plaintiff the monthly distributions would stop but that Plaintiff would continue
to receive profit distributions up until Plaintiff’s retirement at age 59 and 1/2,
which would be January 2, 2026. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 17.) Despite disputing Vargo’s
authority to change the 2004 Agreement, Plaintiff was physically locked out of
the clinics, lost access to the bank accounts, and has been unable to
participate in the management of the joint venture. (Id. ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff Feeley asserts that February 2023 was the last day he was paid profit
distributions or a monthly draw. (Ibid.) After attempts at reaching a
settlement failed, Plaintiff filed suit on August 4, 2023. (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants do not deny that Plaintiff Feeley participated in a
profit-sharing plan, but Mr. Grieder asserts that participation in the
profit-sharing plan was dependent on Feeley continuing to work for Vargo PT.
(Grieder Decl. ¶ 2.) Mr. Grieder asserts that Defendant Vargo was the sole
owner of Vargo PT and had the ultimate authority regarding all business
decisions for Vargo PT. (Id. ¶ 3.) When Grieder was first hired as Vargo
PT’s President, Plaintiff Feeley received a monthly fee for his services for
managing the Vargo PT Porter Ranch Clinic with money being paid to Feeley’s
personal corporation, Porter Ranch PT, with payments initiated by Feeley. (Id.
¶ 4.) 
 
Defendant
Vargo asserts that he has been the sole shareholder and director of Vargo PT.
(Vargo Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. B [Statement of Information filed with California
Secretary of State on March 6, 2024.) Since Plaintiff’s Porter Ranch clinic was
struggling, Defendant Vargo states that it was agreed that Vargo PT would take
over the Porter Ranch clinic and the clinic would be rebranded the Vargo PT
Porter Ranch clinic. (Id. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff Feeley refused to be a Vargo
PT employee and remained the Clinical Director for Vargo PT Porter Ranch with
his corporation, Porter Ranch PT, being paid for Plaintiff’s services. (Id.
¶ 9.) Defendant Vargo asserts that Plaintiff was only entitled to receive a
management fee and half the profits of the Vargo PT Porter Ranch clinic,
conditioned on Plaintiff’s continuing to provide management and physical
therapy services. (Id. ¶ 11.) Defendant Vargo admits he invited
Plaintiff and other key employees to participate in Vargo PT’s profit-sharing
plan on terms set solely by Defendant Vargo at his discretion. (Id. ¶
16.) 
 
Defendant
Vargo admits he invited Plaintiff to share in the profit-sharing plan with
respect to the four clinics but asserts that payments made under the
profit-sharing plan are either bonus compensation for work performed or
repayment of interest of loans made to Vargo PT, or both. (Vargo Decl. ¶¶ 16,
18.) Participation in the profit-sharing plan is conditioned on participants
continuing to work for Vargo PT. (Id. ¶¶ 16, 17.) Any incentive provided
by the profit-sharing plan would be undermined if the participants could stop
working but continue to receive payments in perpetuity. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the money paid to Plaintiff Feeley between 2008 to 2022, totaling
over $4.2 million, was attributable to the four loans received by Vargo PT for
the four clinic expansion plus bonus compensation for work performed at Vargo
PT Porter Ranch clinic. (Id. ¶ 19.) 
 
Even
after Plaintiff Feeley became sick and was unable to work, Plaintiff Feeley
continued to receive his $22,000.00 Porter Ranch PT fee plus funds from the
Vargo PT-Profit Sharing plan because Defendant Fargo felt “sympathy” for his
friend and hoped that Plaintiff Feeley would be able to return to work. (Vargo
Decl. ¶ 25.)  When it became evident that
Plaintiff Feeley would be unable to return to work, it became financially
unfeasible for Vargo PT to pay other personnel to perform Plaintiff’s duties. (Id.
¶¶ 26, 28.) Defendant Vargo was willing to offer Plaintiff a severance wherein
Plaintiff would no longer receive the $22,000.00 monthly fee for services but
would receive payment under the profit-sharing plan through January 2026, when
Feeley would reach retirement age. (Id. ¶ 30; Haj Decl. ¶ 16.)
Ultimately, Defendant Vargo terminated the relationship with Plaintiff Feeley
as Feeley was no longer providing any clinical services. (Vargo Decl. ¶¶ 32,
35.) 
 
Mr.
Grieder asserts that when additional clinics were added, Defendant Vargo
offered key personnel the opportunity to participate in Vargo PT’s
profit-sharing plan but only at the discretion of Defendant Vargo and on the
terms set out by Vargo as Vargo PT’s CEO. (Grieder Decl. ¶ 6.) Moreover,
despite other clinics opening, neither Plaintiff Feely nor Porter Ranch PT were
invited to participate in the profit-sharing plan. (Id. ¶ 8.)
 
Mr.
Grieder confirms that Plaintiff Feeley held the title of Clinical Director of
the Vargo PT Porter Ranch Clinic but was also an authorized signatory on five
Vargo PT Wells Fargo clinic bank accounts. (Id. ¶¶ 9, 10.) Since Plaintiff
initiated each transfer, with the amount calculated and authorized by Mr.
Grieder, it was Plaintiff who wrote “Ownership Distribution” in the transfer
notes, a fact Mr. Grieder became aware only after the commencement of this
lawsuit. (Id. at p. 10.) Lastly, Mr. Grieder assets that although his
personal internal notes used to track Vargo PT’s profit-sharing plan used the
words “equity,” “partnership” and “ownership” the words were used colloquially
and if shared with Vargo PT’s accountant, it was only to help complete tax
returns.  (Id. ¶ 19; Haj Decl. Ex.
11-13, 17-10.) 
B.        Plaintiffs’
Request for a Preliminary Injunction
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction to a plaintiff, a trial
court must weigh two interrelated factors: (1) The plaintiff's likelihood of
success on the merits at trial, and (2) the harm to the plaintiff if the
injunction is not issued against the harm to the defendant if it is.” (Yee v. American National Ins. Co. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
453, 456.) The burden of proof is on the
plaintiff as the moving party “to show all elements necessary to support
issuance of a preliminary injunction.”  (O'Connell v. Superior Court
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)   
1.               Likelihood to Succeed on the
Merits  
 
Under
California law, an agreement may be express or implied by conduct and may be
written or oral. (Civ. Code, §§ 1619, 1621, 1622, 1623.)The parties do not
dispute that Plaintiff Feeley and Defendants were part of a profit-sharing
agreement wherein Plaintiff received $22,000.00 a month plus money that was
classified as either profits by Plaintiffs or as bonuses by Defendants. (Vargo
Decl. ¶ 10; Haj Decl. ¶ 15, Ex. 16.) “Between 2008 and 2022, Vargo
PT has paid Mr. Feeley, through Porter Ranch PT, a total of over $4.2 million
under the Vargo PT profit-sharing plan.”(Grieder Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Defendant Vargo asserts the
$22,000 monthly payment was a monthly management fee contingent on Plaintiff
Feeley continuing to work for Vargo PT and that he solely determined, at his
discretion, the terms of the profit-sharing arrangement. (Vargo Decl.  ¶ 16; Grieder Decl. ¶ 5.) Payments to
Plaintiff Feeley were repayment of the loans with interest plus bonus
compensation for work performed. (Vargo Decl. ¶¶ 16. 19.) Defendants assert
that Defendant Vargo had the sole authority to modify the terms of the 2004
Agreement but provide no evidence of what these terms were or that continuing
to work for Vargo PT was a condition of payment under the agreement. 
 
“A contract
is unenforceable as illusory when one of
the parties has the unfettered or arbitrary right to modify or terminate the
agreement or assumes no obligations thereunder.” (Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 385.) Here, the Declarations of Mr. Grieder and
Defendant Vargo suggest that Defendant Vargo had the sole authority to change
or terminate the profit-sharing agreement as he saw fit. (Vargo Decl.  ¶ 16; Grieder Decl. ¶ 5.) No evidence is
provided by Defendants to support the finding that participation in the profit
sharing and monthly draw was contingent on certain terms being met by the
participants, including continuing to work for Vargo PT. In contrast, the
evidence shows Plaintiff Feeley continued receiving the $22,000 monthly draw
plus profits even though he was out sick and not working for Vargo PT, up until
Defendants decided to stop all payments in early 2023. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 25; Haj
Decl. Ex. 16.) 
 
Defendants also do not dispute that
Plaintiff made contributions to the opening of four Vargo PT/joint venture clinics
but assert that the contributions were loans to Vargo PT and not capital
reflecting an ownership interest. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16.) Defendants provide no
evidence that Plaintiff Feeley’s contributions were loans, as Defendants fail
to provide the loan documents with the agreed upon interest to support the
findings that the repayment to Plaintiff was “repayment with interest of loans
made to Vargo PT.” (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16.) 
 
Defendants further assert that
Plaintiff Feeley was merely a Clinical Director of the Porter Ranch clinic with
responsibilities not different from those of any other Vargo PT Clinical
Director. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 21; Grieder Decl. ¶ 9.) However, Defendants failed to
explain why Plaintiff had access to the bank accounts of five Vargo PT clinics,
specifically the five Plaintiff asserts were part of the joint venture, despite
only being the Clinical Director for the Porter Ranch clinic. (Haj Decl. ¶ 7,
Ex. 6, 7; Grieder Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendants further admit that Plaintiff Feeley
had the authority to initiate the transfers himself. (Grieder Decl. ¶ 10.)
Defendants fail to explain why Plaintiff Feeley was given access to the other
bank accounts and fail to show it was common for participants who had made
loans to Vargo PT to be given access to the bank accounts for each of the
clinics to which the loans corresponded. Moreover, if the profit distributions
were bonus compensation set by Defendant Vargo, why and how did Mr. Grieder
calculate the appropriate payment amounts? (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16, Grider Decl. ¶
10.)
 
As Defendants failed to rebut
Plaintiffs’ evidence as to a continuing right to payment of a $22,000.00
monthly draw plus profit distributions, Plaintiff Feeley has shown he is likely
to succeed on the merits. 
 
2.               Irreparable Harm 
 
“[L]osing a job, and the income it
entails, amounts to irreparable harm.” (Costa
Mesa City Employees' Assn. v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 298,
308.) “To obtain a preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required
to present evidence of the irreparable injury or interim harm that it will
suffer if an injunction is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits.” (White v. Davis (2003)
30 Cal.4th 528, 554; see also CCP, § 526(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff Feeley
asserts that the joint venture was his family’s primary source of support and
being cut off from those distributions resulted in Plaintiff having to sell
property to pay the mortgage on the family home, legal fees, and related costs.
(Feeley Decl. ¶ 23.) Plaintiff Feeley asserts he had to rely on the financial
support of family members to meet basic expenses for living. (Ibid.) The
court finds that the fact that Plaintiff has lost his primary source of income
and has been unable to meet his basic financial obligations, such as mortgage
payments and basic necessities, Plaintiff has shown he will suffer irreparable
harm that is not fully compensable by monetary damages. Moreover, the fact that
Plaintiff Feely is currently selling his personal assets to cover expenses does
not mean that Plaintiff will be able to cover all his financial obligations
without the need to sell other assets to cover his expenses during the
remaining pendency of this action. (Pander Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  
 
In opposition,
Defendants do not allege that they will be harmed if they are forced to pay
profit distributions to Plaintiffs but assert that such relief is inappropriate
because it would require the court to engage in ongoing supervision of Vargo
PT’s operation during the pendency of litigation. The court is not persuaded by
this argument as Plaintiff’s share of the profits from the joint venture
clinics is discernable based on his ownership interest and the overall profits
of the joint venture clinics and the court’s role will be limited to whether
Defendants have complied with the injunction. Lastly, Defendants provide no
evidence that paying Plaintiff the monthly draw of $22,000.00 plus his share of
the profits in the joint venture clinics will result in the clinics or Vargo PT
becoming insolvent. 
Based on the above,
the court finds that Plaintiff Feeley has shown he will suffer irreparable harm
if the injunction is not granted. 
 
C.        Modification of the
Injunction
 
CCP § 533 provides
“[i]n any action, the court may on notice modify
or dissolve an injunction or temporary restraining order upon a showing that
there has been a material change in the facts upon which the injunction or
temporary restraining order was granted, that the law upon which the injunction
or temporary restraining order was granted has changed, or that the ends of
justice would be served by the modification or dissolution of the injunction or
temporary restraining order.”  (See also In re Butler (2018) 4
Cal.5th 728, 738, 741 [stating “flexibility is a touchstone of a court's power
to modify an injunctive order”].) 
 
The
evidence before the court reflects that Defendant Vargo decided to cut
Plaintiff off from the monthly draw and profit sharing because Plaintiff has
been unable to return to work due to health reasons. (Vargo
Decl. ¶ 24; Haj Decl. ¶ 15, Ex. 16; Compl. ¶¶ 19, 20.) Plaintiff Feeley
provides no evidence that his health has sufficiently improved so that he can
resume work at the joint venture clinics, including the work involved in managing
the joint venture clinics. Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to show that his
physical presence at the clinics is needed. 
 
Plaintiff Feeley
fails to show that he needs to be able to physically access the joint venture
clinics to obtain access to all financial accounts and to manage the clinics.
Defendants have also provided evidence that Plaintiff Feeley’s efforts to
physically access the joint venture clinics have disrupted business operations
and patient care. (Wolpert Decl. ¶¶ 4-6; Gradascevic Decl. ¶ 5-8.) 
 
Accordingly, the
court denies Plaintiffs’ request to enjoin Defendants from preventing Plaintiff
Feeley from physically accessing the joint venture clinics. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs’ request
for a preliminary injunction is granted as follows: 
 
1)    
Blocking Plaintiffs’ access
to all financial accounts associated with the joint venture clinics;
 
2)    
Preventing Plaintiffs from
withdrawing their ordinary and usual distributions from the financial accounts
for the joint venture clinics, including:
 
a)    
$621,385.00 in prior
distributions that would have been paid to Plaintiffs from January 2023 through
the present under the parties claimed joint venture agreement;
 
b)    
$22,000 per month from March
2024 until the termination of this lawsuit by judgment, dismissal, or
otherwise; and
 
c)    
If profit distributions are
made from any of the joint venture clinics, Plaintiffs’ proportionate share of
that distribution, as follows: 
 
                                              
i.         
For the Porter Ranch clinic
(defined below): 50% of any distribution; 
 
                                            
ii.         
For the Palmdale clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                          
iii.         
For the Reseda clinic
(defined below): 30% of any distribution;
 
                                          
iv.         
For the Burbank clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                            
v.         
For the San Fernando clinic
(defined below): 33% of any distribution
 
3)    
Refusing to pay any profit
distributions to Plaintiffs to the extent Defendants otherwise would have
distributed profits to the owners of the clinics but for the terms of this
order;
 
4)    
Diverting business from the
joint venture clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but
for the terms of this order; and
 
5)    
Defendants are immediately
enjoined from incurring or attributing business expenses to the joint venture
clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but for the terms
of this order.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 