  Case Number:  19STCV43813    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  14 Younan v AntounCase Background


Plaintiff alleges that she obtained
a judgment against Defendant Sameh Helima (“Helima”) back in 2006, which she
renewed in 2016. She claims that the Defendant then transferred his real property
into his mother’s name in an effort to avoid the judgment.
 
            On December
5, 2019, Plaintiff filed her Complaint to Set Aside Fraudulent Transfer against
Defendants Helima, Flora Antoun (“Antoun”), and DOES 1-25. 
 
On March 3, 2020, Defendant Helima filed
his Answer. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Defendant Antoun
filed her Answer.
 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant Pacific Hardwood
Flooring (“Pacific Hardwood”) in lieu of DOE 1. On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed Defendant Pacific Hardwood, without prejudice.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for April 2, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
Plaintiff now moves this court for
an order continuing trial, and all related deadlines, by six months. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED, in part.
Trial is continued to April 15, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is
continued to April 2, 2024, at 10:00 am. All trial counsel and any
unrepresented parties are to be present in person at the Final Status
Conference. Discovery deadlines will NOT track with the new trial date.
 
Discussion
 
California Rules of Court Rule
3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as firm. However, Rule
3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are “disfavored,” requests
should be considered on an individual basis. That subsection also includes a
non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a continuance.
 
Plaintiff brings this motion on essentially
one basis: that discovery is incomplete. This appeals to Rule 3.1332(c)(6),
which refers to an “excused inability” to obtain essential material evidence “despite
diligent efforts.” Plaintiff has not established good cause for a continuance
under that rule. 
 
This case is over four years old.
Plaintiff served Defendant Hemila in 2020, and Defendant Antoun in 2022. The
propriety of service on Defendant Antoun was established by this court’s ruling
on her motion to quash on December 15, 2022. There has been plenty of time to
conduct discovery, and over the last year there should have been some urgency
to doing so.
 
Plaintiff offers a series of
explanations as to why discovery has not been completed. The first is that
Defense counsel told Plaintiff’s counsel that he would be withdrawing from the
case, which led Plaintiff’s counsel to delay pursuit of discovery. Defense
counsel did reserve three different motions to be relieved as counsel, but
ultimately none were filed. The prospect that opposing counsel will soon be
leaving the case is not a sufficient reason to cease attempting discovery
altogether.
 
The second explanation is that
Plaintiff filed motions to compel, and that in response to those motions, Defense
counsel falsely represented to the court that responses had been served.
Plaintiff did file several motions to compel, which were heard on October 27,
2023, and denied as moot due to the service of supplemental responses. If
Plaintiff believed those responses were still inadequate, he should have met
and conferred with opposing counsel and sought an Informal Discovery
Conference. No effort to do that appears in the court’s records.
 
Finally, Plaintiff complains that
Defense has simply been stonewalling discovery by refusing to meet and confer
and refusing to provide deposition dates. Plaintiff is not without resources to
end any such stonewalling. But if it is true that Defense has been asked for
information or party depositions and has refused to provide them, Plaintiff’s
remedy at this point is a motion in limine to exclude or limit the evidence Defense
may put on.
 
This case must go to trial.
However, because the court is currently engaged in a trial which will not be
over by April 2, this case will be put over for two weeks. The court has a
series of old cases set in the coming six weeks, but this case is near the
front of the line and counsel should be ready to proceed.
 
Conclusion
 
            Failure to
conduct discovery in a case of this age does not constitute good cause for a
continuance. However, a brief continuance is in order because the court is
engaged in a trial which will not be concluded by the date on which this case
is set to commence. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED, in part. Trial is
continued to April 15, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is continued
to April 2, 2024, at 10:00 am. All trial counsel and any unrepresented parties
are to be present in person at the Final Status Conference. Discovery deadlines
will NOT track with the new trial date.