  Case Number:  21STCV12456    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  74 Jinhai Tan v. 4PX
Express USA
 
Defendant 4PX Express
USA’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
The court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. All evidentiary
objections are preserved.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff
Jinhai Tan (Plaintiff) filed an amended complaint (FAC) against Defendant 4PX
Express USA (Defendant). 
            The FAC alleges the following causes
of action among others: (1st) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy; (2nd) retaliation in violation of Government Code section 12940; (4th)
failure to provide meal and rest breaks; and (7th) retaliation in violation of
Labor Code section 1102.5.
            On December 5, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the
above four causes of action.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “¿[A] motion for summary judgment
shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)¿¿.) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (¿¿Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850¿¿.) If the moving party
carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (¿¿Ibid.¿¿) Courts “¿liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.¿” (¿¿Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389¿¿.) 
DISCUSSION
Second
Cause of Action – Retaliation in Violation of Government Code Section 12940
             Defendant contends this cause of action
fails because Plaintiff has not demonstrated that he engaged in a protected
activity under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA). To prevail on a
cause of action for retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must first show (1)
he or she engaged in a protected activity, (2) the defendant employer subjected
the plaintiff to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link between the
protected activity and the defendant employer’s action. (Iwekaogwu v. City
of Los Angeles (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 803, 814-815.) A plaintiff engages in
a protected activity if he or she “opposed any practices forbidden under
[Government Code section 12940].” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h).) 
            In support, Defendant points out
that Plaintiff does not claim he was terminated because he opposed any FEHA
violation by Defendant. (Said Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B, p. 12:6-9.) Rather, Plaintiff asserts
that he was terminated only because he disclosed to coworkers Defendant’s
potential violation of an executive order. (Said Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B, p. 11:1-5;
FAC, ¶¶ 6, 7.) Thus, Defendant has met its prima facie burden, meaning the
burden shifts to Plaintiff to create a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff
concedes Defendant’s argument. (Opposition, p. 6.) Thus, the court grants
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of this cause of action.
Fourth
Cause of Action – Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Breaks
            Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot prevail on this cause of action for several reasons. Generally, an
employer must provide employees with a 30-minute meal break for a work period
of more than five hours. (Bradley v. Networkers Internat., LLC (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1129, 1149.) An employer also has a duty to authorize and
permit rest breaks depending on the length of the shift. (Ibid.) Defendant
contends it has a policy and practice of providing employees with meal and rest
breaks. (Yun Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant’s employee manual confirms as much. (Yun
Decl., ¶ 4; Said Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. D, p. 32.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not
dispute the policy and admits he regularly took 30-minute lunches. (Said Decl.,
¶ 4; Ex. A, p. 29:1-4.) Plaintiff also admits Defendant never prevented him
from taking rest breaks. (Said Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A, pp. 29:23-25, 30:1-2.) Thus,
Defendant has met its prima facie burden. Plaintiff concedes Defendant’s
argument. (Opposition, p. 6.) Thus, the court grants Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication of this cause of action.
Seventh
Cause of Action – Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5
            Defendant asserts that this
cause of action fails because Plaintiff did not make a disclosure to an entity
or individual covered by Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b). The
statute provides in part: “An employer […] shall not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information […] to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance […] if the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses [the employer’s unlawful conduct].”
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).) 
            In support, Defendant argues
Plaintiff did not disclose Defendant’s potential violation of an executive
order to a government or law enforcement agency. Also, Plaintiff did not disclose
the potential violation to anyone with authority over Plaintiff. And finally, Plaintiff
did not disclose the information to anyone who had authority to investigate,
discover, or correct the alleged violation. Instead, Plaintiff merely shared
the information with coworkers. (Said Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A, p. 35:10-24; FAC, ¶
7.) Defendant has satisfied its prima facie burden.
            In his opposition, Plaintiff maintains
he notified coworkers of the potential violation so that they could later
compel Defendant to comply with the executive order. (Tan Decl., ¶ 3.) But
Plaintiff does not argue or provide evidence that any of the coworkers had
authority over Plaintiff. Nor does Plaintiff offer evidence that the coworkers
had authority to investigate, discover, or correct the potential violation, as
required by Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b). The court further notes
Plaintiff has not provided evidence that he and his coworkers ever brought
their concerns to Defendant’s management. And as Defendant points out, it is
unclear whether Plaintiff himself signed his supporting declaration. (See In
re Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1222-1223.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not met his burden of creating a triable issue of material fact. Therefore,
the court grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of this cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o) [“A cause of action has no merit if
[…] [o]ne or more of the elements of the cause of action cannot be separately
established […].”].) 
First
Cause of Action – Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
            Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot
prevail on this cause of action. In Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 167, 172, the court held that, “an employer’s traditional broad
authority to discharge an at-will employee may be limited by […] considerations
of public policy.” A wrongful termination claim must rest on an important
public policy embodied within a statutory or constitutional provision. (Green
v. Ralee Eng. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 66, 79.) Defendant argues that
Plaintiff bases this cause of action on Defendant’s alleged retaliation in
violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b). (FAC, ¶ 7.) According
to Defendant, because Plaintiff’s retaliation claim fails, so too does this
cause of action. (Stevenson v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 880, 904
[“[W]hen a plaintiff relies upon a statutory prohibition to support a common
law cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, the
common law claim is subject to statutory limitations affecting the nature and
scope of the statutory prohibition […].”].) The court agrees. 
            However, Plaintiff also bases this
cause of action on Defendant’s violation of the Governor’s Executive Order
N-60-20 from May 4, 2020. (FAC; Ex. B.)[1]
Administrative regulations may manifest a fundamental public policy that
supports a wrongful termination claim. (Green v. Ralee Eng. Co., supra, 19
Cal.4th at p. 82.) But Plaintiff does not specify the regulations or direct the
court to the provision in the executive order that Defendant allegedly
violated. (Id. at p. 84.) Accordingly, Plaintiff must come to the
hearing prepared to cite the regulations or provisions in Executive Order
No-60-20 that support his claim for wrongful termination in violation of public
policy.
CONCLUSION
                The
court grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the second, fourth,
and seventh causes of action. The court defers its ruling on the first cause of
action until the hearing.


