 Case Number:  22AHCV01111    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIZETTE TORRES, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01111
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING, ISSUE, OR EVIDENTIARY
   SANCTIONS, OR MONETARY SANCTIONS AND AN ORDER COMPELLING COMPLIANCE WITH
  PRIOR COURT ORDER
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

February
   13, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Lizette Torres and Omar
Torres Angulo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for an order imposing
terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions against defendant General Motors
LLC (“Defendant”) or, in the alternative, an order imposing monetary sanctions
and compelling compliance with a prior court order issued on September 15, 2023
(the “September 15 Discovery Order”). 
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has
failed to abide by the September 15 Discovery Order by providing unverified
further responses and improperly withholding documents responsive to Requests
for Production Nos. 16, 19 through 21, 32, 35, 38, 39, 42, 57, and 60 through 62,
which seek internal investigation documents, customer complaints, Defendant’s
lemon law policies and procedures, and documents supporting Defendant’s refusal
to purchase Plaintiffs’ vehicle, a 2020 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 (“Subject
Vehicle”). (Motion, p. 1.) 
Defendant filed an opposition brief, as
well as a declaration from defense counsel, Claudia Gavrilescu, on December 20,
2023. 
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief on
December 27, 2023. 
On January 4, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing and ordered the Plaintiff to submit a supplemental declaration with
an explanation for counsel’s method of calculating monetary sanctions.
Plaintiff filed this supplemental declaration on January 18, 2024. Defendant
filed a response on February 1, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
When a party refuses to obey a court
order compelling a further response to an inspection demand, the court “may
make those order that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (i).) An issue sanction will order that certain “facts shall be taken as
established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely
affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (b).) An evidentiary sanction will “prohibit any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence.” (Id., subd. (c).) A terminating sanction may entail 1)
striking the pleadings of a party misusing the discovery process; 2) staying
further proceedings by the offending party until the order is obeyed; 3)
dismissing the action against the offending party; or 4) rendering default
judgment against the offending party. (Id., subd. (d).) In lieu of, or
in addition to, an issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction ...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (j).) “Only
two facts are absolutely prerequisite to imposition of the sanction: (1) there
must be a failure to comply ... and (2) the failure must be willful.” (Liberty
Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Adm'rs, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102 [citing
Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) 
The main purpose of discovery sanctions
is to enable the interrogating party to obtain the information sought rather
than simply to punish a disobedient party or lawyer. While each case is to be
decided on its own merits, the sanctions imposed must not go beyond those
necessary to further the purposes of discovery—i.e., to compel disclosure and
to compensate for costs incurred in enforcing discovery. (Reedy v. Bussell
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1293. It is an abuse of discretion to impose
sanctions solely for punishment purposes. (Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los
Angeles (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262, 
Before imposing a “terminating”
sanction, courts should usually grant lesser sanctions: e.g., orders staying
the action until plaintiff complies, or orders declaring matters as admitted or
established if answers are not received by a specified date, often accompanied
with costs and fees to the moving party. It is only when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders that the ultimate (“doomsday”) sanctions of
dismissing the action or entering default judgment, etc. are justified. (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 796.) 
The moving party need only show the
failure to obey earlier discovery orders. Thereafter, the burden of proof
shifts to the party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory
excuse for that party's conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d
195, 201; Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
First, Plaintiffs take issue with
Defendant’s supplemental responses because they were not provided before the
deadline set by the Court, which was October 16, 2023. Instead, Defendant
served responses on October 30, 2023, 3 days after Plaintiffs sent an inquiry
and request for their supplemental responses. Second, Plaintiffs point out that
Defendant’s responses are unverified. It is well-settled law that discovery
responses served without verification “are tantamount to no response at all.” (Appleton
v. Super. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 633.) Third, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s responses which purport to comply with each request “in whole” are
disingenuous because Defendant only produced a limited set of bates-stamped
documents. 
Defendant does not address any of
Plaintiffs’ specific complaints in its opposition brief, nor did Defendant
submit a response to Plaintiffs’ separate statement. Instead, Defendant states
that Plaintiffs’ assertions are unfounded and that its supplementation has
rendered Plaintiffs’ motion moot. Defendant does not dispute that it identified
a list of the twenty-seven transmission “engineering work orders” and fourteen
electrical “engineering work orders,” but did not include the actual work
orders in its response or production, even though those are internal
investigation documents responsive to the Requests. Defendant also does not
dispute it only produced some internal investigation and root cause analysis
documents for five of the nine Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) and twelve
engineering e-mails for two of the nine TSBs. In the declaration submitted on
February 1, 2024, defense counsel reiterates that any failure to produce
responsive documents was inadvertent and that sanctions should not be imposed
because the motion is “moot.” 
“Misuses of the discovery process
include . . . [d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.) Defendant failed to obey the Court’s September 15 Discovery
Order and provided no substantive defense justifying its untimely and unverified
responses or its incomplete production. The Court concludes that monetary
sanctions would be appropriate to address Defendant’s conduct, as Plaintiffs
proposed issue and evidentiary sanctions would result in a windfall. Plaintiffs
request the Court impose issue and evidentiary sanctions that conclusively
establish that Defendant knew of the Powertrain and Electrical Defects, knew
that the Subject Vehicle suffered from the Powertrain and Electrical Defects,
knew that the Subject Vehicle was unrepairable, and knew that the Powertrain
and Electrical Defects substantially impaired the use, value, and safety of the
Subject Vehicle. These sanctions would effectively eliminate Plaintiffs’ burden
of proof to show that the Subject Vehicle was defective. Additionally, the
Court notes that no monetary sanctions have been imposed on Defendant thus far,
and the Court is more inclined to take an incremental approach to address
Defendant’s misuses of discovery. 
The Court ordered Plaintiffs to submit
a supplemental declaration which would explain how they calculated a
prospective sanction of $500 a day, why prospective sanctions were preferable,
and whether the sanctions would be paid by Defendant, defense counsel, or both.

Plaintiffs’ counsel, Joseph Liu,
declares that prospective sanctions were requested because Defendant would then
be encouraged to cure its violations of the September 15 Discovery Order. (Supp.
Liu Decl., ¶ 6, 6.) Mr. Liu states that in his experience, Defendant has a
habit of serving supplemental responses at the last minute in order to “moot”
any motion and avoid sanctions. (Liu Decl., ¶ 5.) However, it appears that
Defendant has since complied with the September 15 Discovery Order in full, so
no prospective sanctions are necessary. (Pappas Decl., ¶ 4.) Therefore, the
Court shall impose sanctions in the amount incurred in reasonable attorneys’
fees and costs to bring this motion.
Mr. Liu bills at an hourly rate of $475
and that he  spent 5.51 hours drafting
this motion for sanctions, 0.63 in reviewing the Opposition and supporting
documents, 0.65 hours in drafting the Reply, 2.1 hours reviewing Defendant’s
supplemental further responses and production served two days before the
initial hearing on January 4, 2024, 1.81 hours preparing for and attending the
hearing on January 4, 2024, and 0.4 hours in preparing this supplemental
declaration. (Liu Decl., ¶ 8.) In total, Plaintiffs request $5,272.50 be paid
by Defendant, not defense counsel, to Plaintiffs’ Counsel, Consumer Law
Experts, PC, within 14 days. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to pay $5,272.50 to Plaintiff’s counsel, Consumer Law
Experts, PC, within 14 days of this hearing. 
 
Dated
this 13th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 