  Case Number:  19GDCV00602    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JENNY ZHANG, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JANICE
   YEN, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19GDCV00602
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT ARROYO PACIFIC, INC.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
   SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   13, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
On May 14, 2019, plaintiff Jenny
Zhang (“Plaintiff”) and her son, Z.D.
filed this action against defendants Janice Yen (“J. Yen”), Leslie Yen (“L.
Yen”), Jenny Chan (“Chan”), Vivien Djeu (“Djeu”), and Steps Academy, Inc.
(“Steps”).
On
April 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC
removed Z.D.’s claims and added Arroyo Pacific, Inc. (“Arroyo Pacific”) as a Doe
defendant.
On
October 30, 2023, the Court granted defendant Arroyo Pacific’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings (“MJOP”) on Plaintiff’s 4th, 5th, 9th, 10th, and 11th
Causes of Action, and only allowed Plaintiff leave to amend her 12th Cause of
Action for accounting) and 13th Cause of Action for violation of Penal Code
section 496 against Arroyo Pacific. 
Plaintiff
filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on November 9, 2023. In violation of
the Court’s ruling on Arroyo Pacific’s MJOP, Arroyo Pacific was not removed
from the 4th, 5th, 9th, 10th, and 11th Causes of Action. Accordingly, the Court
sua sponte strikes Arroyo Pacific as a defendant from those causes of action. 
          On November 16,
2023, Arroyo Pacific filed a demurrer to the entire SAC and a motion to strike.

          On November
27, 2023, Arroyo Pacific filed a motion for summary judgment. 
          Plaintiff
submitted opposition briefs to the demurrer, motion to strike, and the summary
judgment motion on January 29, 2024.
          Arroyo
Pacific filed its reply briefs on January 30, 2024. 
          Arroyo
Pacific’s motion for summary judgment, demurrer, and motion to strike are
scheduled for hearing on the same day. In the interest of judicial economy, the
Court addresses Arroyo Pacific’s summary judgment motion first. 
II.         
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
A.  
Evidentiary
Objections
1.   
Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Declaration of Thomas P. Clarke (“Clarke Declaration” or
“Clarke Decl.”) 
Plaintiff’s objections do not adhere to
CRC rule 3.1354(b) because they are not numbered. Nevertheless, the objections
are overruled. Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Thomas P. Clarke
are not evidentiary objections, but challenges to Clarke’s testimony as factually
incomplete. These objections are overruled. 
Similarly, Plaintiff’s objection to
“[a]ny and all statements of ‘fact’” in Defendant’s memorandum of points and
authorities and separate statement is overruled. 
2.   
Arroyo
Pacific’s Objections to the Declaration of Jenny Zhang (“Zhang Declaration” or
“Zhang Decl.”)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c(q), the Court rules only on those objections to evidence that the
Court deems material to its disposition of this motion as follows: 
Objection No. 1: Overruled, this is not
improper opinion testimony or a legal conclusion, but a statement reflecting
Plaintiff’s understanding of the facts. 
Objection Nos. 2-9: Sustained,
speculation, irrelevant, improper opinion. 
Objection No. 25: Sustained, improper
opinion. 
3.   
Arroyo
Pacific’s Objections to the Declaration of Long Z. Liu (“Liu Declaration” or
“Liu Decl.”)
Objection No. 1: Overruled. 
Objection Nos. 2-6: Sustained, lacks
foundation. 
B.  
Legal
Standard
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
C.  
Discussion
California Penal Code Section 496
allows an injured party to sue for treble damages and attorney's fees against
anyone who obtains or receives or aids in obtaining or receiving any property
that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting
theft. (Penal Code § 496(a) and (c).) Plaintiff broadly alleges on information
and belief that Arroyo Pacific “stole, misappropriated, embezzled, converted,
and diverted monies from Steps’ belonging to [her]” and “obtained or received,
or aided in obtaining or receiving, monies belonging to [her] that were stolen,
misappropriated, embezzled, converted, and diverted.” (SAC, ¶¶ 165-166.) Plaintiff
alleges the theft was made through false representations and pretense and
claims that Arroyo Pacific owed her a fiduciary duty. (SAC, ¶ 167.)  
Arroyo Pacific submits the declaration
of Thomas P. Clarke (“Clarke”), who is its CEO and sole owner. Clarke founded
and registered Arroyo Pacific in 1998 and declares that Plaintiff is not and
has never been a shareholder of Arroyo Pacific, nor has she had any ownership
interest in Arroyo Pacific. (Clarke Decl., ¶¶ 1, 4.) Clarke states that neither
he nor Arroyo Pacific were involved in Plaintiff’s purchase of shares from
Vivien Djeu in June 2015 and have never knowingly received any property of
Plaintiff, much less any money or property that was stolen from her. (Clarke
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Arroyo Pacific also submits Plaintiff’s responses to special
interrogatories in which she is asked to state all facts in support of her
claim against Arroyo Pacific for violation of Penal Code section 496. (Motion, King
Decl., Exs. A-B.) In response, Plaintiff provides an irrelevant narrative
stated upon information and belief claiming that Arroyo Pacific failed to
exercise due diligence in its merger with Steps. (Id.) 
Additionally, Arroyo Pacific argues
that Plaintiff has not shown that she is entitled to an accounting. Arroyo
Pacific argues that Plaintiff has no viable underlying claims against Arroyo
Pacific and admitted that she does not have any ownership interest in Arroyo
Pacific. (Motion, King Decl., Exs. C-D.) Therefore, Arroyo Pacific contends, no
basis for an accounting exists. 
Last, Arroyo Pacific argues that
Plaintiff’s Thirteenth Cause of Action is time-barred. (Motion, pp. 8-9.)
Arroyo Pacific argues that the statute of limitations applicable to civil
penalties under Penal Code section 496 is either 1 year, under CCP section 340
(for an action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture), or 3 years, based
on section 338 (for an action based on “taking, detaining, or injuring goods or
chattels, including an action for the specific recovery of personal property.”
Regardless of which statute of limitations period applies, Plaintiff had to
file her cause of action before November 16, 2022, which is well before the
date of the FAC which first named Arroyo Pacific.
Based on the foregoing, Arroyo Pacific
has met its moving burden to show that: (1) no triable issues of material fact
exist and that Plaintiff cannot prevail on her Twelfth and Thirteenth Causes of
Action against Arroyo Pacific and (2) an affirmative defense exists to
Plaintiff’s Thirteenth Cause of Action. 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff fails to establish a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to an accounting because she became a
“part owner” of Arroyo Pacific after Steps entered into a “merger agreement”
with Arroyo Pacific and that her Thirteenth Cause of Action is not time-barred
because Arroyo Pacific “continues to conceal [her] rightful ownership of
[Arroyo Pacific].” Plaintiff refers to a copy of the Steps-Arroyo agreement,
which she characterizes as a merger. (Opposition, Ex. D.) However, in this
agreement, Steps is given the option to purchase Arroyo Pacific; Plaintiff
cites to no authority showing that the option agreement confers on Plaintiff an
“ownership” interest in Arroyo Pacific. (Id.) Plaintiff also appears to
argue that Arroyo Pacific is wrongly retaining $203,000 which she paid for her
shares in Steps in 2015. (Opp, p. 15.) However, there is no evidence that
Arroyo Pacific received any of this money which was paid directly to Djeu in
exchange for shares in Steps, and there is no evidence that Djeu paid that
money to Steps or Arroyo. 
          Plaintiff requests
a continuance to depose individuals at Arroyo Pacific pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(h). In her ex parte application for a continuance,
Plaintiff stated that Thomas Clarke was deposed on February 5, 2024, but Plaintiff
identified no particular testimony that would be relevant to supporting her
opposition brief. Furthermore, this case was initiated on May 14, 2019, and
Plaintiff has had adequate time to conduct all necessary discovery to support
her case. Therefore, the request for a continuance is denied. 
In light o the foregoing, Arroyo
Pacific’s demurrer and motion to strike are taken off calendar because its
motion for summary judgment is granted, 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Arroyo Pacific’s motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED. The demurrer and motion to strike is taken off calendar. 
Dated this 13th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 