 Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS ACE HARDWARE CORPORATION AND THE GROMMET’S MOTION
   TO REOPEN NON-EXPERT DISCOVERY 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   13, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is a products liability case involving noise cancelling earplugs (the “Subject
Product”). Defendants Ace Hardware Corporation and The Grommet (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to reopen non-expert discovery on January 18,
2024, after the trial date of January 8, 2024, was continued to May 13, 2024
and the parties stipulated that only expert discovery deadlines would be related
to the new trial date. Based on the former trial date, fact discovery closed on
December 8, 2024. 
Plaintiff
Martina A. Silas (“Plaintiff”) filed an opposition brief on January 30, 2024.
Defendants
filed a reply brief on February 7, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Except as otherwise provided, any party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).) 
The court shall take into consideration
any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1)
the necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subd. (c).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants request an order reopening
percipient discovery to conduct an inspection of the Subject Product,
potentially depose additional treating doctors identified in
recently-subpoenaed medical records, depose Plaintiff regarding any issues
discussed in those medical records, and pursue additional discovery pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.640. 
          With respect
to the product inspection, Defendants most recently demanded an inspection of
the Subject Product to take place on December 4, 2023. (Declaration of Emily F.
Burdine (“Burdine Decl.”), Ex. E.) Plaintiff agreed to attend the inspection
but failed to appear, purportedly because Plaintiff could not find parking.
(Burdine Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendants state that they intend to file a motion to
compel the inspection of the Subject Product and request sanctions to recover
the cost of expert fees incurred from their expert’s travel from San Francisco
to Los Angeles. 
          Plaintiff
argues that discovery should not be reopened for this purpose because
Defendants did not act diligently throughout this action. After the Court ruled
on Defendant’s motion for an order compelling the inspection of the Subject
Product on September 20, 2023, Defendants served a demand on October 19, 2023. This
is not an extraordinary delay in action and, when weighed against the prejudice
that Defendants would face without an inspection, is insufficient for the Court
to conclude that discovery should not be reopened. 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendants
are “jurisdictionally barred” from filing a motion to compel the testing
because she served a verified response and objection on November 21, 2023, in
which she stated that no testing with an ear and cheek simulator or other
testing device would be allowed. But Plaintiff’s objection did not limit all
testing; rather, Plaintiff stated that she would produce the Subject Product
for “visual inspection and touching, and inspection of the ear tips, and
photographing the items” as long as the audio forensic expert is “properly
identified prior to the inspection” by providing Plaintiff with the expert’s
full name and business card. (Burdine Decl., Ex. F.)  There is no deadline to file a motion ordering
compliance as agreed to by a party in response to discovery. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.320.) The Court additionally notes that Plaintiff fails to explain why
she ultimately did not follow through with the inspection on December 4, 2023,
and agrees that Defendants should have the opportunity to compel her compliance
based on her statements made in response to their inspection demand and seek
sanctions.  
          Second,
Defendants argue that reopening discovery is necessary because of information
obtained from Plaintiff’s medical providers. On December 8, 2023, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas Plaintiff’s medical records from
her medical providers, including East Valley ENT, Dr. Warren Line, Auditory
Processing Centers, The Towers Audiology Center, and AMC Pharmacy. The Court
rejected Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants were barred from subpoenaing
these providers because of an order issued on August 16, 2022, which quashed Defendants’
previous subpoenas as overbroad. The Court ordered Defendants to instruct the
custodian of records for these medical providers to redact Plaintiff’s date of
birth and Social Security number from any writings produced. Defendants are
currently working to obtain these records and argue that fact discovery needs
to be reopened if additional medical providers are identified in these records or
if Plaintiff needs to be deposed about the information discovered in these
records. (Burdine Decl., ¶ 12.)  
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants are jurisdictionally barred from
compelling her attendance at a deposition because Plaintiff had agreed to a
remote deposition for April 7, 2023, but defense counsel failed to provide her
with the remote log-in information and obtained a certificate of
non-appearance. (Opp., p. 7.) Plaintiff contends that any motion to compel her
deposition had to be filed within 60 days and by June 6, 2023, under CCP
2025.480(b).) But the 60-day deadline provided in section 2025.480 applies only
to a deponent who “fails to answer any question or [] produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing.” Here, Plaintiff stated
that she would appear, but failed to do so. Therefore, CCP section 2025.450 (a)
applies because she “fail[ed] to appear for examination.” Even if Plaintiff’s
failure to attend was due to a miscommunication or defense counsel’s
ineptitude, some distinction between a motion to compel an answer to a question
asked at a deposition and a motion to compel the actual deposition must be
discerned from this pair of statutes. 
          Lastly, Plaintiff’s
position also ignores that the Code of Civil Procedure allows for good cause
shown, a party to seek leave to take subsequent depositions of a natural
person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (a).) It is undisputed that
Plaintiff has not yet been deposed in this case but even assuming that her deposition
was already “taken”, this does not prevent the Court from ordering her to
attend and testify at a second deposition. A second deposition is particularly
justified to explore Plaintiff’s contentions regarding punitive damages and additional
information discovered in the documents produced by Plaintiff’s medical
records. 
          In light of
the foregoing, the Court is amenable to reopening non-expert discovery so long
as it will not require a continuance of the trial date. Since Defendants
represent that trial will not be delayed if the discovery cut-off is scheduled
for April 12, 2024, Defendants’ motion to reopen non-expert discovery is
granted.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED. The
non-expert discovery cutoff is set for April 12, 2024. Trial remains scheduled
for May 13, 2024. 
Dated
this 13th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 