 Case Number:  23AHCV01338    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



INCENTAX, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARTINI
   AKPOVI PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01338
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

February
   13, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 12,
 2023, this action was filed by Incentax,
 LLC (“Plaintiff”) against Martini
 Akpovi Partners, LLP (“Martini LLP”), Christopher Passmore (“Passmore”), Steve
 Martini (“Martini”), and Withum Smith + Brown, PC (“Withum”). Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) aiding and
abetting breach of fiduciary duty, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (5) intentional interference
with contractual relations (6) unjust enrichment, (7) gross negligence, (8)
intentional interference with prospective economic relationships. (9) negligent
interference with prospective economic relationships. 
Plaintiff alleges that it formed a
joint venture with Martini LLP, Passmore, and Steve Martini to provide tax
incentive services through a limited liability company, MAP Tax Credits, LLC
(“MTC”). Plaintiff alleges that Passmore, Martini, and Martini LLP used the
success of MTC to sell Martini LLP to Withum, which sale effectively shut down
the joint venture. 
On
August
 14, 2023, Martini LLP, Passmore, and Martini (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay action. 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief and objection on November
 1, 2023. 
Defendants
filed a reply brief on November 7, 2023. 
On November 15, 2023, after oral
argument, the Court continued the hearing on this motion so that the parties
could file supplemental briefs. Defendants filed a supplemental brief on
December 6, 2023; Plaintiff filed one on January 10, 2024. 
On January 29, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing once more so the parties could file supplemental briefs
summarizing the oral arguments made at the hearing. Supplemental briefs were
filed by both parties on February 5, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties
have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see
also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Validity
and Scope of the Arbitration Agreement 
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) 
MTC’s Operating Agreement provides the
following: 
14.10 Arbitration. Except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement, any controversy between the Members or Managers
arising out of this Agreement shall be submitted before a retired judge or
appellate justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los Angeles,
California. The costs of the arbitration, including any JAMS administration
fee, the arbitrator's fee, and costs for the use of facilities during the
hearings, shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration. Attorneys'
fees may be awarded to the prevailing or most prevailing party at the discretion
of the arbitrator. The provisions of Sections 1282.6, 1283, and 1283.05 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure apply to the arbitration. The arbitrator
shall not have any power to alter, amend, modify or change any of the terms of this
Agreement nor to grant any remedy which is either prohibited by the terms of this
Agreement, or not available in a court of law." 
 
(Lanson
Dec., Exh. 1.) 
          Arbitrability
Defendants argue that the arbitrator
must decide whether Plaintiff’s claims are arbitrable because there is a
delegation clause. While courts often decide issues of “arbitrability,” the
“'parties can agree to arbitrate ‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’ such
as whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement
covers a particular controversy.” (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 880, 891, quoting Rent–A–Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69.) To establish this exception, it must be shown by
“clear and unmistakable” evidence that the parties intended to delegate the
issue to the arbitrator. (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 68, 70, fn.1; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds (2002) 537
U.S. 79, 84; see also Peleg v. Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc. (2012) 204 Cal.
App. 4th 1425, 1439-1445.) 
          Here, the
arbitration provision states any controversy between members or managers
arising out of the Operating Agreement will be submitted “before a retired
judge or appelate [sic] justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los
Angeles, California.” In turn, Rule 11(b) of JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration
Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) states that “Jurisdictional and arbitrability
disputes, including disputes over the formation, existence, validity,
interpretation or scope of the agreement under which Arbitration is sought, and
who are proper Parties to the Arbitration, shall be submitted to and ruled on
by the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator has the authority to determine jurisdiction
and arbitrability issues as a preliminary matter.”
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
there is no “clear and unmistakable” delegation of arbitrability to the
arbitrator. Plaintiff claims that the arbitration agreement only states that
the arbitrator would be affiliated with JAMS and that JAMS would be the
arbitral provider, not that the arbitration would be conducted in accordance
with JAMS’ Rules. (Opp., p. 11.) In its supplemental opposition, Plaintiff
emphasizes that the Operating Agreement does not state that the arbitration
will be conducted in accordance with, pursuant to, or under JAMS Rules. (Plfts.
Supp. Brief, pp. 8-9.) Plaintiff argues that the specific reference to the JAMS-affiliated
arbitrator and the JAMS administration fee show that if the parties intended
for JAMS’ rules to apply, that it would also be explicitly referred to. (Id.)

This ambiguity in determining whether
JAMS’ Rules were intended to apply, let alone JAMS’ Rule 11(b), leads the Court
to conclude that there is no “clear and unmistakable” evidence that the parties
agreed to delegate the issue of arbitrability. 
The Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
The next question is determining which
of Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration provision. As
recited above, the Operating Agreement provides that “any controversy between
the Members or Managers arising out of this Agreement” shall be submitted to
arbitration. 
In its supplemental brief and second
supplemental brief, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s derivative claims on
behalf of MTC must be arbitrated. Defendants cite to California Corporations
Code section 17701.10, which provides that a limited liability company’s
operating agreement “governs . . . [r]elations among the members as members and
between the members and the limited liability company.” (Defs. Supp.
Brief, p. 3.) Defendants also compare the California Revised Uniform Limited
Liability Company Act (the “Act”) with similar statutes in Washington and
Delaware. Defendants rely on cases from Washington and Delaware courts
interpreting their respective statutory schemes and contend that here,
Plaintiff, not MTC, is the real party in interest in a derivative action. The
Court has reviewed these cited cases and finds them unpersuasive considering
California law and the language of the Operating Agreement. 
In its supplemental opposition brief, Plaintiff
asserts that the derivative claims belong to MTC, which is a separate legal
entity defined as “Company” in the Operating Agreement and not included in the
definitions of “Member” or “Manager.” (Pltf. Supp. Brief, p. 4-5.) Section
14.11 of the Operating Agreement addresses the issue of attorney fees “[i]n the
event that any dispute between the Company and the Member or among the Managers
or Members should result in litigation or arbitration.” This distinction
between a “dispute between the Company and the Member” and a dispute “among the
Managers or Members” belies Defendants’ claim that the Operating Agreement
contemplated arbitration all claims including derivative ones. Plaintiff also
argues that the out-of-state cases cited by Defendants should be disregarded
because they conclude, in contrast to California law, that a member bringing a
derivative claim is the real party in interest. (Plft. Supp. Brief, p. 7.) 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s derivative claims
brought on behalf of MTC. 
Who May Compel Arbitration
Next, Defendants have not shown that an
arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Withum, or Plaintiff and
Martini, because neither Withum nor Martini are parties to the Operating
Agreement. Although Withum has expressed a willingness to arbitrate, Plaintiff
is not required to arbitrate its claims against Withum and cannot be compelled
to do so. Therefore, the motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against Withum and Martini, is also DENIED.
Lastly, with respect to its claims
against Passmore and Martini LLP, Plaintiff argues that it should be allowed to
conduct limited discovery regarding Passmore and Martini LLP’s assignment of
their ownership rights to Withum to determine whether Passmore and Martini LLP retain
the right to enforce the arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff seeks limited discovery of “the
transaction documentation between Withum and Moving Defendants to establish
whether an assignment actually occurred or whether under Section 10.5, an
assignment was deemed to have occurred.” Section 10.5 states, in relevant part:
For purposes of this Article 10, any transfer
or assignment of any direct or indirect ownership or other interests in a
Member that (taking into account any prior such transfers or assignments)
results in such Member being controlled by a Person or Persons other than the
Person or Persons that control such Member on the date hereof, shall be deemed
an assignment of the Ownership Interest in the Company of such Member and
therefore subject to all of the restrictions and provisions of this Article 10.
 
Plaintiff contends that when Martini
LLP assigned its interests to Withum, Martini LLP ceased to be a Member of MTC
LLC and does not have the right to compel arbitration. In addition, Plaintiff
claims that Passmore would no longer have the right to compel arbitration if he
ceased to be a Manager of MTC LLC, since under section 8.1(a) of the Operating
Agreement, Passmore would only serve as a Manager “at the pleasure of the
designating Member [Martini LLP].” 
Plaintiff argues that the Operating
Agreement expressly contemplates a circumstance where a membership interest is
assigned by a member (and thus divesting that person or entity of its
membership interest) but the assignee has not acquired the full legal rights as
a member. Under Section 10.6, the would-be assignee only receives and is
entitled to receive the economic interests of the assignor until the conditions
of Section 10.2 are satisfied, i.e., both Managers provide written consent. Therefore,
according to Plaintiff, Withum, despite having been assigned Martini LLP’s
ownership interest in MTC LLC, cannot be considered a Member of MTC LLC
entitled to Martini LLP’s full rights under the Operating Agreement, including
the right to compel arbitration, whereas Martini LLP is no longer a Member and has
lost the right to compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff’s argument makes sense when
explaining why Withum is not yet a Member with the right to compel arbitration,
but it does not lead to the conclusion that Martini LLP has been “divested” of its
rights and is no longer a Member. Section 9.3 of the Operating
Agreement states: “Except as expressly provided in
this Agreement, no Member shall have the right or power to voluntarily withdraw
from the Company.” Section 10.1 states that “[a] Member may not sell, assign,
transfer, mortgage or otherwise, encumber or suffer or permit any third party
to sell, assign, transfer, mortgage or otherwise, encumber, whether voluntarily
or by operation of law, all or any part of its Ownership Interest in the
Company without the prior written consent of the Managers, which consent may be
granted or withheld in the Managers' sole and absolute discretion.” Sections 12.1
and 12.2 discuss the circumstances which would cause MTC LLC to dissolve,
including “30 days’ written notice by a Member that it desires to cease
participation in the company” and [t]he occurrence of any other event that
terminates the Manager’s continued membership as Manager in the Company.” 
These three contractual provisions suggest that a Member may not
assign its interests – other than the rights to “Profits, Losses, Cash Available
for Distribution and other distributions to the Member pursuant to this
Agreement” identified in section 10.6 – without prior written consent of the
Managers. (Section 10.1) Accordingly, Martini LLP would retain the remainder of
its interests and rights – including the right to compel arbitration – until
both Members consented to an assignment. There does not seem to be any dispute
that Plaintiff did not consent to an assignment to Withum. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims against Martini LLP and Passmore is GRANTED.
B.  
Whether the Action is
Stayed
The remainder of the action is stayed pursuant to section 1281.2(d).
Plaintiff’s individual claims and derivative claims are identical and there is
a possibility of conflicting rulings on common issues of law and fact if the
case were to proceed in two forums.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED in part with respect to Plaintiff’s individual claims against Martini
LLP and Passmore. The motion is DENIED in part as to Plaintiff’s derivative
claims on behalf of MTC and Plaintiff’s claims against Withum and Martini. The
action is STAYED pending completion of arbitration.
 The
Court sets a status conference for August 13, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department
3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. The parties are to submit a joint report no later
than 5 days before the date of the hearing. 

 
Dated
this 13th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 