 Case Number:  23SMCV06010    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  I The unopposed motion to vacate default filed on April 8,
2024, is GRANTED.  Defendant’s theory is
that there was a failure to serve properly or provide defendant with proper
notice.  Defendant contends that there
are other cases going forward that ought to be allowed to be litigated before
this case goes forward.  The court is
persuaded at least that default is improper. 
Further, there is at least some indication that defendant was not served
properly.  She states she never received
service at the listed address and that her statement is corroborated by video
evidence.  The court is in receipt of the
papers filed May 21, 2024.  They are
DISREGARDED as untimely.  But, as just
stated, even so the motion is granted.
 
Accordingly, the default and default judgment are
VACATED.  The writ of possession is
RECALLED. 
 
The court also has some concern that plaintiff did not
disclose the many other actions pending in this court or on appeal or in other
courts.  They all seem to deal with the
property here at issue and they might well be related.  Further, if title to property is at issue, an
unlawful detainer action will not be able to proceed using the special
procedures unique to that cause of action. 
The court will not speculate on plaintiff’s reasons, but it does believe
that all of that should have been disclosed as it does affect which court ought
to decide what and when.  (Shaw v.
Superior Court (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 245.) 
The court is inclined to order that defendant file an answer within five
court days.  Other than that, the court
is inclined to STAY the case pending a hearing on the effect of the other cases
on this one, which the court will set. 
The court notes that California follows the doctrine of exclusive
concurrent jurisdiction.  That doctrine
may well apply here.  Any party may move
to lift the stay on noticed motion and the court will consider such a
request.  Court to give notice.
 
The parties are ORDERED to meet and confer to discuss
service issues.  The court STRONGLY urges
the parties to agree to electronic service. 
That way, there will be no questions. 
The metadata associated with electronic service will provide proof that
the document was sent on a particular date and time and also if it was
delivered and if it was opened.  (Opening
the document does not matter; it is the delivery that does.)  This will avoid future issues concerning
whether a document was or was not served or served timely.  Pending such an agreement, the court ORDERS
that in addition to whatever other service method is chosen, a courtesy copy of
the document be served electronically. 
The court ORDERS THE PARTIES TO EXCHANGE email service addresses no
later than 10:00 am on Friday, May 24, 2024.