 Case Number:  22SMCV02025    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to vacate default for failure to serve the
summons.  The motions are both MOOT.  To the extent that the motion to vacate
remains live, though, the court would GRANT the motion. 
 
Plaintiff filed a breach of contract action against various
defendants, two of whom are Benson and Hicks, the moving parties here.  Default was entered on 8/28/23.  The motion to quash is MOOT because plaintiff
re-served these defendants.  The court
believes that by re-serving these defendants, plaintiff has also re-started the
clock and given them the right to answer, rendering the motion to vacate MOOT
as well.  But assuming the court is wrong
on mootness, the court will address the merits. 
The court notes that default can be set aside by timely motion showing
excusable neglect or the like. 
Defendants here argue that although the proofs of service appear proper
on their face, defendants were never in fact served and had no notice of the
action.  Defendants were served via
substitute service at 12130 Millenium Drive. 
But they note that the address is a We Works co-working space that they
do not use and that they never had any connection with that address.  Benson did use a We Works space, but the
relationship ended in January 2020.  Both
defendants attest that they did not live or work at any of the other addresses
on the process server’s declaration of diligence.
 
Plaintiff argues that there is no basis to grant the motion
because no draft answer was attached to the motion.  Plaintiff also claims that service was
proper.  Plaintiff states that the
receptionist at the Millenium address said defendants were “not here” but did
not indicate that they did not work there at all.  Plaintiff states that it hired a private
investigator to ascertain whether the address was proper at the Jefferson
address.  But the Jefferson address does
not cover the problem with the Millenium address, and plaintiff has no ability
to comment on what the receptionist meant. 
In any event, the court believes that there is enough here to grant the
motion, especially in light of the strong policy favoring resolution on the
merits.  That said, plaintiff is right
about the lack of an answer.  But rather
than go through this exercise again, the court will exercise its discretion to
allow defendants to file an answer (but not a cross-complaint or motion) within
2 court days of today.  If defendants
want to file a cross-action, they must seek leave of court. 