  Case Number:  22SMCV00521    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  I This is the continuation of the ex parte application
to continue the trial made by newly-added defendant CAIC.  CAIC notes that it was recently added and
only recently answered.  It states that
it may need to do discovery and will want to bring a summary judgment motion
but cannot do so given the current trial schedule.  CAIC also notes that plaintiff was aware that
Mercury took the position that CAIC was the actual carrier as early as November
2022, but that plaintiff delayed in naming and serving CAIC for a long
time.  Plaintiff opposed the application,
but the court had not read the opposition at the time of the prior
hearing.  The matter was continued to
allow the court to review the opposition and to allow plaintiff to submit some
limited additional documents.
 
The court believes it must move the trial date.  While plaintiff raises some interesting
points, the fact remains that as of November 2022—over a year before CAIC was
named—Mercury’s counsel told plaintiff that it was suing the wrong party.  CAIC was under no obligation in intervene in
the action and, having provided plaintiff with that information, Mercury was
under no obligation to explain further or provide any additional information
other than through formal discovery. 
Plaintiff could have, and perhaps should have, simply named CAIC at that
time to avoid any problem.  It was
unlikely that CAIC would complain that plaintiff lacked any good reason to
believe that CAIC was the carrier given Mercury’s representation and the fact
that CAIC and Mercury are represented by the same lawyer.  That would have protected plaintiff whichever
carrier was the right one.  Of course,
Mercury’s goal was to be dismissed. 
Plaintiff, however, was under no duty to dismiss.  Plaintiff was not faced with the prospect of
only being able to sue one or the other but not both.  Plaintiff could have brought in CAIC promptly
and sorted it out later.
 
Plaintiff also contends that Mercury is in fact the right
defendant.  Maybe so, but this motion
does not change that.  If Mercury is the
right defendant, then it is.  If Mercury
has no basis for summary judgment, then there is no basis for it and the motion
will be denied.  If CAIC is the wrong
party, then Mercury will be the right one (one would think).  If CAIC is the right party but can get out of
the case on statute of limitations grounds, so be it.  If it cannot, then it will have to stand
trial or settle.  Either way, we are
where we are and CAIC has rights. 
Plaintiff has, prudently, decided to hedge its bets and sue both CAIC
and Mercury.  That is certainly
plaintiff’s right and it is a very reasonable thing to do under the
circumstances.  But having waited until
the last minute to bring in a new party, plaintiff must bear the burden of that
timing decision.  Whether or not in a
perfect world Mercury’s counsel would have given a more complete response to
plaintiff’s request for more information in 2022, the fact remains that CAIC
was only recently added.
 
It could well be that, as plaintiff claims, there is no
additional discovery that needs to be taken (or at least not a lot of it).  Indeed, it is likely that such is the
case.  The court would assume that all
will stipulate that the discovery taken by Mercury can be used by CAIC and that
the discovery taken of Mercury can be used as well to the extent otherwise
allowable under the Evidence Code.  But
there is no getting around the summary judgment problem.  CAIC has the right to bring a summary
judgment motion and it cannot do so with the current trial date.
 
Therefore, the court will GRANT the application and will
discuss with the parties a new trial date. 
Given the opposition, though, the court is unlikely to put this case at
the back of the line and will instead try to find an earlier date for the
trial. 