 Case Number:  23NWCV03490    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  C Heon Jik Lee vs Leticia
Hernandez
Case No.: 23NWCV03490
Hearing Date: October 15, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#11
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Leticia Hernandez’s Motion to Set
Aside Default is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to file and serve the proposed
Answer within 10 days.   
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
In a Complaint filed on October 30, 2023, Plaintiff Heon
Jik Lee (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on February 6, 2022, Defendant Leticia Hernandez
(“Defendant”) made an illegal U-turn and struck Plaintiff’s vehicle.  The sole cause of action is for
negligence.  
Default was entered against Defendant on December 11, 2023.
Default judgment was entered on March 26, 2024.  
On July 26, 2024, Defendant moved to set aside default and
default judgment on the grounds that Defendant, a non-English speaker, did not
understand the significance of the summons and complaint with which she was
served, and she did not receive actual notice of the default and default
judgment.
On July 31, 2024, Defendant applied ex parte to advance the
hearing for the motion to set aside default. 
The court set a hearing date for October 15, 2024.  
On September 30, 2024,
Defendant filed an Amended Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment.  Defendant attached a declaration by
Defendant’s former attorney which alleged that Plaintiff improperly served the
summons and complaint upon Defendant even though Plaintiff’s counsel knew Defendant
was represented by counsel.  

On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental
Opposition to Defendant’s Amended Motion. 
Plaintiff argues that the Court should disregard the Amended Motion
because it is untimely in two respects: 1) it was served more than 180 after
default judgment was entered, and 2) it was served less than 16 court days
before the hearing date. 
On October 8, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply.  
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
“[A]ll moving and supporting papers shall be served and
filed at least 16 court days before the hearing … All papers opposing a motion
so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at
least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the
hearing. The court, or a judge thereof, may prescribe a shorter time.” (CCP §
1005, subd. (b).) 
Discussion
On July 26, 2024, Defendant moved to set aside default and
default judgment on the grounds that Defendant, a
non-English speaker, did not understand the significance of the summons and
Complaint with which she was served, and she did not receive actual notice of
the default and default judgment.  
In a declaration attached to the motion, Defendant claims
that Plaintiff caused the accident by speeding through an intersection with a
non-functioning traffic signal and failing to yield to Defendant’s vehicle.
(Hernandez Decl., ¶3.) After the accident, Defendant sought legal assistance
from Abraham Apaku who assisted Defendant with contacting insurance companies.
Defendant believed the matter had been resolved. (Id., ¶6.) More than a
year later, a man delivered some papers written in English which Defendant
believed were court-related. (Id., ¶7.) Defendant left a message with
Mr. Apaku’s office, but she did not receive a response. (Id., ¶8.) In
June 2024, Defendant received a call from attorney Chris Fleissner, whose law
firm had been retained by Defendant’s insurance company to represent Defendant.
(Id., ¶10.) Defendant was surprised when Fleissner informed her that
default judgment had been entered. (Ibid.)
On September 30, 2024, Defendant filed an Amended Motion to
Set Aside Default and Default Judgment. 
In the Amended Motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Abraham K.
Apraku, Defendant’s former attorney. 
Apraku states that he was retained by Defendant to represent her in
connection with her bodily injury claims arising from the February 6, 2022
accident. (Apraku Decl., ¶3.) On or about September 19, 2022, Apraku obtained a
settlement of Defendant’s personal injury claims. (Id., ¶5.) Apraku
reached the settlement with Plaintiff through Howard B. Kim, Plaintiff’s former
attorney, and Brian Lee, Plaintiff’s current attorney. (Id., ¶6.) On
June 10, 2024, Lee contacted Apraku and demanded payment of $143,000, the sum
awarded to Plaintiff in a default judgment. (Id., ¶7.) This was the
first time Apraku learned of Plaintiff’s lawsuit against Defendant despite
having represented Defendant with Lee’s knowledge.  Apraku had not been served with any documents
relating to the case. (Id., ¶8.) Apraku immediately tried to contact
Defendant, but he was unable to reach her. (Id., ¶10.)
The Amended Motion also includes a declaration by Defendant’s
current attorney, Christopher Fleissner, who states that on or about June 6,
2024, Lee advised Defendant’s insurer that a default judgment of approximately
$143,000.00 had been entered against Defendant and Lee requested that Apraku
arrange for payment of that sum. (Fleissner Decl., ¶2.) 
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental
Opposition to Defendant’s Amended Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment.  Plaintiff argues that the
Court should disregard the Amended Motion because it is untimely in two
respects: 1) it was served more than 180 after default judgment was entered,
and 2) it was served less than 16 court days before the hearing date. 
The Court exercises its discretion to consider the Amended
Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment.  Fleissner states the original motion was
amended solely to include Apraku’s declaration, which Fleissner did not receive
until September 19, 2024.  Fleissner had
been trying for several weeks to contact Apraku. (Supp. Fleissner Decl., ¶2.) Fleissner
asserts he was unable to file the Amended Motion earlier because he was serving
as a juror. (Id., ¶¶3-4.) Based on this, the Court exercises its
discretion to consider Defendant’s Amended Motion despite its lack of
compliance with CCP § 1005.  Plaintiff
has responded to the Amended Motion, and Plaintiff has not argued prejudice or
requested a continuance.  
Plaintiff argues that the Amended Motion fails to comply
with time requirements of CCP § 473(b). 
However, the Amended Motion does not assert any new grounds for relief;
it merely provides additional context to Defendant’s version of events leading
up to filing the original motion. 
Therefore, the Court views the Amended Motion as a supplement to the
original motion.  Because the original
motion was filed within six months of default judgment, it is timely.  
On the merits, the Court determines that Defendant has adequately
shown that her failure to timely answer was due to mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  Defendant
timely moved to set aside default and default judgment after engaging with two
attorneys to assist her in initiating/defending claims relating to the
accident.  “The law strongly favors trial
and disposition on the merits. Therefore, any doubts in applying [CCP §
473] must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. When the
moving party promptly seeks relief and there is no prejudice to the opposing
party, very slight evidence is required to justify relief.”  (Mink v. Superior Court (1998) 2
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1343.)  
Accordingly, the Motion to Set Aside Default and Default
Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ordered to file and serve the proposed Answer within 10 days.  
 
 
 
 
 
 