 Case Number:  23NWCV02181    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  C SUNRUN INSTALLATION SERVICES,
INC. vs ROSA RODRIGUEZ
Case No.: 23NWCV02181
Hearing Date: October 15, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#9 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Sunrun Installation Services, Inc.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiff Sunrun Installation Services,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Rosa Rodirguez (“Defendant”) for breach of
contract, among other causes of action, relating to the installation of solar
panels on Defendant’s property.  The
Complaint alleges that on or about August 13, 2021, Plaintiff had “completed
its initial installation of the Solar System at the Subject Property; however,
Plaintiff was not able to make the Solar System fully operational as Defendant
refused to cooperate with and/or provide Plaintiff and/or its contractor with
further access to the Subject Property so that Plaintiff could not obtain final
inspection and permission to operate the Solar System.” (Complaint, ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendant defaulted under the terms of the Contract
and is in breach by failing to provide Plaintiff with the information,
approvals and/or access to the Subject Property in order make the Solar System
fully operational.” (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff requests damages in the amount
of $75,326.00. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff moves for Summary Judgment on the grounds that no
triable issue of material fact exists regarding whether Defendant breached her
contract with Plaintiff.  
No Reply has been filed as of October 11, 2024.  
Legal Standard 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute”¿(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar); Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c (c).)¿ A plaintiff reaches its burden on summary judgment by
showing prima facie evidence for each element of its cause of action.¿
Code Civ. Proc, § 437c (p); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).¿ 
 
The
burden will then shift to the defendant to show the existence of a triable
issue of material fact for at least one element of the cause of action at
issue.¿(Ibid.) 
 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment or summary adjudication and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”¿(Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.)¿However, if all inferences reasonably deducible from the submitted
evidence are uncontradicted by other inferences and there is no triable issue
as to any material fact, the moving party is entitled to summary adjudication as
a matter of law.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c (c); Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
Discussion 
The elements for a claim of breach of contract are: (1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
Plaintiff argues that there are no triable issue of
material fact as to whether a contract was executed between parties and whether
Defendant defaulted under the terms of the Contract by failing to provide
Plaintiff with the information, approvals and/or access to the Subject Property
in order make the Solar System fully operational.
In support of the Motion for Summary Judgment, Plaintiff
presents evidence of the following:
·       
On or about June 20, 2021, Defendant, for
valuable consideration, made and executed a Sunrun BrightSave Agreement dated
June 21, 2021. (SSUF No. 1.) 
·       
Defendant promised to purchase from Plaintiff
all energy produced by a certain photovoltaic solar system (hereinafter the
“Solar System”) installed on the real property commonly known as 648 West 16th
Street, San Bernardino, CA 92405 from Plaintiff at the rates set forth in the
Contract. (SSUF No. 1.)
·       
Pursuant to the Contract, Plaintiff would,
design, install, retain ownership of, maintain and monitor the Solar System for
the term of the Contract. (SSUF No.2.) 
·       
On or about August 13, 2021, Plaintiff had
completed its initial installation of the Solar System at the Subject Property,
however Plaintiff was not able to make the Solar System fully operational as
Defendant refused to cooperate with and/or provide Plaintiff and/or its
contractor with further access to the Subject Property so that Plaintiff could
not obtain final inspection and permission to operate the Solar System. (SSUF No.
3.) 
·       
On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff served upon
Defendant a Notice of Material Breach (“Breach Notice”) pursuant to Sections G
10(a)(i)(6) and G 12 of the Contact putting the Defendant on notice that she
was in breach of Section E(5)(a) for failure to provide Plaintiff and/or its
contractor access to the Subject Property for the purpose completing final
inspection of and obtaining permission to operate the Solar System, and to
remedy the breach on or before August 12, 2022 or Plaintiff would seeks [sic]
its remedies under the Contract. (SSUF No. 5.) 
·       
Defendant did not timely cure the breach in
response to Plaintiff’s Breach Notice as Defendant did not cooperate with or
provide Plaintiff with access to the Subject Property to obtain final
inspection and permission to operate to make the Solar System fully
operational. (SSUF No. 6.) 
·       
Plaintiff has performed all conditions on its
part to be performed under the Contract. (SSUF No. 7.)
·       
Pursuant to Section G 10(a)(ii) of the
Contract, upon default by Defendant, Plaintiff is entitled to certain remedies,
including, but not limited to, terminating the Contract and requiring the
Defendant to pay to Plaintiff a payment equal to the prepayment of all future
estimated monthly payments to be made during the initial term as set forth in
exhibit A to the Contract (the “Make Whole Payment”). The Contract further
provides that if Plaintiff elects to remove the Solar System, then in addition
to the Make Whole Payment, Defendant will be obligated to pay to Plaintiff an
amount equal to the value of any federal, state and local Incentives that
Plaintiff must return as a result of such removal (SSUF No. 9.) 
·       
As of the date of this Declaration, the Make
Whole Payment due and owing to Plaintiff under the Contract is in the amount of
$75,326.00. (SSUF No. 10.) 
·       
Plaintiff has also incurred recoverable costs
in the amount of $625.00 (“Court Costs”), consisting of filing fees in the
amount of $435.00, and service of process fees of $190.00. (SSUF No. 11.) 
Based on the above, the Court determines Plaintiff has made
a prima facie showing that no triable issue of material fact exists regarding
whether Defendant is liable for breach of contract.  The burden now shifts to Defendant to raise a
triable issue of material fact.
In opposition, Defendant presents evidence of the following:

·       
Defendant was referred to someone named
“James.” Defendant states that she and James “did not come to any verbal or
written agreement.” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 3.) 
·       
Defendant “found out that some contract was
signed and I did not have anything to do with it, or give any permission or
authority to anyone to sign on my behalf. I now believe that “James” is the
same person who electronically signed the alleged contract on page 20.” (Id., ¶
4.)  
·       
“All of a sudden, and without any telephone
call, notice or warning, new solar panels were being installed on the Subject
Property’s units. I was in total shock and was very surprised. I had no idea
how James could do this because I did not sign any documents or agree to have
any work done.” (Id., ¶ 4.) 
·       
“I now believe James generated the contract on
his own computer. I called James to find out what was going on and why he
signed my name. He told me his boss was pressuring the [sic] to get people
under contract if he wanted to keep his job.” (Id., ¶ 6.) 
·       
I demanded that he remove the panels
immediately, that I did not order them, and I was not going to pay for
them.  I kept demanding that the panels
be removed for months. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Based on the above, the Court determines that Defendant has
raised a triable issue of material fact regarding whether she is liable for
breach of contract.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED.  