 Case Number:  24NWCV01843    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  C Edgar I. Reynaga, et al. vs
1800 Dorothea Lane, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 24NWCV01843
Hearing Date: October 15, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#7
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Marat Dreicer’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and/or Stay Proceedings is DENIED. 
Defendant to give notice.  
 
Background
This is a construction defect action arising from the sale
of a new home located 1800 Dorothea Road, La Habra Heights, California, on June
9, 2022. Plaintiffs Edgar I. Reynaga and Jennifer S. Ledesma (“Plaintiffs”) filed
suit against Defendants 1800 Dorothea Lane, LLC, Uzi Levy, and Marat Dreicer alleging:
(1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Violation of CC § 896; (4) Fraud;
and (5) Negligent Misrepresentation. 
Defendant Marat Dreicer (“Moving
Defendant”) requests an order Compelling Arbitration under the purchase
agreement or, in the alternative, for a stay of proceedings.  
Legal
Standard 
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.”  
 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
(c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.) 
 
The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.  (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.  (Id.)   
‘[W]hen a petition to
compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine
whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised,
whether it is enforceable.  Because the existence of the agreement is a
statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.  If
the party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in
the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or
revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the burden of producing
evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary
to the defense.’” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
413.)  “With respect to the moving
party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
Discussion
Moving Defendant Marat Dreicer relies
on the following language in the purchase agreement, attached to the Complaint
as Exhibit 1.  
“The Parties agree that any dispute or
claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration... The arbitrator shall be a retired judge or
justice, or an attorney with at least an attorney 5 years of residential real
estate Law experience, unless the Parties mutually agree to a different
arbitrator. Enforcement of, and any motion to compel arbitration pursuant to,
this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the procedural rules of the
federal Arbitration Act, and not the California Arbitration Act,
notwithstanding any language seemingly to the contrary in this Agreement. The
Parties shall have the right to discovery in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure § 1283.05. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with
Title 9 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Judgment upon the award of
the arbitrator(s) may be entered into any court having jurisdiction.”
The signatories to the purchase
agreement are Plaintiffs Edgar I. Reynaga and Jennifer S. Ledesma, as buyers,
and Defendant 1800 Dorothy Lane LLC as the seller. (First Amended Complaint,
¶8, Ex. 1.) Moving Defendant is not a signatory to the purchase agreement.  Nevertheless, Moving Defendant argues that
because the Complaint alleges that all defendants are alter egos of one other,
Moving Defendant can enforce the arbitration agreement and Plaintiffs should be
estopped from opposing arbitration.  
In Opposition, Plaintiffs agree to
arbitrate their claims against the signatories to the purchase agreement
(Defendants 1800 Dorothy Lane LLC and Uzi Levy), but they argue any stay should
be limited to those parties, with all other claims to proceed to trial.  
In Reply, Moving Defendant argues that
the entire action should be stayed pending arbitration between the parties to
the purchase agreement.
Moving Defendant has not demonstrated
entitlement to enforce the arbitration agreement as a non-signatory.  Although Plaintiffs agree to arbitrate their
claims against Defendants 1800 Dorothy Lane LLC and Uzi Levy, these parties have
not stipulated to/moved to compel arbitration. 

CCP § 1281.4 states in relevant part:
“If a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.”
Here, because this Court has not
ordered arbitration, and there is no pending motion to compel arbitration, no
grounds exist for a stay. 
Thus, the request to compel
arbitration and/or stay proceedings is DENIED. 

 

 