 Case Number:  22NWCV01643    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  C Leslie M Lopez, et al. vs American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Case No.: 22NWCV01643
Hearing Date: October 15, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#8 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiffs Lesile M. Lopez and Francisco Lopez’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, Set Two, is
CONTINUED to January 28, 2025 in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiffs Lesile M. Lopez and Francisco Lopez (“Plaintiffs”) contend
that Defendant American Honda Motor Co. (“Defendant”) violated the California
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act by failing to repair or repurchase
Plaintiff’s 2020 Honda Passport.  During
the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or developed numerous
defects that Defendant’s authorized repair facility was unable to conform to
warranty.
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs served their second set of
Requests for Production of Documents upon Defendant. (Derderian Decl. ¶ 18; Ex.
3.) On December 18, 2023, Defendant served verified responses.  Plaintiffs contend the responses are
insufficient. 
Plaintiffs have sent two meet and confer letters to
Defendant, and Defendant has not responded to either one. (Derderian Decl., ¶¶
21-23.) The Court finds that these meet and confer efforts are insufficient
given the number of discovery requests at issue.  
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort
at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Therefore, Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is
required. Counsel are also strongly advised to review the standing CMC order issued
in Department F for guidance on the manner to handle disputed items. The joint
statement must be FILED on or before January 17, 2025 at noon.
 