  Case Number:  23CHCV00262    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  12/3/24




Case
  Name: Taylor Peacock and Austin Smith v. Ford Motor Company, AutoNation
  Ford Valencia, and Does 1 to 10




Case No.
  23CHCV00262



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

DECEMBER 3, 2024
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00262

 
Motion
filed: 8/29/24 
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Taylor Peacock and
Austin Smith
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication on the First, Fourth, and Seventh Causes of Action in Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Taylor Peacock (“Peacock”) and Austin Smith
(“Smith”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) brought this action under Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (Lemon Law), Consumer Legal Remedies Act, and
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act over alleged defects in their 2020 Ford Expedition
(the “Subject Vehicle”), which was manufactured by Defendant Ford Motor Company
(“FMC”). Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a warranty contract with
Defendant FMC on or about December 19, 2020.
 
On January 31, 2023, Plaintiffs initiated this action.
Subsequently, on May 26, 2023, the Department F47 Court sustained a demurrer
filed by Defendant FMC on April 10, 2023.
 
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants FMC and AutoNation Ford Valencia
(“AutoNation Ford”), and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section
1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4)
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Civ. Code §§ 1791.1, 1794,
1795.5), (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment, (6) Negligent Repair, (7)
Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act (Civ. Code § 1750 et seq.), and (8)
Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. The First through Fifth, and
Seventh through Eighth Causes of Action are alleged against Defendant FMC. The
Sixth Cause of Action is alleged against AutoNation Ford. Subsequently, on
December 5, 2023, the Department F47 Court sustained FMC’s demurrer to the
Third and Fifth Causes of Action without leave to amend.
 
On August 29, 2024, Defendant FMC
filed the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication on the First, Fourth, and
Seventh Causes of Action in the FAC. Subsequently, Plaintiffs filed their
Opposition on November 19, 2024.
 
            No Reply
papers have been received by the Court.   
 
ANALYSIS
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed
by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In
determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
“[I]f the moving papers establish a prima facie
showing that justifies a [ruling] in the [moving party’s] favor, the burden
then shifts to the [opposing party] to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable material factual issue.’ [Citation.]" (See's
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900,
quoting Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945,
950.) “The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
 
A.   
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court OVERRULES
Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections. 
 
B.    
First Cause
of Action: Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2
 
Civil Code section 1793.2 provides special consumer remedies
to purchasers of new vehicles covered by express warranties. The remedy at
issue here, commonly referred to as the “refund-or-replace” provision, requires
a manufacturer to replace a defective “new motor vehicle” or make restitution
if, after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer is unable to repair
the vehicle to conform to the applicable express warranty. (Civ. Code, §
1793.2, subd. (d)(2).)
 
FMC contends that that it is entitled to summary
adjudication on the First Cause of Action on the grounds that the Subject
Vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle” and therefore, remedies provided
under Civil Code section 1793.2 are therefore inapplicable. (Mot. at pp. 3-9.) 
 
The Court will examine this argument as the sole basis for
adjudicating the First Cause of Action.
 
1)     
FMC’s
Initial Burden  
 
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1), provides, in
pertinent part, that “[i]f the manufacturer or its representative in this state is
unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle ...  to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph (A) or
promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph (B).” 
 
For
the purpose of this section, “‘New motor vehicle’ means a new motor vehicle
that is bought or used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’ also means a new motor vehicle
with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds that is bought or used
primarily for business purposes by a person ... or any other legal entity, to
which not more than five motor vehicles are registered in this state. ‘New
motor vehicle’ includes the chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home
devoted to its propulsion, ... [and] a dealer-owned vehicle and a
‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty .... A demonstrator is a vehicle assigned by a
dealer for the purpose of demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to
vehicles of the same or similar model and type.” (Civ. Code § 1793.22, subd.
(e)(2).) (Underlines added.)
 
In Rodriguez v. FCA
US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, review granted July 13, 2022,
S274625 (Rodriguez), the Court of Appeal upheld the trial court’s
finding that a two-year-old Dodge truck purchased from a used car dealership,
with 55,000 miles on it and a remaining unexpired limited powertrain warranty, did
not qualify as a ”new motor vehicle” within the definition of Civil Code
section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2). (Ibid.) The Rodriguez Court
determined that the phrase “other motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new
car warranty” applies to cars sold with a full warranty, not to previously sold
cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra,
at p. 225.)
 
Here, FMC presents
evidence to establish that the Subject Vehicle was initially sold to EAN
Holdings, Inc. (“Enterprise”) on October 7, 2019. (FMC’s Undisputed Material
Facts (“UMF”) No. “1,” Geraghty Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. “2.”) On November 24, 2020, the
Subject Vehicle was sold by Enterprise to Chino Hills Ford, an independently
operated dealership. (FMC’s UMF No. “2,” Geraghty Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. “3.”)
Subsequently, on December 19, 2020, Chino Hills Ford in turn sold the Subject Vehicle
to Plaintiffs with 36,182 miles on the odometer. (FMC’s UMF No. “3,” Geraghty
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. “4.”) Additionally, FMC asserts that Plaintiffs did not receive
new or additional warranty coverage from FMC at the time of their purchase of
the Subject Vehicle; instead, they received only the remaining balance of the
original warranty issued by FMC in connection with the delivery of the Subject
Vehicle to its original purchaser, Enterprise. (FMC’s UMF No. “7,” Geraghty
Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. “4.”)
 
The Court finds that FMC’s UMFs and supporting evidence
demonstrate that the Subject Vehicle was purchased by Plaintiffs in “USED”
condition, without any additional new warranties issued by FMC. 
 
The Court acknowledges that, although Rodriguez is pending
review by the California Supreme Court, it remains citable for its persuasive
value and to establish the existence of a conflict of authority, thereby allowing
trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456. 
 
The Court finds the Rodriguez decision to be directly
applicable to the present facts. Based on Rodriguez, the Court concludes
that the Subject Vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle” under the
Song-Beverly Act. Consequently, the “refund-or-replace” remedy provided under
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d) is unavailable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court determines that FMC has met its
initial burden of making a prima facie showing that Plaintiffs cannot establish
their First Cause of Action. As a result, the burden now shifts to Plaintiffs
to demonstrate a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable material
factual issue.
            
2)     
Plaintiffs’
Burden of Showing Existence of a Triable Material Factual Issue
      
Plaintiffs argue that they
purchased the Subject Vehicle from FMC’s authorized retailer, and they received
various warranties, including a 3-year/36,000-mile bumper-to-bumper express
warranty, a 5-year/60,000-mile express powertrain warranty, and a
8-year/80,000-mile California emissions warranties directly from FMC. (Pl.’s
UMF Nos. “2,” “3,” and “6,” Peacock & Smith Decl. ¶ “6,” Ex. “2.”)
 
However, the Court finds
this evidence insufficient to establish the existence of a trial issue of
material fact as to whether the Subject Vehicle qualifies as a “new motor
vehicle” under the definition provided in Civil Code section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2), or in alignment
with the ruling in Rodriguez.    
 
Just like the plaintiffs in Rodriguez who purchased
their car from a used car dealership with the basic bumper-to-bumper warranty
expired but with an unspecified balance remained on the powertrain warranty,
Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle in “USED” condition (Geraghty Decl.
Ex. “4”) The basic bumper-to-bumper warranty had expired due to the odometer
exceeding 36,000 miles, although an unspecified balance remained on the
powertrain warranties and California emissions warranties. (Pl.’s UMF No. “7.”)
 
Additionally, while Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle
from FMC’s authorized retailer, their own evidence – specifically, the Purchase
Agreement between Plaintiffs and Chino Hills Ford – indicates that the Subject
Vehicle was sold in “USED” condition. (Peacock and Smith Decl. Ex. “1.”)
Furthermore, Plaintiffs have not claimed or provided evidence to support that
the Subject Vehicle qualified as a dealer-owned “demonstrator” under Civil Code
section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2).
 
The Court concludes that
Plaintiffs’ UMFs and supporting evidence do not distinguish their case from Rodriguez.
Consequently, Plaintiffs have not satisfied their burden to demonstrate the
existence of a triable material factual issue on the question of whether the
Subject Vehicle qualified as a “new motor vehicle,” a prerequisite for availing
the “refund-or-replace” remedy sought in the First Cause of Action under Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d). 
 
            Therefore,
the Court GRANTS the Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the First Cause of
Action.
 
C.    Fourth
Cause of Action – Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Civ. Code
§§ 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5.)
 
The Song-Beverly Act provides for
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for “consumer goods.” (Civ.
Code, § 1791.1, subd. (a).) Importantly, “Consumer goods” means any new
product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, except for clothing and consumables.
(Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (a).) (Underlines added.)
 
The Song-Beverly Act also provides for implied
warranties for used goods, albeit for a shorter duration compared to new
products – specifically, the implied warranties for used goods are limited to a
maximum duration of three months. (Civ. Code, § 1795.5, subd. (c).) “As is
the case with liability for breach of express warranties, ‘in the sale of used
consumer goods, liability for breach of implied warranty lies with
distributors and retailers, not the manufacturer,’ unless the manufacturer
issues a new warranty along with the sale of the used good.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 218, internal citations omitted.) (Underlines
added.) “The Song-Beverly Act provides similar remedies in the context of the
sale of used goods, except that the manufacturer is generally off the hook.” (Kiluk
v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339–340 (Kiluk).)
 
1)     
FMC’s
Initial Burden  
 
Here,
FMC argues that Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action must fail because no defects
were manifested within the three-month implied warranty period. (Mot. at pp.
9-12.) Additionally, FMC asserts the seller of Plaintiffs’ Subject Vehicle –
Chino Hills Ford – is an independently operated dealership. (FMC’s UMF No. “2,”
Geraghty Decl, Ex. “3.”) FMC further maintains that it did not issue any new or
additional warranty at the time of Plaintiffs’ purchase of the Subject Vehicle
from Chino Hills Ford. (FMC’s UMF No. “7,” Geraghty Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. “4.”)
 
As the
Court has determined that the Subject Vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor
vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act, it further concludes that FMC has met its
initial burden to show that liability for breach of implied warranty does not attach
to FMC. The Court
finds that FMC, as the manufacturer, is not liable under the implied warranty
provisions because it did not issue a new warranty at the time of the Subject
Vehicle's sale by Chino Hills Ford, an independent retailer. 
 
2)      Plaintiffs’ Burden of Showing Existence
of a Triable Material Factual Issue
 
In their
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that their protection under the implied warranty
is not time-barred due to the latent defects that were undiscoverable at the
time of sale. (Opp’n. at p. 7.) Plaintiffs further contend that when a
warrantor partners with a dealership in the sale of its vehicles, the warrantor
legally steps into the shoe of a “retailer” within the meaning of Civil Code
section 1795.5, and is treated the same as a retailer, citing Kiluk, supra.
 
The
Court acknowledges that Plaintiffs’ second argument is dispositive because, if
FMC is exempted from the Civil Code section 1795.5, the liability does not
attach to FMC even if there may be a latent defect.
 
The
Court, however, finds Kiluk distinguishable. In Kiluk, the
plaintiff purchased a certified preowned (“CPO”) Mercedez-Benz vehicle that
included a new CPO warranty issued by Mercedez-Benz, extending coverage for one
year beyond the expiration of the original new car warranty. (Kiluk, supra,
43 Cal.App.5th at p. 337.) The Kiluk court held that Mercedez-Benz was
not exempted from liability under Civil Code section 1795.5 because “it
partnered with a dealership to sell used vehicle directly to the public by
offering an express warranty as part of the sales package[.]”
 
Here,
Plaintiffs present no evidence to support that FMC issued any new warranty at
the time of their purchase of the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiffs’ own evidence –
the Warranty Manual – states in its Introduction:
 
“If you
bought a previously owned 2020-model vehicle, you are eligible for any
remaining warranty coverages.” 
 
(Peacock
& Smith Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
“2.”)
 
Unlike
the new CPO warranty issued by the manufacturer in Kiluk, Plaintiffs’
evidence establishes only that they received the balance of the FMC’s original express
warranty, issued when the Subject Vehicle was delivered to its original
purchaser. Under these circumstances, both Rodriguez and Kiluk
are consistent that Civil Code section 1795.5 specifically exempts
manufacturers from liability, imposing warranty obligations only on the
retailer or distributor.
 
Accordingly,
the Court concludes that Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden of showing
the existence of a triable material factual issue.
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS the Motion as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
D.    Seventh
Cause of Action – Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act (Civ. Code, §§ 1750 et seq.)
 
“[A]lthough a claim may be stated under the CLRA in terms constituting fraudulent
omissions, to be actionable the omission must be contrary to a
representation actually made by the defendant, or an omission of a fact the
defendant was obliged to disclose.” (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835 (Daugherty).) (Underlines
added.)
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges that FMC violated the Consumer Legal Remedies
Act (“CLRA”) by “knowingly warranting and allowing to be sold to Plaintiffs the
Vehicle without disclosing that the Subject Vehicle and its 10R80 10-speed
(“10R80”) transmission is defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure.” (Compl. ¶
78.) By failing to disclose and concealing the defective nature of the
10R80 transmission from Plaintiffs, Defendant violated California Civil Code §
1770(a), as it represented that the Vehicle and its 10R80 transmission had
characteristics and benefits that they do not have, and ii) represented that
the Vehicle and its 10R80 transmission were of a particular standard, quality,
or grade when they were of another. See Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1770(a)(5) and (7).”
(Id. ¶ 82.) 
 
Accordingly, the Seventh Cause of
Action is based on allegations of fraudulent omission or concealment. 
 
1)     
 FMC’s Initial Burden  
 
FMC
argues that there is no evidence of any fraudulent concealment on its part. FMC
submits evidence that it publicly disclosed potential harsh shifting being experienced
by some of its customers prior to Plaintiffs’ purchasing the Subject Vehicle.
(FMC’s UMF No. “10.”)
 
FMC
further argues that it had no duty to disclose, as it did not enter into a
transactional relationship with Plaintiffs. FMC provides evidence that
Plaintiffs did not purchase the Subject Vehicle from FMC (FMC’s UMF No. “3”),
and testified that they had no contact with Ford prior to purchasing the
Subject Vehicle, and that they did not review or rely on any advertising
materials prior to purchasing. (Id. No. “5.”)
 
The
Court finds that FMC has presented sufficient evidence to justify a ruling in
its favor. 
 
2)      Plaintiffs’ Burden of Showing
Existence of a Triable Material Factual Issue
 
i.                   
Existence of a Triable Issue as to FMC’s
Misrepresentation
 
“[A]lthough a claim may be stated under the CLRA in terms constituting fraudulent
omissions, to be actionable the omission must be contrary to a
representation actually made by the defendant, or an omission of a fact the
defendant was obliged to disclose.” (Daugherty, supra, 144
Cal.App.4th at p. 835.) (Underlines added.)
 
In Daugherty, the plaintiff “alleges Honda violated the CLRA by
“[c]oncealing and failing to disclose” that the 1990–1997 model year Preludes
and Accords equipped with F22 engines contain a defect, and by continuing to
market and sell defective cars notwithstanding knowledge of the defect. (Id.
at p. 833.) The Daugherty court upheld the trial court’s dismissal of
the complaint, reasoning that “the complaint does not allege any representation
of fact that ‘works a concealment of the true fact.’ (Citation omitted.) In other words, and as Outboard Marine [internal citation omitted] also
opined, the CLRA proscribes a concealment of characteristics or quality
“contrary to that represented,” but in Daugherty's case, no representation was
made to which the alleged concealment was contrary.” (Id. at p. 834.)
(Underlines added.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs presented evidence that when they were shopping for a
vehicle, they “looked online mostly at the manufacturer website or dealership
websites . . . .” (Pl.’s UMF No. “5,” referencing Peacock’s Deposition
Transcript at 40: 11-15.) Plaintiffs suggest that FMC’s website or dealership
websites made certain representations that could potentially create a basis for
concealment of characteristics or quality contrary to those represented. 
 
However, Plaintiffs have failed to provide specificity regarding any
affirmative representation made by FMC, or on its website. Nor does Plaintiffs’
evidence support the existence of trial issue that any specified representation
made by FMC could proscribe a concealment of characteristics or quality
contrary to that represented.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable material factual issue that FMC’s alleged nondisclosure of defect
was contrary to any FMC’s affirmative representation. 
 
ii.                 
Existence of a Triable Issue as to FMC’s Duty to
Disclose
 
Alternatively, FMC’s alleged fraudulent omission may be actionable if
FMC was obligated to disclose. (Daugherty, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th
at p. 835.) There are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment
may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]” (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)
 
Here, in disputing FMC’s UMF No. “10,” Plaintiffs merely state the
general legal principal that “[a] duty to disclose material facts may arise,
inter alia, (1) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; or (2) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff. [citing LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (LiMandri)]” (Pl.’s UMF No. “10.”) Plaintiffs,
however, provide no legal analysis or evidence to support their assertion.
 
The full statement in LiMandri clarifies that “where material
facts are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between the
parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such known facts.” (LiMandri,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.) (Italics in original.) In LiMandri,
the Court of Appeal found that “[t]he fundamental problem with [the
plaintiff’s] nondisclosure causes of action is that he alleges no such
transaction or relationship with [the defendant]. The only ‘transaction’
underlying [the plaintiff’s] claims in the ... conversation in which [the
defendant] asked [the plaintiff] about the state court action against Signal Landmark.
[The plaintiff] alleges no existing or anticipated contractual relationship or
any other relationship with [the defendant] that would give rise to a duty to
disclose.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, even construing all facts and inferences in Plaintiffs’ favor as required
at the summary judgment stage, Plaintiffs’ receipt of the Warranty Manual at
the sale of the Subject Vehicle in used condition and their online browsing at
FMC’s websites does not demonstrate the existence of a transactional
relationship with FMC. Such a transactional relationship is necessary to
implicate FMC’s duty to disclose on the basis of its exclusive knowledge. (LiMandri,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.)
 
Additionally, Plaintiffs do not argue that FMC was in a fiduciary
relationship with them, or that FMC actively concealed and suppressed
information about the alleged defects. Plaintiffs’ evidence fails to
demonstrate any of the circumstances required to impose a duty to disclose.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ evidence insufficient to meet their
burden to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
material factual issue that FMC had a
duty to disclose. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion as to the Seventh Cause of
Action.
 

CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
on the First, Fourth, and Seventh Cause of Action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice.
 