 Case Number:  23CHCV00332    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  12/3/24




Case
  Name: Eva Cruz v. Juan Antonio Jr. Mazariego, Rachel Megan
  Corbin, Ralph Corbin, Barbara Corbin, and Does 1 to 25




Case No.
  23CHCV00332



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

DECEMBER 3, 2024
 

MOTION FOR TRIAL SETTING PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00332

 
Motion
filed: 10/23/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Eva Cruz
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Juan Antonio Mazariego
Jr., Rachel Megan Corbin, Ralph Corbin, and Barbara Corbin
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Plaintiff’s motion for preference and advance the trial date
within 120 days of this hearing.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
February 6, 2023, Plaintiff Eva Cruz (“Plaintiff” or “Cruz”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Juan Antonio Mazariego Jr., Rachel
Megan Corbin, Ralph Corbin, and Barbara Corbin (collectively, “Defendants”),
alleging one cause of action for Motor Vehicle Liability. Subsequently,
Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint on March 20, 2023.
 
 On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Trial Setting Preference (the “Motion”). Subsequently,
Defendants filed their Opposition to the Motion on November 19, 2024, and
Plaintiff replied on November 25, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 36 provides, “A party to a civil action who is over
70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court” finds the party “has a substantial interest in the action
as a whole” and the party’s health “is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 36, subd. (a).)
 
“The
standard under subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more
specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor's declaration.
To the contrary, a motion under subdivision (a) may be supported by nothing
more than an attorney's declaration ‘based upon information and belief as to
the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.’ [Citations.]” (Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) Once a party “meets the
requisite standard for calendar preference under subdivision (a), preference
must be granted. No weighing of interests is involved.” (Fox v. Super. Ct.,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 535.) This is so, even against the opposing
party’s “interest in having adequate time to prepare for trial.” (Ibid.)
 
A
case that is granted preference must be set for trial “not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party's attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
 
A.    Party
70 Years of Age or Older
Here,
Plaintiff moves for preference applicable to a party 70 years of age or older. According
to the driver's license lodged as Exhibit “A” to her counsel’s declaration,
Plaintiff’s date of birth is January 4, 1946. (10/23/24 Darbinyan Decl. Ex.
“A.”) In her Reply, Plaintiff presents her verified response to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, No. 2.3 which states that her birth date is
“1/4/1946.” (11/22/24 Darbinyan Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. “B.”)
The
Court finds this evidence sufficient to establish Plaintiff’s date of birth,
making her 78 years old.
 
B.     Party’s
Substantial Interest in the Action
 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole, as she is the injured party. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 36,
subdivision (a)(1) is satisfied.
 
C.    Proof
of Party’s Health Condition
 
The
moving party has a burden to show that her health is “such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's
interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a)(2).) (Underlines
added.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s moving papers rely solely on her counsel’s declaration, which
asserts that “Plaintiff suffers from diabetes, DM 2 with hyperglycemia,
hypertension and hyperlipidemia.” (10/23/24 Darbinyan Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
The Court notes that the relevant
standard under Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) accommodates
a wide range of circumstances. As stated in Fox v. Superior Court, supra,
“The issue under subdivision (a) is not whether an elderly litigant might die
before trial or become so disabled ... [but] all subdivision (a) requires is a
showing that that party's ‘health ... is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing [her] interest in the litigation.’” (Fox v. Super. Ct.,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 534, italics omitted.) Additionally, a
declaration supporting a motion for preference under Code of Civil Procedure section
36, subdivision (a) “may be signed by the attorney for the party
seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.) (Underlines
added.) While section 36.5 permits such a declaration, it does not eliminate
the need to establish a reasonable connection between the party’s health and
the necessity for trial preference.
 
The
declaration, however, does not state that it is made “based on Plaintiff’s
counsel’s information and belief,” leaving it unclear whether the declaration
meets even the lowered evidentiary standard of personal assessment permitted
under section 36.5. Moreover, it provides no indication that Plaintiff’s health
condition is deteriorating or that it presents circumstances beyond chronic and
managed conditions. As such, it lacks sufficient context or explanation to support
a reasonable inference that Plaintiff’s health necessitates trial preference to
prevent prejudicing her interest in the action. Finally, the declaration fails
to demonstrate any prejudice Plaintiff would suffer if preference is
unavailable.
 
Plaintiff’s
Reply unfortunately has failed to address these deficiencies, leaving the
Motion unsupported and insufficient to meet all statutory requirements under
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a).
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Preference is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice of this order.
 