  Plaintiff Petros Taglyan  seeks to compel further responses to his requests for production, set two, nos. 54 and 55 propounded on Defendant Tekeyan Cultural Association, Inc. The facts of this matter were summarized by the Court of Appeal as follows: “In 2003, TCA’s directors approached the Taglyans seeking financial assistance to help expand the school and construct a new school building. Between 2003 and 2008, the Taglyans and TCA orally agreed that the Taglyans would make significant financial contributions to the school pursuant to the following terms: (1) the new school building would be named after the Taglyans; (2) TCA’s directors would act in good faith to insure the continued operation and success of the school; (3) if the school experienced financial difficulty, TCA would notify the school’s donors, including the Taglyans, to permit them to make additional contributions to keep the school operational; (4) TCA’s directors would not take any action to jeopardize the school’s continued operation and would not close it before giving the plaintiffs the opportunity to purchase the school and/or obtain additional financing on the school’s behalf; and (5) if TCA’s directors did not follow this protocol or unilaterally closed the school, they would repay the Taglyans’s contributions with interest. In exchange for these promises, the Taglyans made conditional donations to Dickranian in excess of $1 million. In 2004 and 2006, the Martirosians orally agreed with TCA and its directors to donate $25,000 ($10,000 in 2004 and $15,000 in 2006) to support the new campus. Those contributions were made pursuant to oral agreements whose terms were identical to TCA’s agreements with the Taglyans, except the Martirosians would not receive naming rights.In 1991, the Semirdzhyans orally agreed with TCA and its directors to donate $20,000 to support the school. The Semirdzhyans and TCA entered into an oral contract whose terms were identical to TCA’s agreements with the Taglyans’s except the Semirdzhyans were to receive naming rights to the school’s 11th grade classroom. Plaintiffs duly performed all of their obligations under the oral agreements. TCA breached the oral agreements by failing to advise plaintiffs that the school was in financial difficulty, failing to approach plaintiffs about buying the school or obtaining additional financing, closing the school, selling the land on which the school was situated, and failing to repay plaintiffs any portion of their conditional gifts. Plaintiffs asserted these breaches by TCA caused them damages in excess of $1 million and gave rise to causes of action for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith.” Request no. 54 seeks, “ALL TCA Central Board meeting minutes for the RELEVANT PERIOD.” Request no. 55 seeks, “ALL SCHOOL Board meeting minutes for the RELEVANT PERIOD.” “ ‘RELEVANT PERIOD’ refers to January 1, 1986 to the present. (Plaintiffs’ three children attended the SCHOOL from pre-Kindergarten or Kindergarten through the 12th grade, in or around 1986 through 2010. Plaintiffs supported the SCHOOL financially and otherwise during these and subsequent years and thus the defined relevant period is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.)”  Plaintiff contends there is no reason not to provide the document at issue, given their relevance and the fact that an attorneys’ eyes only protective order is in place. Defendant contends that “Despite Plaintiff’s scorched earth approach to discovery, the only documents Defendant has objected to producing with respect to this motion are the TCA board minutes from 2017 to the present. These board minutes pertain to TCA’s worldwide operations and have nothing to do with the school, which was closed more than eight years ago and more than a year and a half before January 2017. (Declaration of Isis Miranda (‘Miranda Decl.’), ¶ 2.) These documents also contain privileged and protected information regarding TCA’s legal strategy with respect to this lawsuit, which was filed on August 31, 2016, and has continued through the present day. Id. These documents also contain sensitive information regarding the innerworkings of TCA and internal politics that is irrelevant to this lawsuit, not appropriate for viewing by Plaintiff or his counsel, and certainly not appropriate for public consumption. Id. These documents also contain protected sensitive personal information about other members of the Global Armenian Community and the Los Angeles Armenian Community that is also irrelevant to this lawsuit not appropriate for viewing by Plaintiff or his counsel, and certainly not appropriate for public consumption. Id.” Defendant also contends it has produced all other documents from before 2017 and that the time has passed to compel Defendant to produce these documents without redactions. The issues for the Motion are whether Plaintiff is entitled to (1) unredacted documents from before 2017 and (2) any documents from 2017 to the present.On the first issue, the Court has reviewed the prior discovery and finds that Plaintiff did not propound substantially identical requests.  That some of the responses/production included minutes is not sufficient.  While there were some requests for minutes, they were not quite as broad as the requests at issue.  Therefore, the Court does not believe that the deadline has passed to compel further production/responses.  Thus, to the extent that there are minimal redactions from before 2017, a privilege log should be provided at this time. As to documents from 2017 until the present, Plaintiff contends that “TCA Central Board minutes from November 2016 state that a School ‘feasibility committee was still having meetings’ and ‘looking at existing schools’ to potentially purchase. (Motion, at 7:27-8:3.) Board minutes from 2017 to the present also may contain information about this ‘feasibility committee,’ which are directly relevant to the Fourth Amended Complaint’s (FAC) allegation TCA acted in bad faith in closing down the School. (FAC, ¶ 14.) TCA’s Opposition has no response to this point.”The Court agrees that documents from 2017 until the present might lead to admissible evidence; that the scope of discovery is quite broad; and that a highly confidential protective order should address any privacy concerns.  To the extent there is privileged material, a privilege log should be provided.Therefore, the Motion to Compel is granted.  Further responses/production are to be provided within 45 days.  The Court respectfully declines to award sanctions as there was substantial justification for the Opposition.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 