 Case Number:  22STCV29486    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  68 Melissa L. Ayala, et al. vs.
General Motors, LLC,
22STCV29486               
Motion
to Compel Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified
Moving Parties: Plaintiffs Melissa
Ayala and Geovanni Gonzalez
Responding Party: Defendant General
Motors, LLC
BACKGROUND
The complaint
in this Song-Beverly Warranty Act case was filed on September 9, 2022. General
Motors objection to some of the categories for the deposition of its PMQ;
however, GM has indicated that it would provide a PMQ for most of the
categories in the deposition notice. GM primarily objected to the categories
that were overly broad or went beyond the scope of Plaintiffs’ 2020 Chevrolet
Silverado 1500. Despite this, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel deposition includes
even the categories for which GM has agreed to produce a PMQ. GM indicated in
its opposition that Plaintiffs did not meet and confer prior to filing the
motion to compel.
The Court has
reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the motion on
the merits at this time. The Court orders an Informal Discovery Conference. At
least 10 days prior to the IDC, the parties must conduct a meaningful meet and
confer and resolve as much as they can. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues prior to the IDC. The joint
statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then GM’s arguments.
ORDER
1.      The parties are ordered to
conduct a meaningful meet and confer at least 10 court days prior to the
Informal Discovery Conference.
2.      At least 3 court days prior to
the Informal Discovery Conference, the parties shall submit a joint statement
of the remaining issues as described above. 
The format must be to recite the specific category of PMQ, followed by
moving party’s statement of why it should be compelled, followed by the
opposing party’s statement of why it should not be compelled.  To the extent that an argument is repeated
for a subsequent category, the party shall simply state that it relies upon the
argument to #__.  Do not repeat the arguments
over and over.
3.      An Informal Discovery
Conference shall be held on ________________.