  Case Number:  21STCV28139    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  68 Carla Rice vs. County of Los Angeles – Department of
Health Services, et al., 21STCV28139
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Production of
Records served to Victoria Chan
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Production of Business
Records for Downtown Mind Wellness
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles – Department
of Health Services

Opposing Parties: Victoria Chan
and Downtown Mind Wellness

“Here, Plaintiff did not object to
the subpoena, did not oppose the Motion to Compel Compliance with the
Deposition Subpoena, and has not presented any showing that any communications
are not directly related to her claimed damages against the County. Downtown also
failed to set forth any showing that there are any communications not directly
related to the issues Plaintiff tendered to the Court. To the contrary,
Plaintiff made it clear through written discovery and deposition that the
records are directly related to her claims against the County. Therefore,
Downtown must comply with the deposition subpoena.”  (Reply pg. 4:12-19.)
Background
            Defendant
County of Los Angeles – Department of Health Services (Defendant) filed these
motions to compel compliance with subpoena for production of records pursuant
to CCP § 2025.480. Victoria Chan and Downtown Mind Wellness, who have
Plaintiff’s mental health records, said that they would not produce records
related to Plaintiff Carla Rice (Plaintiff) because Defendant’s subpoena of
their records was not accompanied by a HIPAA-compliant authorization signed by
Plaintiff.
            (As noted in
the quotation above, the patient has not objected to the production.)
            Defendant
argues that the Court should enforce the subpoenas because Plaintiff put her
mental health at issue in this case. Plaintiff has alleged damages for emotional
distress, as well as depression, anxiety, pain, nausea, and headaches.
Defendant argues that because Plaintiff put these things at issue, then
Defendant’s need to prepare its defense outweighs Plaintiff’s privacy
interests. Plaintiff also alleges a cause of action under FEHA. In order to
prove claims under FEHA, Defendant argues that Plaintiff must show that she
suffered from a disability at the time of her requests for accommodations.
Opposing
Parties’ Position
            Victoria
Chan and Downtown Mind Wellness argue in their combined opposition that they
have an obligation to assert the psychotherapist-patient privilege whenever
third parties seek access to confidential communications. They argue that
Defendant is only entitled to a limited inquiry into psychotherapy records that
are directly relevant to the specific claims that Plaintiff made at issue in
her lawsuit. They argue that the Court’s order should be limited to the
disclosure of psychotherapy records that reflect Plaintiff’s treatment for
pain, anxiety, and depression. They also argue that the order should require
them to include a general description of psychotherapy records that are not
disclosed.
            (But the
healthcare providers are not in a position to enlighten the Court as to why
they believe that the requested materials are not within the proper scope of
discovery based on the claims that the Plaintiff makes.  And the patient chose not to claim that the requested
materials are not germane and properly discoverable in this action.)
Reply
            Defendant
argues in its reply that case law supports the production of all of Plaintiff’s
mental health records because she has put her mental health at issue in this
case. Defendant argues that even Plaintiff’s prior mental health records are
relevant because Plaintiff is claiming that Defendant exacerbated Plaintiff’s
pre-existing PTSD, anxiety, and depression. Defendant also points out that
Plaintiff has not objected to the subpoena of the records and has not presented
any showing that the records are not directly related to the issues in the
case. Defendant requests that the Court compel Chan and Downtown to comply with
the subpoenas and produce all of Plaintiff’s records from 2018 to the present
date.
Analysis
            CCP §
2025.480 allows a subpoenaing party to seek a court order compelling compliance
with a deposition subpoena when a non-party refuses to comply with the
subpoena. Evidence Code § 1016 provides that there is no privilege concerning
the issue of the mental or emotional condition of a patient if such issue as
been tendered by the patient.
            The
California Supreme Court has held that “the patient, in raising the issue of a
specific ailment or condition in litigation, in effect dispenses with the
confidentiality of that ailment and may no longer justifiably seek protection
from the humiliation of its exposure.” (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d
415, 433.) However, disclosure can be compelled only for the specific mental
conditions that the Plaintiff has disclosed. (Id. at 435.)
            Plaintiff
has put her mental and emotional condition at issue in this lawsuit.
Specifically, she has put her pain, PTSD, anxiety, and depression at issue. Any
records that Chan and Downtown have related to those conditions from 2018
onwards must be produced. Any records for conditions beyond these need not be
produced, but Chan and Downtown should provide a description of the records
they do not produce. 
Order
1.      Defendant
County of Los Angeles’s motion to compel compliance with the subpoenas is GRANTED
in its entirety.
2.      Victoria
Chan and Downtown Mind Wellness are ordered to comply with Defendant’s subpoena
in full.