 Case Number:  22STCV02254    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike filed by Defendants Aaron Barsalou and
Psyclarity Health Inc., LLC. 
 
TENTATIVE
The
motion to strike is granted with leave to amend.
Background
This
case arises out of injuries suffered by Plaintiff Austin Parnell (“Plaintiff’) on
September 17, 2021.  Plaintiff alleges
that while he was in a rehabilitation facility, and had a known high risk of
suicide, he was allowed to access the second floor of the facility; he then jumped
from a balcony, sustaining severe and permanent injuries.
On
January 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed the complaint in this action asserting a
single cause of action for negligence against Defendants Aaron Barsalou (“Barsalou”);
Psyclarity Health Inc., LLC (“Psyclarity”); The Giving Tree LLC; Goldwing
Recovery Co.; and Does 1 through 100.
On March
20, 2022, Defendants Aaron Barsalou and Psyclarity filed an answer to the
complaint.
On
August 10, 2022, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims
against Goldwing Recovery Co. without prejudice.
On November 3, 2023, Defendant The Giving
Tree LLC (“Giving Tree”) filed a demurrer and a motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations.  On December 4,
2023, the Court overruled the demurrer and granted the motion to strike with
leave to amend.
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (the
“FAC”) on December 19, 2023.
Defendants Barsalou
and Psyclarity (collectively “Defendants”) filed this
motion to strike the punitive damages allegation against them on February 1,
2024. Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 20, 2024, which was not timely.
 Defendants filed their reply on February
22, 2024.
Legal
Standard
A motion
to strike challenges “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  In ruling on a motion to
strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly pleaded facts in the
complaint or other pleading.  (Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Before
filing a motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer with the
opposing party.  (Code Civ. Proc., §435.5(a).)
Procedural Matters
Defendants
satisfied the statutory meet and confer requirements.  (Gobran Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)
The Court
exercises its discretion to consider Plaintiff’s late-filed opposition.
Discussion
Plaintiff asserts a cause of
action against Defendant for negligence. Plaintiff also requests punitive
damages. (Complaint, at p. 5:3, Prayer for Relief, second item numbered 4.) Defendants
move to strike that request. 
“‘In order to state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.” (Today IV’s Inc.
v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Civil Code
section 3294 provides that on a non-contract cause of action, a plaintiff may
recover punitive damages when they prove “by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civil Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
The term “despicable,” which is used in the definition of
“oppression” and “malice” refers to actions that are “base,” “vile,” or
“contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) In general, punitive damages are appropriate if the defendant's acts are reprehensible,
fraudulent or in blatant violation of law or policy. (American Airlines,
Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
1017.)
To
show that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others,” it is not enough to establish negligence, gross
negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Super. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the
defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury
could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury
to others.” (Id. at p. 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient
for a reasonable jury to conclude that defendant’s conduct was “despicable,”
defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)
In a complaint, the plaintiff must allege specific facts showing
that the defendant has been guilty of
malice, oppression or fraud. (Id. at p. 721.) The basis for punitive
damages must be pleaded with particularity; conclusory allegations devoid of
any factual assertions are insufficient. (Smith v. Super. Ct. (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; see also Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
The Court has reviewed the FAC and
the arguments of each side.  As this Court
previously ruled in connection with Giving Tree’s motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations in the initial complaint, the Court concludes that the FAC fails
to state facts with sufficient particularity to support a claim against
Defendants for the recovery of punitive damages. The FAC states facts that are
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants for negligence, and
the FAC alleges that Plaintiff sustained horrible injuries as a result of Defendants’
negligence, but that alone is not enough to recover punitive damages. 
The Court again grants Plaintiff
leave to amend. Based on the arguments made by Plaintiff in his opposition to
the motion, there is at least some reasonable possibility that he will be able
to allege facts, with sufficient particularity, that would (if proven)
establish that Defendants engaged in conduct that meets the test for
oppression, fraud, or malice. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)  Plaintiff should not assume,
however, that he will receive any further leave to amend with regard to the punitive
damages allegations.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion with leave to
amend.
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ motion to strike the phrase “For exemplary or punitive damages
according to proof” on page 5, line 3 of the Complaint, as it relates to
Defendants Aaron Barsalou and Psyclarity
Health Inc., LLC.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff
leave to file an amended complaint within 14 days of notice of this ruling.
Defendants are
ORDERED to respond to Plaintiff’s operative pleading by the later of (1) 28
days from notice of this order or (2) 21 days from service of any further amended
complaint. 
Defendants are
ordered to give notice.
