 Case Number:  22STCV33581    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel the Compliance with Deposition
Subpoena to nonparty HireRight LLC, and Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters
Asserted 
 
Tentative
The motion for a deemed-admitted order is off
calender per notice filed by moving party on February 26, 2024.
The motion to compel compliance with non-party
deposition subpoena is denied without prejudice.
Background
Plaintiffs Jacqueline Duclos, Sumoya
Michael, and Jane Doe (a minor child) alleged that they were assaulted and
robbed on October 20, 2020, while they were staying in a
guestroom of the InterContinental Hotel in downtown Los Angeles.  Plaintiffs filed their complaint on October
14, 2022, and their First Amended Complaint on July 28, 2023.
As
is relevant here, Plaintiff served nonparty HireRight, LLC (“HireRight”) with
a deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of documents on
December 27, 2023. (Palmer Decl., ¶ 5.) The subpoena was personally served on
HireRight.  (Id., Exh. B.)  HireRight LLC did not appear for deposition on
January 24, 2024. (Id., ¶ 10.)
On January
31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel compliance with Plaintiffs’
deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of business records.
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
A party seeking
discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery
by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production
of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may
command either: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only
the production of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.020.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
A service of a
deposition subpoena shall be affected a sufficient time in advance of the
deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and
produce any designated documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a
reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective
to require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and
testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and
to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be
punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court
directing compliance by the witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion
to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days
after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or the
date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011,
1032-1033.)¿ 
¿ 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”¿ 
¿¿ 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. .
. in making an order pursuant to motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred
in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification . . . .”¿ 
 
Discussion
Plaintiffs
served HireRight with the subpoena by personal service but served the notice of
this motion by mail and electronic transmission.  That is not proper service of the motion.  A motion to compel directed against a non-party
deponent “must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the
nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an
address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal.
R. Ct., rule 3.1346.)
 
Therefore,
the motion to enforce the deposition subpoena is DENIED.
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES without prejudice Plaintiffs’ motion to compel compliance with the
subpoena.  
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 