 Case Number:  22STCV32013    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Consolidate Cases filed by Trust
Y Inc. and Seungsan Baek.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On September 20, 2022, Plaintiff Christopher Bludso filed
his complaint in this matter, Case No. 22STCV32013 (the “Bludso Action”), against
Defendants Trust Y Inc., a California Corporation; Trust Y Inc., an unknown
entity; Seungsan Baek; and Does 1 through 50, asserting claims for motor vehicle
negligence, negligent entrustment, hiring, retention, supervision, and hiring,
and negligence per se arising out of a vehicle accident on April 20, 2021.  Defendants Trust Y Inc. and Seungsan Baek
filed their answer on November 29, 2022.
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff County of Los Angeles filed
its complaint in Case No. 23STCV08177 (the “County Action”) against Defendants
Trust Y, Inc., Seungsan Baek, and Does 1 through 50 for subrogation of worker’s
compensation benefits arising from injuries incurred from what appears to be
the same vehicle accident.  Defendants
Trust Y Inc. and Seungsan Baek filed their answer on July 18, 2023.
 
On July 28, 2023, the Court determined that the Bludso
Action and the County Action were related cases.
 
On January 23, 2024, Defendants Trust Y Inc. and Seungsan
Baek (collectively “Defendants”) filed this motion to consolidate the two cases
for all purposes. 
 
No opposition has been filed.  
 
Legal Standard
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (a).)
 
The
trial court should not consolidate actions where prejudice would result any
party, e.g., when consolidation would cause a litigant to need to adopt adverse
litigations positions in a single trial. 
(See State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47
Cal.2d 428, 430.)
 
Per
Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are
in the same department.  A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the
cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters
that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1048, subd. (a).)
 
California
Rules of Court rule 3.350 states:
“(a)
Requirements of motion
(1)  A notice of
motion to consolidate must:
(A)  List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record;
(B)  Contain the
captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered
case shown first; and
(C)  Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.
 
(2)  The motion to
consolidate:
(A)  Is deemed a
single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; 
(B)  Must be served
on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and
(C)  Must have a
proof of service filed as part of the motion.”
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
have satisfied all of the procedural requirements for a motion to consolidate under
California Rules of Court rule 3.350(a). 
 
Defendants
have also shown that there is good cause for consolidation of the two cases for
all purposes.  Both cases arise from the
same automobile accident occurring on April 20, 2021, Defendants are the same
in each matter, the witnesses and evidence will overlap to a significant
degree, and there are common legal and factual issues.
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
Accordingly the motion to consolidate for
all purposes is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to
consolidate for all purposes the Bludso Action (Case No. 22STCV32013) and the
County Action (Case No. 23STCV08177).  The
low numbered case is the lead case.  All
subsequent filings are to be made in the lead case.  All future hearings and dates in the County
Action are vacated.
 
Moving Party to give notice.