 Case Number:  22STCV23900    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Consolidate Cases filed by
Plaintiff Sergio Antonio Vega Campos
 
Tentative
 
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Jose E. Ayla Rios and Ruben Jimenez Baltazar (“Plaintiffs”)
filed their Complaint in this matter, Case No. 22STCV23900, on July 25, 2022 (the “Rios Action).  In the Rios Action, Plaintiff asserts causes
of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Sergio
Antonio Vega Campos (“Vega Campos”), Artemio Reyes Huertas (“Reyes Huertas”), and
Does 1 through 20, arising out of an alleged vehicle accident on June 7, 2021,
on Alameda Street between 109th and 110th Street in Los Angeles, California.
 
On November 9, 2022, Vega Campos filed his Answer to the
Complaint and a Cross-Complaint against Reyes Huertas and Roes 1 through 20.
 
On December 9, 2022, Reyes Huertas filed his Answer to
the Complaint and a Cross-Complaint against Vega Campos and Roes 1 through 100.  The Court, at the request of Reyes Huertas,
dismissed the Cross-Complaint with prejudice on January 31, 2024.
 
On December 19, 2022, Vega Campos filed his Answer to the
Cross-Complaint.
 
On June 7, 2023, Vega Campos filed the Complaint in a new
case, Case No. 23CMCV00836 (the “Vega Campos Action”), asserting causes of
action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Reyes
Huertas and Does 1 through 25.  The Vega
Campos Action appears to arise out of the same vehicle accident as the Rios
Action.  
 
On June 23, 2023, the Court deemed the Rios Action to be
related to the Vega Campos Action.
 
On November 7, 2023, Vega Campos filed this motion to
consolidate the two cases.  
 
On November 21, 2023, Reyes Huertas filed a demurrer to
the Complaint in the Vega Campos Action. 

 
On December 5, 2023, Reyes Huertas filed an opposition to
this motion to consolidate.
 
This motion to consolidate was heard on January 18,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing so
that the demurrer filed by Reyes Huertas in the Vega Campos Action could be
heard first.  The demurrer was heard and overruled
on February 8, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)
 
The
trial court should not consolidate actions where prejudice would result any
party, e.g., when consolidation would cause a litigant to need to adopt adverse
litigations positions in a single trial. 
(See State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47
Cal.2d 428, 430.)
 
Per
Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are
in the same department.  A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the
cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters
that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1048, subd. (a).)
 
California
Rules of Court rule 3.350 states:
“(a)
Requirements of motion
(1)  A notice of
motion to consolidate must:
(A)  List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record;
(B)  Contain the
captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered
case shown first; and
(C)  Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.
 
(2)  The motion to
consolidate:
(A)  Is deemed a
single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; 
(B)  Must be served
on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and
(C)  Must have a
proof of service filed as part of the motion.”
 
Discussion
 
Vega
Campos moves to consolidate the Rios Action and the Vega Campos Action.  Both cases arises out of the same automobile
accident and involve the same or overlapping parties.
 
As noted above, California Rules of Court,
rule 3.350 sets forth a number of procedural requirements for a motion to
consolidate.  One of those requirements
is that 
the notice of motion “must … [b]e filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.”  (Cal.
R. Ct., rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).  Here,
however, no notice of motion was filed in the Vega Campos Action.
Accordingly, the Court must deny the motion to
consolidate.  The denial is based on a
procedural defect and therefore is without prejudice. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES the motion to consolidate
without prejudice.
Moving Party to give notice.