 Case Number:  24STCV04894    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV04898




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Federico Carlo



 
Plaintiff Federico
Carlo (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendants”) for discrimination
and harassment.  Defendant demurs to the
second, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion.
 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Plaintiff’s second, third, fourth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action are for retaliation, discrimination, harassment, and
generally a hostile work environment under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA).  FEHA prohibits employment
discrimination on the basis of “race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, reproductive health
decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran
or military status . . . .”  (Gov. Code,
§ 12940, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendant discriminated
against him because he “was not affiliated with any deputy gangs and because
Plaintiff reported violations of law, his employment was abruptly terminated by
a deputy gang member.”  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 7.)  Lack of gang
affiliation is not a protected category under FEHA.  This allegation cannot support Plaintiff’s
claims under FEHA.  Plaintiff also
alleges a deputy sheriff with whom Plaintiff worked started a rumor that
Plaintiff did not get along with a sergeant at their work site because of a
failed romantic relationship.  Plaintiff
alleges this rumor was false.  (Id., Complaint, ¶ 17.)  Rumors based on the failure of a romantic
relationship do not constitute harassment based on a protected category under
FEHA.  
Likewise,
Plaintiff’s allegations Plaintiff’s co-worker challenged Plaintiff to a fight; Plaintiff’s
co-workers were upset about Plaintiff’s comments at a union meeting; and Plaintiff’s
co-workers were disruptive to Plaintiff’s work (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶  20-28) do not amount to actionable discrimination
under FEHA.  Plaintiff also alleges two
of Plaintiff’s co-workers falsely accused Plaintiff of sexually harassing them,
and falsely reported that Plaintiff had made a racist gesture.  (Id. , ¶¶ 29, 31, 33.)  Although Plaintiff includes allegations these
incidents were directed to him because of he is a heterosexual male (see, e.g.,
id., ¶ 61), there is no explanation concerning how that factored into
the incidents.  Again, this does not
amount to actionable conduct pursuant to FEHA. 

However, Plaintiff
alleges another deputy (Padilla) made “inappropriate sexual comments to
Plaintiff” and “texted Plaintiff sexually explicit statements and video clips .
. . [and] continuously told Plaintiff about the sexual relationships Padilla
had with many female academy recruits and described those sexual relations in
detail.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 18,
50.)  Plaintiff added he was transferred after
he complained about sexual harassment and reported illegal conduct and was subsequently
terminated. (Id., ¶¶ 48, 52.)  For
pleading purposes, and without factoring in Plaintiff’s conclusory statements
to the effect he was sexually harassed because he is a heterosexual male, these
allegations suffice to state a cause of action for a hostile work environment based
on sexual harassment.  (See Dickson v.
Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314 [“One of the
elements of a harassment claim pursuant to section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) is
that the harassment be sufficiently severe or pervasive so as to alter the
conditions of employment and create an abusive working environment”].)  These allegations also support Plaintiff’s
claim Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff for reporting the harassment and
failed to prevent such harassment.  Therefore, the Court overrules the
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, fourth,
sixth, and seventh causes of action but sustains the demurrer to the third
cause of action.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to the second, fourth, sixth,
and seventh causes of action in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is
overruled.  Although Plaintiff has already
had an opportunity to amend his claims, and an argument can be made any further
amendments would be futile, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the
third cause of action and will permit Plaintiff to have one last opportunity to
sufficiently plead that claim.  Plaintiff
is to file an amended complaint within 20 days. 

Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 