

 
BACKGROUND
 
The Complaint was filed on October 27, 2021, where Plaintiff alleged that
he sustained injuries as a result of being assaulted upon leaving Mama Shelter
by one or more security guards. Mama Shelter contracted with Draken Private
Security to provide security services for their premises, and Draken provided
Mama Shelter with a certificate of insurance, naming Mama Shelter as an
additional insured. After meeting and conferring, Plaintiff dismissed the Accor
entities and added Mama Shelter as a defendant. Mama Shelter tendered its
defense to Draken and Draken’s insurer, Mt. Hawley Insurance Company, for
Plaintiff’s claims against Mama Shelter. Initially, Mt. Hawley agreed to defend
Mama Shelter in a letter dated March 28, 2023. However, on September 6, 2023, Mt.
Hawley withdrew its agreement, leading Mama Shelter to file the present motion
to leave to file a cross-complaint for contribution, implied and express
indemnity, and declaratory relief against Draken under CCP § 428.10.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Neither Defendant Draken, nor Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the motion for leave.
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, a party against
whom a cause of action is asserted may file a cross-complaint to assert “[a]ny
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”  (CCP
§428.10 (b).)  
A party must obtain leave of court to file a
cross-complaint if the party does not file the cross-complaint at the same time
as the answer.  The court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint in the
interests of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (CCP
§428.50 (c).)   
Here, Defendant Mama Shelter contends that Defendant Draken
and Draken’s insurer, Mt. Hawley Insurance Company, agreed to provide security
services and named Mama Shelter as an additional insured on its insurance
policy, thereby assuming certain responsibilities to defend and potentially
indemnify Mama Shelter against claims arising from the security services
provided. (Ryan Decl. ¶ 4-5)
 “Undoubtedly, a
claim for contribution or indemnity ‘arises out of’ the same transaction or
occurrence as the plaintiff's claim.”  (Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 799.)  Thus, it is in the
interests of justice to permit Defendants to file the proposed cross-complaint,
as resolution of all issues pertaining to responsibility for Plaintiffs’
damages in one action is efficient.  The Court therefore grants the
motion. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendant’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
 
 