

 
 
Background
 
On May 25, 2022, Plaintiff Julie
Lawlor filed a personal injury lawsuit against Defendant BKM Office
Environments, Inc. (“BKM”), after an overhead cabinet allegedly fell on her
while she was working in her office at Providence Tarzana Medical Center. The
complaint centers on a single cause of action for negligence, accusing BKM of
negligently installing the overhead cabinet, leading to her injuries.
 
On August 9, 2023, Defendant BKM
filed a motion for summary judgment pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) 437c. In its motion, BKM argues that it cannot owe a duty of
care to the Plaintiff regarding the installation of the overhead cabinet, as it
did not directly install the cabinets. Instead, the installation was carried
out by an independent contractor, Leaders of Furniture (“Leaders”).  Moreover, BKM maintains that it cannot be
held vicariously liable for the alleged negligence of Leaders in installing the
overhead cabinet, as Leaders of Furniture is not an employee of BKM but an
independent contractor, thus precluding liability under the respondeat superior
doctrine.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App.
4th 1110, 1119. 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467. 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection[1]), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c). 
 
Analysis
 
1.     
Defendant’s Basis for MSJ
 
The elements of negligence include (1) a
legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3)
causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318. 
 
Defendant presents this motion for summary
judgment (MSJ) primarily on the premise that Plaintiff cannot prove the
existence of a duty of care. Defendant's argument is founded on two theories showing
the absence of duty or breach owed to the Plaintiff. The first theory argues
that Defendant did not install the cabinet that caused injury, and the second
theory argues that Defendant is not vicariously liable for the negligence of
Leaders in installing the cabinet, given that Leader is an independent
contractor and not an employee of Defendant.
 
2.     
First Theory of Negligent Installation
 
Defendant's first theory posits
that it cannot be held liable for negligent installation when the installation
was actually carried out by Leaders. Given the straightforward nature of this
argument, Defendant did not provide any case law to support this assertion,
suggesting it is self-explanatory. (Motion at pg. 7) 
3.     
Vicarious liability 
 
Defendant proposed an alternate
basis for avoiding liability by asserting that Leaders was an independent
contractor it had hired to install the cabinet, arguing that it should not be
held accountable for any negligence on Leaders' part. A person who hires an
independent contractor is generally not liable to third parties for injuries
caused by the contractor’s negligence in performing the work. (Johnson v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1097, 1107.) Central to this rule
of non-liability is the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had “no right to control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Id. citing Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693.)
For example, the hirer of an independent security agency is generally not
liable for the negligent torts of agency personnel “where the hirer did not
exercise control over them.” (Noble v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1973)
33 Cal.App.3d 654, 661.) The general rule of
nonliability is subject to numerous exceptions, such as the nondelegable duty
and peculiar risk doctrines. (Johnson v. Ralphs Grocery
Co., 204 Cal. App. 4th 1097, 1107.)

 
4.     
BMK and Leaders’
Relationship
 
Both of
Defendant’s theories depend on the relationship between it and Leaders vis-à-vis
the cabinet installation.  In this
regard, the first theory is that Defendant did not do the installation so it
cannot be liable, and the second, similar to the first, is that it also cannot
be vicariously liable because Lenders was an independent contractor, over which
Defendant did not have control.   Thus, in this analysis, the Court will focus
on the Defendant and Leaders relationship.  
 
A. Movant’s
Initial Burden
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510,
1519)
 
The
Court reviewed all the evidence submitted in support of the moving paper by the
movant to make a prima facie showing are no triable
issues of material fact. There are indeed certain facts showing that Leaders
was entirely responsible for the initial installation of the cabinet. For
example, Defendant employee Cesar Alvarez testified "the actual
installation work initially was done by Leaders of Furniture." (Exhibit B
to Defendant’s Compendium 15: 25-16: 1). 
He further stated that no BKM representatives were present during the
initial installation (Id. 27:5-7.) and that only Leaders staff were present
during the initial installation. (Id. 27:8-10.) These statements are
corroborated by a subcontractor installation report documenting the time Leaders'
employees spent on the initial installation (Exhibit E to Defendant’s
Compendium) and by the president of BKM’s declaration confirming BKM's
engagement of Leaders for the cabinet installation (Exhibit F to Defendant’s
Compendium ¶3).
 
However, evidence presented in the
moving papers also revealed that BKM played a role in the initial installation.
For instance, BKM approved the amount of hours Leaders worked, as stated in the
subcontract installation report authorizing the hours worked (Exhibit E to
Defendant’s Compendium; Exhibit B to Defendant’s Compendium 29:21-24). Alvarez
further acknowledged BKM's onsite presence during the initial installation (Id.
30:24), contradicting his earlier testimony that no one from BKM was present. (Id.
27:5-7.) Alvarez stated that he was on site on the first day for an hour or
two, providing necessary bars and hardware to Leader’s workers and ensuring
correct installation measurements (Id. 32:17; 34:25). Furthermore, BKM
inspected the installation on day one to make sure things “look in place where
they are suppose to be at.” (Id. 36:23-25) Alvarez returned on the
second day to supervise again (Id. 38:21-23). 
 
When viewed in the light most
favorable to Plaintiff, a triable issue of fact exists regarding Defendant’s
involvement in the installation of the initial cabinet. The evidence provided
by Defendant itself showed its involvement in the installation process, such as
providing the appropriate bars and hardware, ensuring the accuracy of the
installation measurements, and supervision of the cabinet installation by its
employees. Thus, Defendant has not satisfied its initial burden for summary
judgment. 
 
B. Responding Party’s Burden
 
“Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
Assuming, for the sake of argument,
that Defendant BKM satisfied its initial burden, Plaintiff introduces new
evidence that raises disputes over material facts. For instance, Plaintiff
introduces email showing that BKM had control over (1) the number of workers
from Leaders required for the initial installation and (2) the time and
location of the installation. (Exhibit C to Plaintiff’s Compendium.) Plaintiff
also introduced an email showing Defendant’s control over the exact time in
which the installation starts. (Exhibit D to Plaintiff’s Compendium.)
Additionally, Plaintiff points to BKM employee Cesar Alvarez testimony that
Leaders did not provide any materials for the installation, indicating a level
of control over how the installation was done by BKM (Exhibit B to Plaintiff’s
Compendium 105:3-5). This evidence presented by Plaintiff shows that there is a
triable issue of fact over BKM’s control over the manner in which the initial
installation was executed and whether or not Leaders is a independent
contractor of BKM. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant's motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.
 


