  Case Number:  22STCV14001    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 29, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         S.J. and H.J., minors, through Nathan J.
and Shari E., their guardians ad litem, v. Portola Charter Middle School, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV14001            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION (x2) 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs S.J.
and H.J., by and through their guardians ad litem Nathan Johnson and Shari
Edwards.  
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for injunctive relief filed on April 27, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to offer independent study in
violation of sections 51745 and 51747 of the Education Code.
 
Defendant moves to compel
depositions for Nathan Johnson and Shari Edwards. 
            
Tentative  RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Shari Edwards is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Nathan Johnson is DENIED as moot.  
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on the payment of $60 in filing fees within 10 days of
this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Shari Edwards
 
            Defendant
moves to compel the deposition of Shari Edwards. 
 
Two Motions in One
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Defendant improperly combined
two Motions to Compel Deposition into a single filing. Combining multiple
motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates
the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.
Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives
the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect, notwithstanding
that one of these motions has since been mooted, as discussed infra.
 
            The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$60 in filing fees within 10 days of this order.
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) Further, where production of documents is sought in
connection with the deposition, the motion must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet-and-confer declaration stating facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
The declaration of Defendant’s counsel
states that the parties exchanged extensive correspondence between October 16,
2023, and December 6, 2023 to schedule the deposition of the adult Plaintiffs.
(Declaration of M. Cristina Cruz ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-24; Exhs. A-I.)  Close examination of the evidence shows,  however, that Defendant merely demanded
depositions on certain dates, and, when advised that Shari Edwards would not be
available before January 8, unilaterally noticed a deposition for December 6.
(Cruz Decl. ¶¶ 12, 16, Exhs. G, H.) When Ms. Edwards did not appear for that
deposition, this motion followed on December 13, a week later. (Id. ¶
20.) Unilateral demands for specific deposition dates that ignore statements of
unavailability do not constitute a good faith attempt at an informal
resolution. Defendant has not satisfied its meet-and-confer obligations.
However, in the interest of an expedient resolution of this matter, the Court
will address the motion on the merits. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel the deposition of Shari Edwards. 
 
            On October
16, 2023, Defendants served a notice for Shari Edwards’s deposition to occur November
1, 2023, via electronic service. (Cruz Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Plaintiffs objected
to that notice on the bases that the deponent was unavailable and that the date
had been unilaterally noticed. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. C.) After the insufficient
meet-and-confer efforts described above, Defendant unilaterally noticed another
deposition for December 6, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 12-16; Exhs. G-H.) Plaintiff
did not appear. (Id. ¶ 20.) This motion followed, but, in the interim,
subsequent deposition notices were served, first for March 15, 2024, based on
representations of availability. (Supplemental Declaration of M. Cristina Cruz
ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-6, Exh. M.) However, the day before that deposition, Plaintiff’s
counsel confirmed that the deponent was not available and would not appear. (Id.
¶¶ 8-9; Exh. L.) Following further discussion, the parties agreed on May 23, 2024,
and noticed a deposition for that date. (Id. ¶¶ 12-13; Exh. O.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues in opposition that this motion is unnecessary and mooted by the May 23
deposition. Defendant contends in reply that Plaintiff’s counsel indicated on
May 20, 2024 that the deposition would not go forward on May 23 because Shari Edwards
wishes to no longer serve as Guardian ad Litem. (Declaration of M. Cristina
Cruz ISO Reply Exh. A.) Defendant argues that so long as she remains a named
Guardian ad Litem, Ms. Edwards is a valid deponent in this action.  On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
application for an order appointing Nathan Johnson as the new guardian ad litem
for Plaintiff H.J., thereby removing Ms. Edwards as guardian ad litem. That
order was granted the same date. (Order for Appointment of Guardian ad Litem.) The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs’ argument has force, and Defendant no
longer has a valid basis to pursue the deposition of Shari Edwards as a party
to this action. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
also requests sanctions on this motion. However, as Defendant is not the
prevailing party, Defendant is not entitled to sanctions. 
 
//
 
Conclusion
 
            For the
reasons above, Defendant’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Shari Edwards is
DENIED. 
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Nathan Johnson
 
            Although
the motion also seeks to compel the deposition of Nathan Johnson, the body of
the moving papers does not address that deposition, and Plaintiffs contend that
the deposition has already taken place. As the parties do not appear to have a
genuine dispute regarding the deposition of Nathan Johnson, the Court therefore
finds that this motion is MOOT. 
            
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Shari Edwards is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Nathan Johnson is MOOT.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on the payment of $60 in filing fees within 10 days of
this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: May 29, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 
 
 