 Case Number:  22STCV32478    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 29, 2024             TRIAL DATE: February
25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Ken Houang, et al. v. Rochelle H.
Sterling, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV32478            
 
MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Shelley Houang, as Guardian ad Litem for
Plaintiff Liam Kenneth Houang
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants
Rochelle H. Sterling, individually and as trustee of the Sterling Family Trust,
and Beverly Hills Properties, LLC. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action that was filed on October 4, 2022.
Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at a residential apartment complex, allege
that Defendants permitted the premises to develop extensive uninhabitable
conditions and allowed those conditions to persist in violation of statutes and
municipal ordinances. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Plaintiff Shelley Houang, as
Guardian ad Litem for minor Plaintiff Liam Kenneth Houang, moves for trial
preference. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial
Preference is GRANTED. 
 
            Trial
in this action is set for Thursday, September 26, 2024 at 10:00 AM pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 36(b). The Court sets a Final Status Conference
for 9:00 AM on Thursday, September 12, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff Shelley Houang, as
Guardian ad Litem for minor Plaintiff Liam Kenneth Houang  (age 4), moves for trial preference. 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
36(b) specifically provides: 
 
A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference
upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless
the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case
as a whole. A civil action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference
over a case subject to this subdivision.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 36(b) [bold
emphasis and underline added].) If granted, the Court “shall set the matter for
trial not more than 120 days from that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f).) Trial
preference under section 36(b) is mandatory. (Peters v. Superior Court
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 223.) 
 
Service on or Appearance of All Essential Parties
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 36(c), a motion for trial preference by a party not
of 70 years of age must be accompanied by a declaration that all essential
parties have been served with process or have appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. §
36(c)(1).) The Complaint in this action was filed on October 4, 2022. (See
Complaint.) Defendant Beverly Hills Properties, LLC filed its answer on
December 27, 2022. (Answer to Complaint and Demand for Jury Trial.) Defendant
Sterling filed her answer on January 23, 2023. (See Answer.) Plaintiffs’
counsel declares that there are no other parties to this case and that all
Defendants have made a general appearance. (Declaration of Gerald S. Ohn ISO
Mot. ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs have shown that all Defendants have either been served
with process or appeared in this action. 
 
Entitlement to Preference
 
            Plaintiff
Shelley Houang brings this motion as guardian ad litem for the minor Plaintiff
in this action. Plaintiffs offer evidence from the parents of the minor
Plaintiff, as presented in their responses to interrogatories, that the minor
Plaintiff has suffered various health issues which they contend are the result
of the conditions at the property. (Ohn Decl. Exhs. B-C.) Plaintiffs thus contend
that the minor Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the outcome of this
case.
 
Defendants argue that the issuance
of a preferential trial date would infringe on their due process rights and
severely prejudice their position. As Defendants concede, however, no court has
ever held that granting trial preference would be a violation of a party’s due
process rights. The cases relied upon by Defendants merely acknowledge that a
party has raised an unresolved due process question without reaching the merits
of the argument. (Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d. 218,
227; Roe v. Superior Court (Sheldon) (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 642, 643.) Because
these authorities do not reach the due process question, the Court finds them
unpersuasive and distinguishable in the face of express statements in both
statute and case law that the Court has no discretion to deny trial preference
when the provisions of section 36(b) are met. (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f); Peters
v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 223.) Defendants’ prejudice
arguments are therefore immaterial. 
 
The Court therefore finds that the
minor Plaintiff is entitled to preferential setting of trial in this matter. 
 
Alternative Remedies
 
            Defendants
request that if the Court is inclined to grant trial preference, the trial date
should be set at the outside limit of 120 days, that the Court specially set a
hearing for Defendants’ summary judgment motion, and that unspecified
accommodations be made to filing dates and deadlines that are governed by the
trial date. The Court is inclined to set the trial date at the outer limit of
120 days, as doing so most fairly balances the interests of the parties and the
Court’s interest in the management of its docket. Defendants provide no
authority or factual justification for an order specially setting a hearing on
a summary judgment motion which might abrogate the statutory notice period and
time to be heard. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(a)(2)-(3).) Nor do Defendants
specify what accommodations they seek in sufficient detail to permit the Court
to address their reasonableness. 
Accordingly, the Court declines to make any additional scheduling orders
on this record.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            For
the reasons above, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED. 
 
            Trial
in this action is set for Thursday, September 26, 2024, at 10:00 AM pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 36(b). The Court sets a Final Status Conference
for 9:00 AM on Thursday, September 12, 2024. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 29, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 