  Case Number:  23PSCV00729    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
(1)   PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES
TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION AND INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE AND REQUEST FOR
$1,860.00 IN SANCTIONS is GRANTED. 
(2)   PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES
TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE AND REQUEST FOR $1,860.00 IN SANCTIONS is GRANTED.

 
Sanctions are granted in the total amount (i.e., for BOTH
motions) of $1,920. Additionally, for clarity as to the
RFA motion, the court ONLY grants the motion insofar as to compel responses;
the  matters are NOT deemed admitted [see
infra]. The court requests Plaintiff to provide proposed order(s) that comport with
the ruling. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from the dog bite of a minor. 
 
On March 13,
2023, Plaintiff Lidia Gonzalez as Guardian Ad Litem for Ronny Gonzalez filed
suit against Defendants Manuel Castro, Maria Rosario Castro, Lucia Melo for (1)
general negligence and (2) premises liability.
 
On August 29, 2023, default was entered against
Lucia Melo and Maria Rosario Castro. 
 
On September
13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a POS as to Estate of Manuel Castro, sued herein as
DOE 1.[1]
 
On September
14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a notice of lis pendens.
 
On October
19, 2023, the court issued the following minute order during the CMC hearing:
“The Court informs the Defendant, Maria Rosario Castro, that she is currently
in Default Status. On the Court’s own motion pursuant to CCP §403.040(a), the
matter is set for a Walker Hearing as to whether the matter should be
reclassified as a limited jurisdiction case under Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257. The parties are ordered to file briefs nine (9) calendar
days before the scheduled hearing. If a party so desires, it may file a reply
brief five (5) calendar days before the scheduled hearing.”
 
On November
6, 2023, default was entered as to the estate. 
 
On December
5, 2023, the court issued, in pertinent part, the following minute order re:  Hearing on Motion to Reclassify (Walker
Motion); Status Conference Re: Representation of Defendant, Maria Rosario
Castro; Case Management Conference: “The Defendant's oral motion for a
continuance to hire Private Counsel is heard and GRANTED.” Based thereon, the
court continued the hearing on the motion to reclassify (Walker motion) and “In
light of the above and by Order of the Court, the matter is reserved for
February 15, 2024, at the Pomona Courthouse in Department O at 10:00 a.m. for a
Hearing on Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment.”
 
On January
10, 2024, the court stated, in pertinent part, the following during the Case
Management Conference; Hearing on Motion to Reclassify (Walker Motion); Status
Conference Re: Representation of Defendant, Maria Rosario Castro: “Plaintiff's
Counsel and the Defendant stipulate to vacate the Default as to Defendant Maria
Rosario Castro ONLY. Pursuant to the stipulation, the Defendant is to file an
answer ONLY. The Court orders the default entered on 08/24/2023 as to Maria
Rosario Castro vacated. The Defendant is given 30 days to Answer only. The
Defendant is ordered to file an Answer due on or before February 9, 2024. The
Defaults as to Defendants Lucia Melo and the Estate of Manuel Castro are to
remain.” That same day, Plaintiff filed an application for entry of default
judgment against Lucia. 
 
On February
5, 2024, Maria filed her answer.[2]

 
On April 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed a brief in opposition to the court’s motion pursuant to
CCP 403.040(A) to reclassify case to limited jurisdiction. 
 
On April 19,
2024, the court’s minute order reflected the following: Motion to Reclassify
(Walker Motion) is DENIED. Plaintiff’s Application for Entry of Default
Judgment Re: (1) Maria is DENIED in that she is not in default and (2) Lucia is
DENIED without prejudice.
  
 On July 17, 2024, the court held an IDC. The
court’s minute order provides in relevant part the following:
 
The Court and Counsel confer re: discovery sought by Plaintiff's
Counsel, specifically requests for admissions provided to Defendant at the end
of March 2024 with a deadline of May 2024. The Defendant is to provide the answer for request for
admission set 1 and form interrogatories due on or before September 3, 2024.
Plaintiff's Counsel is to provide the Court with a Stipulation and Order due on
or before tomorrow July 18, 2024.
 
On October 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the two instant
discovery motions. To date, no opposition has been received. 
 
Discussion
 
Prior to the
IDC, Plaintiff’s Counsel represents that he sent two meet and confer letters to
Defendant, but Defendant failed to answer Plaintiff’s letters. After the IDC on
September 16, 2024 Plaintiff's counsel sent a third Meet and Confer letter to
Defendant with a copy of Plaintiff's RFAs and Plaintiff's Demand for Production
of Documents after Defendant called Plaintiff's counsel office and stated she
misplaced these Discovery requests. (See Motions p. 3.) Plaintiff counsel gave
Defendant until September 30, 2024 to provide responses to both
discovery requests without any objection. However, to date, Defendant has
failed to provide verified, objection-free, complete responses Plaintiff's
discovery or otherwise correspond with Plaintiff’s Counsel. Therefore, the court
compels Defendant to provide complete, full, and verified responses to the
discovery requests. 
 
Notwithstanding,
as to the RFAs, the propounder of the RFAs
must “move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction” under § 2023.010 et seq. [CCP §
2033.280(b).)  Here, however, the motion’s caption does
not seek the requests be deemed admitted nor does the motion substantively seek
that relief; instead, there is a mere mention in the legal standard. Therefore,
the requests are NOT deemed admitted; the court only orders Defendant to
respond. 
 
As for sanctions, the relevant statutes contain mandatory
sanction provisions. Sanctions must be awarded against a party or attorney who
unsuccessfully opposes a Motion to Compel responses, unless the court finds the
party of attorney acted with substantial justification, or other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. As the court informed Defendant
during the IDC of the importance of serving responses, as Plaintiff provided an
additional extension, as no meet and confer was required as these are not
motions dealing with inadequate responses, and as Defendant has not served
responses nor an opposition to provide any reason as to why responses have not
been served, the court must impose monetary sanctions. Per motion,
Counsel seeks $,1860 (calculated as follows: 4 hours of work/motion for
drafting motions and meet and confer letters at $450/hour + $60 filing fee/motion).

 
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
court reduces the hourly rate to $300/hour and reduces the hours
expended on the motion to 6 hours (as the motions are nearly identical) for
a total of $1,920 for both motions ($1,800 + $120 filing fees). 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on
the foregoing, both motions are granted, and sanctions are awarded but in the
reduced amount of $1,920 for both motions.  


