 Case Number:  23SMCV03276    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Castellanos,
et al., v. Budelis, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03276
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   10/16/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP section 2031.010 inspection demand, the demanding party must
seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. Thus,
unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he
or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no
showing of "good cause" is required. 
 
ANALYSIS 
Defendant Ultra Gate Corporation moves for an order compelling
Plaintiff Jose Castellanos to respond to its Form Interrogatories, Set One, without
objections within ten days, and its Request for Production, Set One,
without objections within ten days. Defendant requests sanctions of $860.00 per
motion.
On May 31,
2024, Defendant served Plaintiff Castellanos with its initial
set of discovery, which included the subject Request for Production and Form
Interrogatories. (Farahmand Decl. ¶4; Ex. A.) As Defendant did not receive
timely responses, on July 3, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff,
granting a courtesy two-week extension for Plaintiff to respond. (Farahmand
Decl. ¶6; Ex. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to the letter or the
discovery. (Farahmand Decl. ¶7.) To date, Plaintiff has failed to respond to the
outstanding discovery. Defendant has shown that its discovery was duly served
on Plaintiff, and Plaintiff failed to respond within the allotted time. 
Accordingly, the motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objection within ten days to the subject discovery. Sanctions are imposed in the noticed amount of $1,720.00 against
Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and severally. Sanctions are to be
paid within 30 days.  Further responses
are ordered within 20 days.