 Case Number:  22STCV09144    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARIA CISNEROS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV09144
  Hearing Date:  July 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for protective order 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Maria Cisneros commenced
this action against Defendant Ford Motor Company on May 15, 2022. The Complaint
asserts causes of action for violations of the Song Beverly Act. Plaintiff’s
claims arise from her purchase of a 2020 Ford Explorer. 
            On June 14, 2024, Defendant Ford
filed the instant motion for protective order. Plaintiff filed her opposition
on June 21, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The recipient of a discovery request may
move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, 2031.060,
2033.080.) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Ibid.) “The
issuance and formulation of protective orders are to a large extent
discretionary.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 316.) “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.” (Id. at p. 318.)

DISCUSSION
I.
Good Cause
A protective order may be used to prevent
disclosure of “a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or
commercial information.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060(b)(5).) 
Ford seeks a protective order to protect
certain confidential documents including warranty manuals, customer care
policies and procedures, and global contact center records. (Doss Decl. ¶ 6.)
Such information is “proprietary to Ford” and “would be of value to Ford’s
competitors or could be used to cause injury to Ford if such information were
made public.” (Id., ¶ 4.) Specifically, Ford’s policies reveal its
processes and methodologies which were developed over time and with
considerable investment. (Id., ¶¶ 9-11.) The call center records contain
personal identifying information on individual customers. (Id., ¶ 12.)
This establishes good cause for a protective order.  
Plaintiff argues that Ford has not shown
good cause because Ford has not substantiated its privilege objection as to its
customer relations and warranty policies. Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.240(c)(1), which requires an objection based upon
privilege to be substantiated by a privilege log containing sufficient
information to evaluate the merits of the privilege claim. Plaintiff contends
that Ford has provided no such information. 
First, the applicability of the protective
order to specific documents does not negate good cause for the entry of a
protective order. The protective order itself sets forth a procedure for designating
documents as confidential. Plaintiff does not dispute that a protective order
is warranted to at least protect the call center records containing personal
identifying information. Second, the requirement to produce a privilege log to
justify a privilege objection is not a requirement for entry of a protective
order. Although the moving party bears the burden of establishing good cause
for a protective order, there is no authority requiring a privilege log to show
good cause. The Doss declaration explains why the information is proprietary
and confidential and sufficiently establishes good cause.  
II.
Proposed Revisions  
Ford has proposed a protective order based
on the LASC model order, with certain adjustments. In particular, Ford seeks to
modify paragraphs 7, 8, and 21 in the following manner: (a) clarify who is
subject to the protective order, including attorneys and non-attorneys who may
have access to Ford’s confidential information through their retention in the
case; (b) preclude the receiving party from posting or advertising for sale any
confidential information from Ford; and (c) outline the process for the return
or destruction of Ford’s documents upon conclusion of the case. 
Plaintiff argues that such revisions are
unnecessary in this case because Ford has agreed to the standard LASC model
order in other cases. Ford’s conduct in unrelated cases does not change the
fact that Ford has established good cause for the protective order in this
case. Plaintiff does not contend that Ford’s proposed revisions are
unreasonable, unduly burdensome, or prejudicial. That Ford did not propose such
revisions in other cases is not a reason to disallow them in this case. Ford is
not forever precluded from proposing its own protective order merely because it
used the unrevised LASC model in previous cases. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Ford’s motion for
protective order is GRANTED. The protective order shall be the LASC model order
with Ford’s proposed revisions to paragraphs 7, 8, and 21.  
 