 Case Number:  23STCV11064    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PINNACLE APPLIANCE DISTRIBUTORS, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
WEBCOR CONSTRUCTION, LP,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV11064
  Hearing Date:  July 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff and cross-complainant
  pinnacle’s motion for leave to file amended cross-complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff and
Cross-Complainant Pinnacle Appliance Distributors, Inc. (Pinnacle) filed this
action against Defendants Webcor Construction, LP (Webcor) and Maguire
Properties – 775 South Figueroa, LLC (Maguire). Pinnacle filed the operative
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on August 29, 2023. The SAC asserts causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (3) trade libel, and (4) recovery on mechanics
lien release bond. The first three causes of action are asserted against
Webcor, and the fourth cause of action is asserted against Maguire. 
            The complaint alleges that Pinnacle
entered into a contract with Webcor to serve as the subcontractor on a project
in which Webcor was the general contractor. Maguire is the alleged owner of the
subject property. Webcor allegedly refused to pay Pinnacle for the work that
Pinnacle performed. Through this action, Pinnacle seeks to recover the unpaid
amount and other damages caused by Webcor’s alleged actions. Pinnacle also
seeks to recover on a mechanics lien attached to the subject property.  
            On October 2, 2023, Webcor filed a
cross-complaint against Pinnacle, asserting breach of contract and indemnity.
Webcor alleges that Pinnacle performed defective work and caused delays,
resulting in damages to Webcor and other subcontractors. Webcor seeks to
recover damages for Pinnacle’s alleged breach of contract and for indemnity of
any liabilities arising from the same, including amounts paid to other
subcontractors to correct the defects allegedly caused by Pinnacle. 
            On October 31, 2023, Pinnacle filed
a cross-complaint against Pan-Pacific Mechanical, LLC (Pan-Pacific) for
indemnity. Pan-Pacific was a plumbing subcontractor hired by Webcor for the
project. Pinnacle alleges that Pan-Pacific, at Webcor’s direction, improperly
installed certain gas lines, which is what actually caused the delays and
damages claimed in Webcor’s cross-complaint. Pinnacle therefore seeks indemnity
against Pan-Pacific for the damages asserted by Webcor against Pinnacle. 
            On June 11, 2024, Pinnacle filed the
instant motion for leave to file an amended cross-complaint. Pinnacle seeks to
add a new cross-defendant, G&M Appliance Supply, Inc. (G&M). The
proposed amended cross-complaint alleges that Pinnacle entered into a purchase
order agreement with G&M for the installation of certain appliances. Under
the purchase order, G&M was allegedly required to conform to specifications
and industry standards in the installation of the appliances. Therefore,
Pinnacle seeks indemnity from G&M as well. 
            There is no opposition to the
motion. In fact, the existing parties to the action—Pinnacle, Webcor, and
Pan-Pacific—have stipulated to the filing of the amended cross-complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc, §§ 473(a), 576.) Courts must apply a policy of liberality in
permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding, including during trial,
when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown. (Duchrow v. Forrest
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377.) In determining the extent of prejudice to
the opposing party, the court must consider various factors, such as whether
the amendment would delay trial or increase the discovery burden. (Demetriades
v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 294, 306.)
A motion for leave to amend a complaint
must be accompanied by a declaration that explains: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1324(b).)
DISCUSSION
            Pinnacle’s counsel’s declaration
satisfies the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b). (See Wolfenzon Decl. ¶¶ 2-5, Ex.
A.) There is no opposition to the motion and no claim of any prejudice.
Therefore, Pinnacle is entitled to amend its cross-complaint.
CONCLUSION
            Pinnacle’s motion for leave to file
amended cross-complaint is GRANTED. Amended Cross-Complaint shall be filed
within 10 days of this order.  
 