  Case Number:  22STCV14618    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
2, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Karen
Lin v. Balenciaga America Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV14618

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Balenciaga America Inc. & Defendant Alejandro Ortega
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Karen Lin
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
By Defendant Balenciaga:
1.      An
Order granting summary judgment in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor for the entire
Complaint;
2.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
first cause of action because Plaintiff was not subjected to intolerable or
aggravated working conditions and a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position
would not have resigned;
3.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
first cause of action because Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse employment
action;
4.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
first cause of action because Defendant Balenciaga acted for legitimate,
non-discriminatory reasons, and there is no evidence of discriminatory animus
or pretext;
5.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
second cause of action because Plaintiff did not suffer any actionable
harassment;
6.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
third cause of action because Plaintiff was not subjected to intolerable or
aggravated working conditions and a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position
would not have resigned;
7.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
third cause of action because Defendant Balenciaga’s employment decisions were
justified and there is no evidence of pretext or discriminatory motive;
8.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’s favor as to the
fourth cause of action because there is no evidence of extreme and outrageous
conduct; and
9.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Balenciaga’ favor as to
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages because there is no clear and convincing
evidence that any officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant Balenciaga
acted with fraud, malice or oppression.
By Defendant Ortega:
1.      An
Order granting summary judgment in Defendant Ortega’s favor for the entire
Complaint;
2.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Ortega’s favor as to the
second cause of action because Plaintiff did not suffer any actionable
harassment by Defendant Ortega;
3.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Ortega’s favor as to the
fourth cause of action because there is no evidence of extreme and outrageous
conduct by Defendant Ortega which was intended to, and did, cause Plaintiff
extreme emotional distress; and
4.      An
Order granting summary adjudication in Defendant Ortega’s favor as to
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages because Plaintiff cannot establish clear
and convincing evidence of fraud, malice, or oppression by Defendant Ortega.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Motions Denied in Part and Granted in Part
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 3, 2022, Plaintiff Karen Lin (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Balenciaga America, Inc., and Alejandro Ortega
(“Defendants.”). The complaint alleged four causes of action: (1)
Discrimination on the basis of National Origin in Violation of FEHA, (2)
Harassment on the basis of National Origin in Violation of FEHA, (3)
Constructive Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, and (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that she worked for Defendant starting in
2018. During her time there, Plaintiff alleges that she was discriminated
against based on her national origin. Plaintiff was harassed, singled out, and
humiliated because Plaintiff was Chinese. Because of various incidents of
discrimination, the only other associate of Chinese national origin was forced
to quit in 2020, leaving Plaintiff the only associate of Chinese national
origin. Eventually, Plaintiff was forced to leave her position due to the
discriminatory nature of Defendants.  
 
On July 22, 2022, Defendants Balenciaga America, Inc., and
Alejandro Ortega filed an Answer.  
 
On May 5, 2023, Defendant Balenciaga America, Inc., filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication.  
 
On May 5, 2023, Defendant Ortega filed a Joinder to Motion
for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication.  
 
On May 15, 2023, Defendant Ortega filed a Motion for
Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication.
 
On May 19, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue the
hearing on Defendants’ MSJs to August 2, 2023.
 
On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff moved ex parte to continue the hearing on Defendants’ MSJs. The court
GRANTED Plaintiff’s ex parte
application and continued the hearing date to October 20, 2023. 
 
On October 10, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue the
hearing on Defendants’ MSJs to February 2, 2024. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to
Defendants’ MSJs.
 
On January 26, 2024, Defendants’ filed replies.
 
On February 2, 2024, the Court conducted the initial
hearing on the MSJ. The Court continued the matter in order for counsel to file
an updated separate statement and additional points and authorities not to
exceed seven pages based upon the holding of Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal. App. 5th 865.
 
On March 4, 2024, Defendant Balenciaga filed updated
filings.
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed updated filings. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The court declines to rule on the objections as
immaterial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)  
 
Summary
Judgment
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP § 437c(a).) To prevail on a motion
for summary judgment, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law. (CCP § 437c(c).) In other words, the opposing party cannot
present contrary admissible evidence to raise a triable factual dispute. 
¿ 
When a plaintiff alleges a cause of action for
discrimination under FEHA, California courts apply the three-step
burden-shifting test set forth by the United States Supreme Court in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v Green (1973)
411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell Douglas) to
evaluate the claim. (Reid v. Google, Inc.
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 520 (Reid); Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 354 (Guz).) The
McDonnell Douglas test “reflects the principle that direct evidence of
intentional discrimination is rare, and that such claims must usually be proved
circumstantially.” (Guz, supra, at p. 354.) 
Under the three-part McDonnell
Douglas test, the plaintiff has the initial burden of establishing a prima
face case of discrimination by providing evidence that “(1) he [or she] was a
member of a protected class, (2) he [or she] was qualified for the position he
[or she] sought or was performing competently in the position he [or she] held,
(3) he [or she] suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination . .
., and 4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 355.) If the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case, “a
presumption of discrimination arises.” (Ibid.)
At this stage, “the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the presumption by
producing admissible evidence, sufficient to ‘raise[ ] a genuine issue of fact’
and to ‘justify a judgment for the [employer],’ that its action was taken for a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.” [Citations.]” (Id. at pp. 355-356.) “If the employer sustains this burden, the
presumption of discrimination disappears. [Citations.] The plaintiff must then
have the opportunity to attack the employer’s proffered reasons as pretexts for
discrimination, or to offer any other evidence of discriminatory motive.
[Citations.]” (Id. at p. 356.) 
 
In the context of a motion for summary judgment, “an
employer may satisfy its initial burden of proving a cause of action has no
merit by showing either that one or more elements of the prima facie case ‘is
lacking, or that the adverse employment action was based on legitimate
nondiscriminatory factors.’ [Citations.]” (Husman
v. Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1168, 1181-1182.) If the
employer shows it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action,
the plaintiff “‘may establish pretext “either directly by persuading the court
that a discriminatory reason more likely motivated the employer or indirectly
by showing that the employer’s proffered explanation is unworthy of
credence.”’” (Morgan v. Regents of
University of California (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 68-69.) “In responding
to the employer’s showing of a legitimate reason for the complained-of action,
the plaintiff cannot ‘“simply show the employer’s decision was wrong, mistaken,
or unwise. Rather, the employee ‘“must demonstrate such weaknesses,
implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the
employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable
factfinder could rationally find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ [citation], and
hence infer ‘that the employer did not act for the [asserted]
non-discriminatory reasons.’”’”’ [Citations.]” (McRae v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 377, 389-390.) “[A]n employer is entitled to summary judgment if,
considering the employer’s innocent explanation for its actions, the evidence
as a whole is insufficient to permit a rational inference that the employer’s
actual motive was discriminatory.” (Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 361.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Issues 1, 2, 3
& 6 – National Origin Discrimination (First Cause of Action: Defendant
Balenciaga Only)
 
Defendant Balenciaga contends that Plaintiff cannot
establish a prima facie case of discrimination because she did not suffer an
adverse employment action and, even assuming Plaintiff could establish a prima
facie case, Defendant Balenciaga satisfied its burden of articulating
legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions. Defendant Balenciaga
further contends there is no competent evidence of discriminatory animus or
pretext. Plaintiff argues that Defendant Balenciaga’s language policy was per
se unlawful and discriminatory under Gov. Code § 12951 or Cal. Code Regs. tit.
2, § 11028. Plaintiff further argues that there is a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Defendant Balenciaga articulated legitimate
non-discriminatory reasons for its actions. 
 
To establish a prima facie case for discrimination under the
FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2)
he was qualified for the position he sought or was performing competently in
the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse employment action, such as
termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4) some other
circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
There is no dispute that Plaintiff satisfied the first two
elements. There is tremendous conflict as to the latter two elements. The Court
will discuss the factors in inverse order.
 
Circumstance suggesting
discriminatory motive
 
The event that ultimately triggered this lawsuit occurred on
July 15, 2020, when Plaintiff and Defendant Ortega had a disagreement on whether
Plaintiff was entitled to an approximate $400 commission on a seven-thousand-dollar
sale. Defendant Balenciaga sided with Defendant Ortega. Plaintiff believed that
this was the final straw in a series of events that made her working conditions
so intolerable that she was forced to resign i.e. was constructively discharged.[1]
Defendants contend Plaintiff voluntarily resigned on August 5, 2020. 
 
In addition to the commission dispute, the intolerable
working conditions can be summarized as follows:
 
(1)   Over
a year earlier, shortly after commencing work at Defendant Balenciaga, Plaintiff
had a conversation with Defendant Ortega where he claimed that he had two employees
at his prior employer fired. Plaintiff
knew these individuals. They were of Chinese descent.
(2)   About
eight months earlier, Defendant Ortega complaint to management that Plaintiff
called him a “crackhead.” Plaintiff denied the allegation. Defendant Balenciaga
took no action.[2]
(3)   On
October 23, 2019, while attending a morning meeting, Assistant Store Manager
Brittany Montgomery asked Plaintiff to button her top button of her uniform.[3]
(4)   In
September 2019, co-worker Taylor Yun told store management that she felt excluded
when Plaintiff and another co-worker spoke “Chinese.” Plaintiff contends she was
prohibited from speaking Chinese. Defendant Balenciaga denies such a prohibition
was implemented but rather  manager
Montgaillard simply asked Plaintiff to be mindful of other employees’ feelings.
(5)   At
her deposition, for the first time, Plaintiff alleged that Montgaillard
repeatedly referred to COVID as a Chinese Virus. [4]
 
Plaintiff claims that all of this complained of conduct was
founded based on her national origin or race-Chinese. (Complaint ¶¶ 14, 15, 21,
22, 23, 26, 27, 34, 40, 41, and 47.)
 
The Court has carefully reviewed  the initial Separate Statements, the updated
settlement statements as well as the actual
underlying evidence attached as exhibits. Of the six events listed above, Plaintiff
offered evidence, through her testimony, that if believed could support discriminatory
motive to two of these occurrences.
 
Number (4) the language
disagreement
Plaintiff testified that she was pulled into meeting with
Brittany and Audrey, who told her:
“That speaking Chinese forbidden and we can only speak
English. . . .They said I could not speak Chinese to my colleague.” (Krill Dec.
Ex. A: p. 62:17-18, p. 62:25-p. 63:1.) “They said, “Never speak Chinese.” (Krill
Dec. Ex. A: p. 63;5.) Plaintiff was adamant that they both made these pronouncements.
“Both of them. One kind of said it, and the other agreed.” (Krill Dec. Ex. A p.
63:6-8.) Defendant challenges the veracity of these events, insisting that they
never prohibited Plaintiff from speaking Chinese.
 
(5) the alleged
incidents where COVID is referred to as the “Chinese Virus.” 
 
Plaintiff testified that Montgaillard “was constantly
reminding me how COVID was from China.” (Krill Dec. Ex. A:  p.266:11-16.) Montgaillard denies making any
such comments.
 
While Defendant Balenciaga vehemently denies the allegations,
Plaintiff has sufficiently raised a triable issued of disputed fact  suggesting
national origin or race played a role in these two events.
 
Adverse Employment Action
An adverse employment action is very broad and is  not simply a termination or failure to promote.
An adverse employment action includes “a course or pattern of conduct that,
taken as a whole, materially and adversely affected the terms , conditions or privileges
of employment. An adverse employment action includes conduct that is reasonably
likely to impair a reasonable employee’s job performances or prospects for
advancement or promotion.” (CACI 2509.) Using an objective standard, the course
of conduct must “reasonably likely to impair” an employee’s performance. (CACI
2509.) In other words, an adverse employment action cannot be trivial. 
 
If the alleged conduct involving speaking Chinese and references
to the origin of COVID were proven, this conduct is hardly trivial. Rather,
this behavior could impair a reasonable employee’s performance. In other words,
the conduct could constitute an adverse employment action.
 
As such, Defendant has failed in their prima facie burden to
show nonexistence of any genuine issue of material
fact.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 845.)
 
 
Issues 1, 2 & 5
– Constructive Wrongful Termination (Third Cause of Action: Defendant
Balenciaga Only)
 
Defendant Balenciaga contends that these claims fail because
the undisputed facts show that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position
would not have been compelled to resign on August 5, 2020, and that Plaintiff
cannot prove “intolerable or aggravated” working conditions based upon racial
animus. Defendant Balenciaga further contends that Plaintiff admitted she would
have remained an employee if Defendant Balenciaga transferred the $400
commission to her from Defendant Ortega. Plaintiff argues that the adverse
employment actions are based upon racial animus are:  (1) Plaintiff’s constructive discharge, (2) her
restriction from speaking Mandarin, and (3) the cumulative effect of many
subtle yet damaging injuries. The 
 
To prove a claim for constructive discharge, a plaintiff must
show that the employer intentionally created or knowingly permitted working conditions
so intolerable at the time of resignation that a reasonable employer would
realize that a reasonable person in the employee’s shoes would be compelled to
resign. (Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn.
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 559–60.) Intolerable conditions are defined as
either unusually aggravated or amounting to a continuous pattern. (Ibid.) 
 
For the same reasons as articulated above, Defendant has
failed in their prima facie burden to show nonexistence
of any genuine issue of material fact.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 845.)
 
Issue 4 – National
Origin Harassment (Second Cause of Action: Both Defendants)
 
Both Defendants contend that Plaintiff cannot establish a
prima facie case of harassment because a reasonable review of the totality of
the circumstances shows no actionable harassment. Specifically, Defendant
Balenciaga contends that the alleged conduct is nothing more than personnel
management decisions, that Defendant Ortega’s statement that he influenced his
prior employer to terminate two Chinese employees is not evidence of anything
at all in connection with Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff’s alleged comments by
Ms. Montgaillard fail to meet the objective harassment standard and did not
interfere with Plaintiff’s work performance. Plaintiff argues that her claim
for hostile work environment is not appropriate for disposition on summary
judgment pursuant to Gov. Code § 12923(e). Plaintiff also argues there are
triable facts as to whether Defendant Ortega was Plaintiff’s supervisor. 
 
To establish a prima facie claim of harassment, a plaintiff must
show: (1) plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to
harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on a protected
characteristic; (4) the harassment complained of was sufficiently pervasive to
alter the conditions of employment and create an abusive working environment;
and (5) respondeat superior. (Fisher v.
San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 608.) Harassment is
something that communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee. (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th
686, 706.) Plaintiff must show that the conduct was severe or pervasive enough
to alter the conditions of employment, creating an abusive work environment
based on the protected characteristic. (Fisher,
supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at 851.) 
 
Government Code section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) prohibits
harassment based on a protected characteristic, such as race, religious creed,
and national origin. “California courts have applied the federal threshold
standard to claims of harassment and held that FEHA is violated when the
harassment was ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the
victim’s employment.’” (Etter v. Veriflo
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 464-65; Kelly-Zurian v. Wohl Shoe Co., Inc. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397,
409.) Harassment
claims, “focus[ ] on situations in which the social environment of the workplace becomes intolerable
because the harassment ... communicates an offensive message to the harassed
employee.” (Pollock
v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 918, 932.) Generally, a hostile environment “is found on the
theory that a series of separate acts collectively constitute one ‘unlawful
employment practice.’ ” (National
Railroad Passenger Corp. v. Morgan (2002) 536 U.S. 101, 117.) A single
incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a hostile work environment
if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work performance or created
an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.” (Gov. Code, §
12923, subd. (b)) Additionally, individual employees may be liable for their
own acts of harassment. (See Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(3); Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640,
644-45.) The court shall use the totality of the circumstances to determine
whether there exists a hostile work environment and reject the “stray remarks”
doctrine. (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).) 
 
For the reasons indicated above, Defendant Balenciaga has
failed in its initial burden. 
 
As to Defendant Ortega, he is alleged to have only participated
in the following three events:
 
(1)   The
commission dispute. 
(2)   The
conversation where Plaintiff alleges Defendant Ortega claimed that he caused two
employees at his previous employer to
be fired. 
(3)   Defendant
Ortega alleging that Plaintiff called him a “crackhead.” Plaintiff, however,
has presented no evidence even
suggesting that the commission difference or the first three numbers above had anything
to do with national origin or race elements.
Plaintiff offered no direct or circumstantial evidence that the
commission disagreement or the crackhead comment had any racial or national origin
basis. 
 
More troubling was the allegation in the complaint that Defendant
Ortega had “openly displayed his animus toward [Plaintiff], bragging on
multiple occasions about how in his previous supervisory position at Dior, he
managed to get all the sales associates of Chinese descent fired.” (Complaint ¶
15.) The Court reviewed the actual testimony of Plaintiff, which
is the only evidence as to this incident. This is what Plaintiff actually  testified to: 
 
When Defendant Ortega first started, Plaintiff was having a conversation
with Ortega when he asked if Plaintiff knew Ivy and another gentleman when she
worked at Dior . Plaintiff responded, “Yes.
They are Chinese.” Defendant Ortega then continued, “You know I got both of
them fired, right?’ (Krill Dec. Ex. A: p.194 10-13.)
 
Counsel clarified to make sure that was the extent of the
conversation. 
 
            Q.· · “I'm
sorry.· His colleagues. ·Can you tell me exactly what he said to you in that
conversation?”
 
A.· ·“Yes.· He told me that ‘Do you
know Ivy and the other gentleman that used to work in Dior’" I said, ‘Yes.·
They are Chinese.’· And he then said, ‘You know I got both of them fired;
right?’· I was like, ‘No way.’· I
can't remember exactly the words, but this was a conversation that happened.· I
said, ‘No way.’ He said, ‘Yeah.· I was able to do that.’ That was the
conversation, and it happened when he first started in the smaller store.” (Krill
Dec. Ex. A:  p. 194:7-18.)
 
Then, Plaintiff admitted that she had no idea whether
Defendant Ortega caused those two Dior employee to be fired, adding that she
had “no idea why left.” (Krill Dec. Ex. A:  p.202:1-3.)
 
Thus, there is no evidence that Defendant Ortega brought up
race or national origin. Rather, it was Plaintiff who identified the race of these
two Dior employees. There is absolutely no evidence that this occurred on more
than one occasion either. Nor is there any direct or circumstantial  evidence that Defendant Ortega targeted
Plaintiff because of her “Chinese origin.” (Complaint at ¶ 15.) Rather, in
context, as recounted by Plaintiff early in their relationship, Plaintiff and
Defendant Ortega were talking gossip about people they mutually knew at a previous
common employer. Here, there is a clear disconnect between the allegations
framed by the complaint and the evidence developed through Plaintiff’s
testimony. In sum, there is no competent evidence of discriminatory animus.
 
As such, Defendant has met their prima facie
burden that Plaintiff will be unable to provide an element of the
offense—racial animus— and Plaintiff has failed to raise a material issue of
fact to meet her burden. 
 
As such, the Motion is granted as to Plaintiff
Ortega and Denied as to Defendant Balenciaga. 
 
Issue 7 – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (Fourth Cause of Action: Both Defendants)
 
Both Defendants contend Plaintiff’s claim for IIED fails
because Plaintiff has not alleged and cannot prove actionable “extreme and
outrageous” conduct. Specifically, that personnel management decisions do not
constitute extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiff argues that if the conduct
is not extreme and outrageous then there are triable issues of fact as to
whether the conduct was extreme or outrageous. Plaintiff also compares her
national origin discrimination claim to sexual harassment, which may establish
the outrageous conduct element.
 
The elements of intentional infliction of emotional distress
are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct (2) directed to the plaintiff by
defendant, (3) with the intention of (4) causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, (5) severe or extreme emotional distress. (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54
Cal. 3d 868, 903.) For conduct to be outrageous it must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. (See Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc.
(2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 120, 130.) Generally, conduct will be found to be
actionable where the recitation of the facts to an average member of the
community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to
exclaim, “Outrageous!” (Ibid.) 
 
For the reasons articulated above, Defendant Balenciaga has
failed to meet its burden and Plaintiff has failed to meet her burden as to
Defendant Ortega. 
 
Issue 8 – Punitive
Damages (Both Defendants)
 
Both Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages fails because there is no evidence of oppression, fraud, or malice. Plaintiff
does not separately argue this point, but groups it with her argument for FEHA
violations and IIED. 
 
In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) If a jury
accepts a plaintiff’s FEHA claims, such evidence could provide grounds as to
whether a defendant acted with malice, oppression or fraud. (Cloud v. Casey, (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
895, 912.) However, with respect to a corporate employer,
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or an
act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be shown on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b); Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co.,
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to present any
evidence, let alone, substantial evidence to that an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation had
such advanced knowledge and acted with conscious disregard, fraud, or malice.

 
Thus, Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Punitive Damages is GRANTED. 
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
Defendant Ortega’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant Balenciaga’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRATNED
as to Punitive Damages but DENIED in all other respects. 
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              April 17, 2024             __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


