 Case Number:  21STCV44592    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Gilbert Azafrani’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.Defendant Gilbert Azafrani shall file an answer within 15 days of entry of this order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (b).)Defendant Gilbert Azafrani to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendant Gilbert Azafrani (“Defendant”) requests judicial notice of the Court’s standing order re: personal injury procedure and that the proof of service filed on January 23, 2022 does not mention service of the standing order. Defendant’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (d) and (h). While Plaintiff Isabell Jansen (“Plaintiff”) states that she did not receive a copy of this request, the Court notes that both documents are readily available to Plaintiff such that there is no harm to Plaintiff in the Court taking judicial notice of the documents.AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1), provides that a defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him. Defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint upon him on the ground that Plaintiff Isabell Jansen (“Plaintiff”) failed to serve Defendant in a code-complaint manner.The Court is perplexed by Defendant's Motion to Quash filed on February 16, 2024 in that  Defendant Gilbert Azabrani's previously moved this court to Set Aside Invalid and Void Default and Quash Service of Summons and Dismiss Action.  On January 18, 2023 this Court granted Defendant's Motion to Set Aside Invalid and Void Default, but denied Defendant's Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Dismiss the Action.  Defendant was provided time to answer or otherwise respond, but instead filed the instant Motion to Quash.  Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides, (a) When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.Defendant's Motion to Quash filed on February 16, 2024 is DENIED as previously heard and decided.  If the Court were to treat the Motion to Quash as a Motion for Reconsideration, the Motion is DENIED as untimely.    However, in an abundance of caution the Court provides its ruling on the matter as set forth below:The proof of service of summons filed on March 8, 2022, indicates that Defendant was served by personal service at 1101 Victoria Avenue in Venice on January 23, 2022, at 2:40 p.m. The proof of service is signed by a registered California process server, which creates a rebuttable presumption of proper service pursuant to Evidence Code section 647.Defendant’s opposition makes several arguments relating to substituted service, which is inapposite when the proof of service states that Defendant was personally served, so the Court need only determine whether personal service was effected. Defendant also refers to process servers lacking credibility and references a vexatious litigant, which is not relevant to this case or the process server who effected service here.Defendant provides his sworn statement that he was in bed all afternoon at his residence at 1101A Victoria Avenue, which is a different address than what is listed in the proof of service, and the individual who resides with him found the summons and complaint on her doorstep on January 23, 2022. (Mot., Azafrani Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) It follows that the Court is required to make a credibility determination as to whether the process server’s account or Defendant’s account is correct. Notably, the process server’s account is supported by Plaintiff’s counsel’s sworn statement that he was in contact with both Plaintiff and the process server on the date of service, and on that date, Plaintiff advised him that the process server was at the subject residence, and counsel was advised by the process server that personal service had been effectuated. (Opp’n, Rochlin Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant has provided a declaration from a third party residing at the same residence as Defendant, stating the same facts as Defendant’s declaration. (Mot., Inozemtseva Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.) Given that Plaintiff enjoys a presumption of proper service with a declaration from a registered California process server, the Court finds that Defendant has not sufficiently rebutted that presumption. Further, while service of the Court’s standing order is required, Defendant cites no authority to compel a conclusion that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction due to a failure to serve this document with the summons and complaint. Accordingly, Defendant Gilbert Azafrani’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED. Given that Defendant filed another  Motion to Quash rather than an appropriate responsive pleading pursuant to the Court's January 18, 2024 order Defendant Gilbert Azafrani shall file an answer  within 15 days of entry of this order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (b).)The Court again notes, as it has in past orders, that defense counsel’s erratic use of font and space formatting in the motion make Defendant’s motion unnecessarily difficult to read, and the Court asks counsel to limit font and spacing changes to only necessary changes.