  Case Number:  21SMCV01129    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Defendant Vervent, Inc. shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED as MOOT.Defendant Vervent, Inc. to give notice.REASONINGDefendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationDefendant Vervent, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the Court for summary judgment or adjudication as to all four causes of action for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, accounting, and declaratory judgment alleged against it by Plaintiffs ThunderRoad Motorcycle Trust 2016-1; Beach Point Select Master Fund, LP; Beach Point Securitized Credit Fund, LP; BPC Opportunities Fund II, LP; ThunderRoad Financial, LLC; and BP THR II Trust. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff ThunderRoad Motorcycle Trust 2016-1 voluntarily dismissed its claims in this action. Thus, the Court considers this motion only as to Plaintiffs Beach Point Select Master Fund, LP; Beach Point Securitized Credit Fund, LP; BPC Opportunities Fund II, LP; ThunderRoad Financial, LLC; and BP THR II Trust (“Plaintiffs”).Defendant’s Notice of MotionIn its initial motion, Defendant moved only for summary judgment in its notice of motion and did not move for summary adjudication in the alternative. It is well established that when a notice of motion seeks only summary judgment, the presence of any triable issue required denial of the motion, i.e., the motion must completely dispose of all claims against the moving party. (See Homestead Savings v. Superior Court (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 494, 497-499.) However, on December 22, 2023, Defendant filed a Notice of Errata, stating therein that seeks summary adjudication in the alternative. Where a trial court is asked to allow an amendment to the notice, it is error not to allow the amendment where the other party had a full and fair opportunity to address the summary adjudication issues. (Silva v. See’s Candy Shops, Inc. (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 235, 256, disapproved on other grounds by Donohue v. AMN Services, LLC (2021) 11 Cal.5th 58, 77.) The Court finds that Plaintiffs have had sufficient opportunity to address the motion as one for summary adjudication, particularly given that the motion was refiled, and the hearing was continued. Thus, the Court considers Defendant’s motion to be on for summary adjudication in the alternative, and the Court will consider each of Defendant’s arguments in that context.Defendant’s Moving Separate StatementPlaintiffs take issue with Defendant’s separate statement on the ground it does not comply with rule 3.1350 of the California Rules of Court because it does not identify, as to each issue, only those material facts pertinent to the disposition of such issue, instead listing fact sections and incorporating those facts by reference, thus failing to put Plaintiffs or the Court on notice of the facts relevant to each issue.Rule 3.1350(d)(1)(A) of the California Rules of Court provides that “[t]he Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify . . . [e]ach cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.” “The separate statement is not merely a technical requirement, it is an indispensable part of the summary judgment or adjudication process.” (Whitehead v. Habig (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 896, 902.) While the moving separate statement is not a model of clarity, i.e., the use of incorporation by reference of all facts does not help the Court or Plaintiffs much, the formatting is common and technically compliant, and Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities makes clear which facts in the separate statement support each of the identified issues. Thus, Plaintiffs’ objection to Defendant’s separate statement is OVERRULED.Defendant’s Reply Separate StatementThe Court has not considered Defendant’s “Re-Filed Reply to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts and Additional Disputed Facts,” as this document is a reply separate statement not authorized by statute, and Defendant failed to seek leave of court to file such a document. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 [“There is no provision in the statute for” including a reply separate statement].)Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Factual BackgroundPlaintiff ThunderRoad Financial, LLC (“ThunderRoad”) is an indirect third-party finance company that finances consumer powersports vehicles, mostly motorcycle loans. (Def.’s UMF No. 1.) Defendant services loans originated by third parties, and it sends invoices to borrowers, collects loan payments from them, maintains loan records, and resolves delinquencies. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 5, 6.) Defendant was formed in July 2019 following the merger of two other loan servicers, First Associates Loan Servicing, LLC (“First Associates”) and Portfolio Financial Servicing Company (“PFSC”), all of whom serviced two different portfolios of loans originated by ThunderRoad related to financing borrowers’ purchases of motorcycles. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 1, 5, 13-28.)The formation and servicing of the two loan portfolios are governed by two sets of agreements. The first loan portfolio was created through a securitization so ThunderRoad could receive additional funding, and ThunderRoad, through a depositor, transferred its interest in a pool of loans through an Indenture, entered between ThunderRoad Motorcycle Trust 2016-1 (“TR Trust”) and U.S. Bank National Association (“U.S. Bank”). (Def.’s UMF Nos. 7-10, 12-15.) By purchasing the issued notes, investors acquired rights to be paid according to the terms of the Indenture, while ThunderRoad increased its cash flow from the purchases, and Beach Point Select Master Fund LP, Beach Point Securitized Credit Fund LP, and BPC Opportunities Fund II LP (collectively “Beach Point”) claims to have purchased an interest in the securitized portfolio by purchasing notes. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 11-12.) TR Trust, ThunderRoad, U.S. Bank, and First Associates also entered into a Sale and Servicing Agreement (“SSA”) through which First Associates became the servicer for the first loan portfolio. (Def.’s Ex. B.) For the second portfolio, ThunderRoad sold its interest in a pool of motorcycle loans to BP THR II Trust (“BP Trust”), and, on October 2, 2017, ThunderRoad and BP Trust entered into a Master Servicing Agreement (“MSA”), under which ThunderRoad became the servicer for the loan portfolio, while ThunderRoad and PFSC also entered into a Third Party Sub-Servicer Agreement (“TRPSA”), under which PFSC became the sub-servicer for the loan portfolio. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 4, 12, 22-26; Def.’s Ex. G.) Defendant began servicing this portfolio in 2019 when First Associates and PFSC merged, and in July 2020, ThunderRoad switched to another servicer and terminated Defendant as the sub-servicer. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 27-29.)Statute of LimitationsDefendant first argues that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations. Defendant argues that Plaintiff have known and complained of inadequate servicing, miscalculated servicing fees, and incomplete or erroneous servicing reports by First Associates and later Defendant with respect to the first loan portfolio from the outset of the Indenture and SSA in April 2016, but it was not until June 28, 2021, that Plaintiffs brought this action. Claims for breach of contract, declaratory judgment, and accounting are subject to a four-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 337, subdivision (a), while a claim for unjust enrichment is subject to a two-year statute of limitations based on a quasi-contract theory of liability under Code of Civil Procedure section 339, subdivision (1).Defendant provides evidence that ThunderRoad’s Chief Financial Officer emailed First Associates in June 2016 to states that ThunderRoad had been communicating concerns about servicing performance (Def.’s UMF Nos. 36-38), and in a September 2016 email, ThunderRoad’s president told employees that investor concerns concerning recovery rates, collection efforts, servicing fees, and charge offs stemmed from issues with First Associates (Def.’s UMF Nos. 39-41). In January 2017, ThunderRoad’s counsel sent First Associates a demand letter expressly identifying a breach of contract claim and reiterating these same concerns (Def.’s UMF Nos. 43-44), and in a May 2020 email to Defendant, a Beach Point executive acknowledged issues that had been raised with First Associates starting in 2016 (Def.’s UMF No. 42). Defendant argues that the conduct described in these communications is the same stated in Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim, but Plaintiffs waited more than five years to file their complaint. (See Compl. ¶¶ 43-51, 87-91.)In opposition, Plaintiffs argue their claims are not time barred because New York provides for a six-year statute of limitations period, and the SSA includes a choice of law provision. (Def.’s Ex. B.) Notably, New York law requires that Plaintiffs satisfy both the six-year statute of limitations for New York and the statute of limitations of the jurisdiction where the claim arose (N.Y. CPLR § 202; Hughes Electronics Corp. v. Citibank Delaware (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 251, 259-261), and Plaintiffs specifically allege in their complaint that Defendant committed breaches of contract and tortious acts within Santa Monica (Compl. ¶¶ 8-14). Thus, the Court is not convinced that Plaintiffs’ claims are timely on these grounds.Plaintiffs also argue that their claims are timely under the continuous accrual doctrine. It is axiomatic that the continuous accrual doctrine does not apply here where there was no recurring obligation or periodic payments (State of California ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 418), and there is no basis to conclude that there was a recurring obligation or periodic payments made here. Insofar as Plaintiffs argue that Defendant tolled the statute of limitations by impairing access to, or fraudulently concealing, information relating to the alleged breaches, this argument is not well taken when the evidence shows that Plaintiffs communicated about the purported breaches as early as 2016. Finally, the Court cannot conclude that the COVID-19 emergency rules tolled the statute of limitations in such a manner that Plaintiffs’ claims may be saved, as the claims were tolled for only six months from April 6, 2020 to October 1, 2020, and Plaintiffs claims were filed more than a year late.For these reasons, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ claims, all of which arise out of purported breaches of contracts, are barred by the applicable statutes of limitations. Accordingly, Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant Vervent, Inc. shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendant objects to certain statements within the declaration of Donal Hummer. The Court declines to rule on these objections, as they are not material to the Court’s ruling herein.Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsGiven the Court’s ruling granting Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, Defendant Vervent, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED as MOOT.