  Case Number:  20STCV34158    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BENJAMIN
  CHUI, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
PARKER,
  MILLIKEN, CLARK, O’HARA & SAMUELIAN.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV34158
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 27, 2023



 
Defendant
Parker, Milliken, Clark, O’Hara & Samuelian’s motion for an order determining
that Plaintiffs Benjamin Chui and Margaret Chui-Lee have waived the
attorney-client privilege over five documents produced by Plaintiffs to
Defendant in discovery on or about May 5, 2021, is denied. 
Defendant is to provide Plaintiffs with all privileged documents
inadvertently produced.
 
Plaintiffs Benjamin Chui’s and Margaret
Chui-Lee’s as co-trustees of the King Wah Chui and Chi May Chui Declaration of
Trust Dated March 11, 1988, as Amended by Complete Amendment of the Declaration
of Trust Dated May 21, 1999, as Amended, motion to quash the deposition
subpoena for personal appearance served on Non-party Kode Li is denied.  Plaintiffs’ motion in the alternative for a protective
order modifying and restricting the subpoena is granted.  Defendant’s Subpoena must be set for a
mutually convenient date and Plaintiffs maintain the right to object to
privileged information on a question-by-question basis.
 
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions
against Defendant is denied.
 
Defendant’s request for sanctions
against Plaintiffs is denied.
 
Defendant
Parker, Milliken, Clark, O’Hara & Samuelian (“Parker Milliken”)
(“Defendant”) moves for an order determining that Plaintiffs Benjamin Chui (“Benjamin”)
and Margaret Chui-Lee (“Margaret”), as co-trustees of the King Wah Chui and Chi
May Chui Declaration of Trust Dated March 11, 1988 as Amended by Complete
Amendment of the Declaration of Trust Dated May 21, 1999, as Amended
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”), have waived the attorney-client privilege over
five documents produced by Plaintiffs to Defendant in discovery on or about May
5, 2021.  (Notice of Privilege, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §2031.285(d)(1).)  Defendant moves on the ground
that Plaintiffs waived the attorney-client privilege by voluntarily and
knowingly disclosing these five documents in discovery.  (Notice
of Privilege, pg. 2; Evid. Code §912(a); McDermott Will & Emery
LLP v. Superior Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1083, 1106.)  Defendant also moves on the ground Plaintiffs
waived the attorney-client privilege by placing the privileged communications
directly at issue.  (Notice of Privilege, pg. 2; Southern California
Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Commission (1990) 50 Cal.3d 31, 40.)
Plaintiffs
move to quash the Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance (“Subpoena”)
served on Nonparty Kode Li (“Li”) by Defendant. 
(Notice of Quash, pg. 2; C.C.P. §1987.1.)  Plaintiffs move on the ground the Subpoena improperly
circumvents the Probate Court’s August 15, 2022, ruling quashing the disclosure
of any information Li ever had in his possession relating to Co-Trustees; there
is no credible claim or argument that Li has any knowledge relevant to the
present action making any deposition a waste of time and resources; and Li’s testimony
would infringe upon numerous privileges given that any information he could have
is based on misappropriated documents protected by the attorney-client
privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, the litigation privilege, the
marital privilege, and the mediation and settlement privileges.  (Notice of Quash, pg. 2.)  Plaintiffs move in the alternative for the Court to issue a
protective order to limit the deposition to topics and questions that do not
implicate or call for privileged information (whether the information is
protected by the attorney-client privilege, attorney work product, litigation
privilege, marital privilege, or mediation and settlement privileges).  (Notice
of Quash, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1987.1, 2025.420(b).) 
Plaintiffs move for sanctions in the amount of $9,811.25, for reasonable
fees and costs in bringing this motion. 
(Notice of Quash, pg. 2.)
 
Procedural Background
On September
8, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint.  On July 25, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the
operative SAC alleging two causes of action against Defendant: (1) legal
malpractice, and (2) breach of fiduciary duty, arising from Defendant providing
estate planning and legal services with respect to the formation of the King
Wah Chui and Chi May Chui Declaration of Trust Dated March 11, 1988, as Amended
by Complete Amendment of Declaration of Trust Dated May 21, 1999, as Further
Amended (“Trust”), including handling all tax and estate planning matters in
connection with the estates of Chi May and King as provided in the Trust.  (SAC ¶11.) 
Plaintiff Benjamin is a grandchild of Chi May and King, and Margaret is
a daughter of Chi May and King; Plaintiffs are the successor trustees of the
Trust and bring the instant claims against Defendant pursuant to their
fiduciary obligations to the Trust and all beneficiaries of the Trust.  (SAC ¶12.)  
On July
28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for determination of privilege.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the
motion for determination of privilege on September 7, 2023.  Defendant filed its reply to the motion for determination
of privilege on September 13, 2023.
On
August 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to quash.  Defendant filed its opposition to the motion to
quash on September 7, 2023.  Plaintiffs
filed their reply to the motion to quash on September 13, 2023.
 
A.  
Defendant’s Motion for Determination of
Privilege
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§2031.285 provides:
(a) If electronically stored information
produced in discovery is subject to a claim of privilege or of protection as
attorney work product, the party making the claim may notify any party that
received the information of the claim and the basis for the claim.
 
(b) After being notified of a
claim of privilege or of protection under subdivision (a), a party that
received the information shall immediately sequester the information and either
return the specified information and any copies that may exist or present the
information to the court conditionally under seal for a determination of the
claim.
 
(c)(1) Prior to the resolution of
the motion brought under subdivision (d), a party shall be precluded from using
or disclosing the specified information until the claim of privilege is
resolved.
 
(2) A party who received and
disclosed the information before being notified of a claim of privilege or of
protection under subdivision (a) shall, after that notification, immediately
take reasonable steps to retrieve the information.
 
(d)(1) If the receiving party
contests the legitimacy of a claim of privilege or protection, he or she may
seek a determination of the claim from the court by making a motion within 30
days of receiving the claim and presenting the information to the court
conditionally under seal.
 
(2) Until the legitimacy of the
claim of privilege or protection is resolved, the receiving party shall
preserve the information and keep it confidential and shall be precluded from
using the information in any manner.
 
(C.C.P.
§2031.285.)
Attorney
client communications are presumptively privileged and not subject to disclosure.
 (Evid. Code §§950, et seq.)  The client holds the privilege (Evid. Code
§953) and may refuse to authorize or authorize disclosure of any attorney-client
communications (Evid. Code § 954).  This
privilege is governed exclusively by statute, and courts may not invoke
contrary policies, rules, or rulings.  (HLC Properties, Ltd. v. Superior Court
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 54, 59, citing Evid. Code § 911; Moeller v.
Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1124, 1129.)
The
privilege does not terminate upon the end of the representation, and “may be
invoked . . . at any time during or after the termination of the relationship
between client or prospective client and lawyer.”  (Restat.3d of the Law Governing Lawyers §77.)
The
attorney-client privilege is waived “with respect to a communication protected
by the privilege if any holder of the privilege, without coercion, has
disclosed a significant part of the communication or has consented to
disclosure made by anyone.”  (Evid. Code
§912(a).)  A knowing and voluntary
disclosure constitutes a waiver under Evidence Code §912.  (Ardon v. City of Los Angeles (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1176, 1189.)  “[T]he burden must
rest on the complaining lawyer [who is asserting privilege] to persuasively demonstrate inadvertence.”  (State Compensation Insurance Fund v. WPS,
Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 644, 657.)

Even
an otherwise inadvertent disclosure can constitute a waiver if “the totality of
the circumstances” manifests an intent to waive.  (McDermott Will & Emery LLP v. Superior
Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1083, 1106.)  Factors a court must examine include “both the
subjective intent of the privilege holder and any manifestation of the holder’s
intent to disclose the information,” as well as “the precautions the holder
took to maintain the privilege and the promptness with which the holder sought
return of the inadvertently disclosed document.”  (Id. at pgs. 1101-1102.)  If, during discovery, a party fails to take
“reasonable steps” to prevent disclosure, waiver will occur even when there is
an inadvertent disclosure.  (Regents
of University of California v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 672,
683.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiffs
argue that at no time did Benjamin, or any of the lawyers involved in preparing
the initial document production to Defendant, intend to waive any privilege—nor
were any lawyers authorized to do so.  (Decl.
of Chui ¶¶2-8; Decl. of Patel ¶¶11-13; Decl. of Weingarten ¶¶20-26.)  Plaintiffs argue Defendant served Request for
Production of Documents (“RFP”) (Set One), and their former counsel, Jayesh
Patel (“Patel”) of Greenspoon Marder, obtained a hard drive from Benjamin’s
probate lawyers at Venable LLP (“Venable”) as part of the discovery process.  (Decl. of Patel ¶¶2, 9.)  Patel apparently believed that the hard drive
was meant to include only documents suitable for production (Decl. of Patel ¶¶8-11),
while Venable believed that Patel was seeking all the documents in the
underlying litigation, including privileged matter, for his own use including
document production (Decl. of Weingarten ¶¶7-16, 19).  Plaintiffs argue as a result, the hard drive included
both privileged and nonprivileged material, but Patel did not have that understanding.
 (Decl. of Weingarten ¶¶11-16; Decl. of Patel
¶¶9, 11.)
Plaintiffs
argue Patel coordinated production of the material with Defendant’s counsel, Scott
Garner (“Garner”) of Umberg Zipser LLP. 
(Decl. of Patel ¶4.)  Plaintiffs
argue prior to production of the hard drive material, the attorneys spoke over
the phone concerning logistics in transmitting such voluminous material between
their respective vendors and staffs.  (Decl.
of Patel ¶¶4-7.)  Plaintiffs
argue at the time of Patel’s phone call with Garner on May 5, 2021, no
documents had been produced to Defendant’s counsel.  (Decl. of Patel ¶6.)  Plaintiffs argue Patel never had any
communications with Garner or anyone else at Garner’s firm, about any supposed
privileged communications that were included in Plaintiffs’ production to
Defendant from the Venable hard drive.  (Decl.
of Patel ¶7.)
Defendant
argues Plaintiffs knowingly and voluntarily waived the attorney-client
privilege when Patel produced documents responsive to Defendant’s
1/8/21 RFP (Set One) that were maintained by Venable.  Defendant argues on May 5, 2021, Garner
learned that Patel’s firm was in possession of a hard drive with tens of
thousands of documents related to Venable’s representation of Plaintiffs in the
underlying lawsuits.  (Decl.
of Garner ¶5.)  Defendant argues when
Garner learned that Patel was producing Venable’s entire file, including
communications between Venable and Benjamin, Garner emailed Patel to raise this
issue and question whether the production went beyond what he intended.  (Decl. of Garner ¶5.)  Patel responded via email and agreed to call Garner,
stating in his email that he did not think the production was an issue, but he
would confirm.  (Decl. of Garner ¶5,
Exh. 2.)
Defendant
argues Garner spoke on the phone with Patel on or about May 5, 2021, in which Patel
stated that he intended to produce all the documents from Venable, including
communications between Benjamin Chui and his attorneys.  (Decl. of Garner ¶6.)  Defendant argues Patel did not
produce a privilege log with this production of documents.  (Decl. of Garner ¶6.)  
Plaintiffs
persuasively demonstrate inadvertence in disclosing the privileged
communications at issue in this motion.  (State Compensation Insurance Fund, 70
Cal.App.4th at pg. 657.)  Plaintiffs
demonstrate that Garner declares the telephone conversation included a
prospective discussion of the intention to turn over the contents of the hard
drive, and that the hard drive “include[ed] communications between Venable and
Benjamin Chui.”  (Decl. of Garner ¶5.)  Further, Garner
declares he emailed Patel about the issue of producing Venable’s entire file,
but the email does not include any mention of specific communications or any
concerns about privilege.  (Decl.
Garner ¶5, Exh. 2 [“I want to make sure we are getting only
documents you intend to produce, and that once they are transferred to us
Venable will not have any further access to them.”].)  Garner then declares that he spoke with Patel
and allegedly “Mr. Patel stated that he intended to produce all the documents
from Venable, including communications between Benjamin Chui and his
attorneys.”  (Decl. of Garner ¶6.)  However, Patel declares he did not discuss
the potential for disclosure of privileged documents with Garner during that
telephone call.  (Decl. Patel ¶¶5, 12-13.)  
Further,
by Garner’s own declaration, and as affirmatively stated by Mr. Patel (Decl. of
Patel ¶6), the May 5, 2021, phone call occurred prior to the transmission of
the hard drive material.  (E.g., Decl. Garner ¶5, Exh. 2 [“Lorraine from your
office has been talking to our contact at Disco about transferring your
responsive documents to us. . . . I want to make sure we are getting only
documents you intend to produce, and that once they are transferred to us
Venable will not have any further access to them”].)  Plaintiffs demonstrate that they did not
knowingly and voluntarily authorize the disclose the privileged communications
in the May 5, 2021, phone call.
The
Court is also not convinced by Defendant’s argument that its revealing of
limited communications about issues not related to the probate litigation at
earlier depositions manifests Plaintiffs’ intent to waive their privilege.  The email marked at Benjamin’s deposition regarding
his representation by Loeb & Loeb to schedule a mediation in ILIT matter,
and the three Venable emails marked at Grace Chung’s deposition establishing
facts needed for administering the estate and its tax return were not
sufficient to put Plaintiffs on inquiry notice of an inadvertent disclosure of
privileged communications between Benjamin and Venable concerning the probate
litigation itself.  (Decl. of Chui ¶9;
Decl. of Furman ¶24.) 
Rules
of Professional Conduct, Rule 4.4 provides:
Where it is reasonably apparent
to a lawyer who receives a writing relating to a lawyer’s representation of a
client that the writing was inadvertently sent or produced, and the lawyer
knows or reasonably should know that the writing is privileged or subject to
the work product doctrine, the lawyer shall: (a) refrain from examining the
writing any more than is necessary to determine that it is privileged or
subject to the work product doctrine, and (b) promptly notify the sender.
 
(RPC,
Rule 4.4.)
Defendant’s
counsel did not refrain from examining the privileged material at issue and did
not inform Plaintiffs’ counsel that it was in receipt of privileged materials.  Garner’s declaration at ¶¶4-6 regarding his
May 5, 2021, email to Patel and subsequent phone call occurred before received
or reviewed any of the document production.  Garner’s phone call with Patel cannot fulfill
the requirements of Rule 4.4 because it occurred prior to the transmission of
the documents in question.  (See Decl. of Patel ¶6.)  Rule 4.4 requires a lawyer who “receives” the
document to promptly notify the sender.  The
comments to Rule 4.4 further state, “[i]f a lawyer determines this rule applies
to a transmitted writing, the lawyer should return the writing to sender.”  (RPC, Rule 4.4, Comment 1, citing Rico v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 807; see also State Fund, Insurance Fund v. WPS, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 644, 657 [holding that a lawyer who receives privileged information through inadvertence should
refrain from examining the materials any more
than is essential to ascertain the materials are privileged, should immediately
notify the sender, and “disqualification might be
justified if an attorney inadvertently receives confidential materials and fails to conduct himself or herself
in the manner specified above”].)
Defendant
is to provide a full and complete record of the privileged documents it
received to permit Plaintiffs to fully assert the privilege and claw back rights
and mitigate the damage that disclosure may have caused.
 
          Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion for an order determining that Plaintiffs have waived the attorney-client
privilege over five documents produced by Plaintiffs to Defendant in discovery
on or about May 5, 2021, is denied.  Defendant
is to provide Plaintiffs with all privileged documents inadvertently produced.
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
B.   
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash Subpoena
Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs’
8/16/23 request for judicial notice of (1) Co-Trustees’ Motion to Enforce the
Settlement filed on August 15, 2018, in In the Matter of The Estate of King
Wah Chui (LASC Case No. BP154245 and related cases) (“Probate Action”)
(P-RJN, Exh. 1); (2) Excerpts of Christine Chui’s Appellant Opening Brief filed
on August 2, 2021, in the Court of Appeal, Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 2);
(3) Court of Appeal’s March 2, 2022, Opinion in Case No. B306918 (P-RJN,
Exh. 5); (4) Benjamin’s Motion to Quash Christine’s Deposition
Subpoena to BCPD filed on March 7, 2022, in the Probate Action (P-RJN,
Exh. 6); (5) Benjamin’s Motion to Quash Christine’s Deposition
Subpoena to Hess Verdon filed on March 7, 2022, in the Probate Action (P-RJN,
Exh. 7); (6) Christine’s Opposition to Benjamin’s Motion to Quash
Christine’s Deposition Subpoena to BCPD filed on June 22, 2022, in the Probate
Action (P-RJN, Exh. 8); (7) Christine’s Motion to Stay
Issuance of Remittitur (excluding exhibits) filed on June 27, 2022, in the
Court of Appeal Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 9); (8)
Court of Appeal’s July 14, 2022, Opinion regarding Christine’s Motion to Stay
Issuance of Remittitur in Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 10);
(9) Court of Appeal’s July 14, 2022, Remittitur in Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 11); (10) Probate Court’s August 15, 2022,
Order Granting Benjamin’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Hess Verdon in the
Probate Action (P-RJN, Exh. 12); (11) Probate
Court’s August 15, 2022, Order Granting Benjamin’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to
BCPD in the Probate Action (P-RJN, Exh. 13); (12) Christine’s
Request for Judicial Notice filed on February 8, 2023, in the Court of Appeal
Case No. B312525 (excluding exhibits) (P-RJN, Exh. 16); (13)
Excerpts of Christine’s Motion to Recall Remittitur filed on February 21, 2023,
in the Court of Appeal Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 17);
(14) Court of Appeal’s March 29, 2023, Order denying Christine’s Motion to
Recall Remittitur in Case No. B306918 (P-RJN, Exh. 18);
(15) Christine’s Request for Judicial Notice (excluding exhibits) filed on May
12, 2023, in the Court of Appeal Lead Consolidated Case No. B288425 (P-RJN,
Exh. 19); (16) Court of Appeal’s June 30, 2023, Order relating to
Christine’s Request for Judicial Notice in Consolidated Cases (P-RJN, Exh. 20); (17) Excerpts of Christine’s
Consolidated Opening Brief appealing the Probate Court’s quashing of the BCPD
LLP and Hess Verdon subpoenas filed on July 3, 2023, in the Court of Appeal
Case No. B323248 (P-RJN, Exh. 21); (18) Court of
Appeal’s July 17, 2023, Order granting an extension for Respondent’s brief
regarding the Probate Court’s quashing of the BCPD LLP and Hess Verdon
subpoenas in Case No. B321374 (P-RJN, Exh. 24); and (19) Court
of Appeal’s July 19, 2023, Order relating to Christine’s Request for Judicial
Notice in Case No. B312525 (P-RJN, Exh. 25), is granted, however the Court
does not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted.
Defendant’s
9/7/23 request for judicial notice of (1) Probate Court’s July 6, 2022, Minute
Orders Granting Benjamin’s Motion to Quash Subpoenas to Hess Verdon and BCPD in
Case No. BP154245 (D-RJN, Exh. A); and (2) Benjamin
Chui’s Petition, filed July 1, 2016, against Kode Li as Successor Trustee of
the Sinora Chan Separate Property Trust, In re Estate of Sinora Chan,
Case No. 22STBP02557 (D-RJN, Exh. B), is granted, however the Court does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted.
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P. §1987.1(a) provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things . . . at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party] . .
. , may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
Parties “may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (C.C.P. §2017.010.)  “The court shall limit the scope of discovery
if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” 
(C.C.P. §2017.020(a).)
Defendant bears the
burden to “set forth specific facts” and show that the requested discovery
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224; C.C.P. §2017.010.)  Courts
determine relevancy with regard to the burden and value of the information
requested.  (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 385 [finding that
courts may intervene to control discovery requests that place more burden upon
the adversary than the value of the information warrants], superseded on other grounds.)
 
Motion
to Quash
Defendant
concedes that while, Li did not have any involvement with the drafting of the
Trust Amendments, Li’s testimony is, by Plaintiffs’ own making, relevant to Plaintiffs’
claims and damages in the instant case because Plaintiffs insist Defendant’s
drafting of the Trust Amendments is responsible for more than $225,000 in
attorneys’ fees that Plaintiffs purportedly incurred moving to quash the
untimely subpoenas Christine served on Li’s lawyers.  (See Decl. of Garner ¶6.)  Defendant argues Li likely also possesses
knowledge relevant to Defendant’s unclean hands affirmative defense.  (Opposition Quash,
pg. 8.)  Defendant argues that
Benjamin appears to have breached his own fiduciary duties to the Trust by
fraudulently and recklessly mishandling trust funds while suing Defendant for
breach of fiduciary duties.  (Opposition
Quash, pg. 8.)  Defendant argues Benjamin
is currently in litigation with Li to recover $18 million in assets that
Benjamin appears to have fraudulently converted from his separate property to
the separate property of his then-wife, Sinora Chan, to avoid a threatened
surcharge against Benjamin for his breaches of trust.  (See P-RJN, Exh. B.)  Defendant argues Benjamin has also made no
effort to properly oversee and control the reckless litigation spending as
evidenced by the hundreds of thousands of dollars in attorneys’ fees Plaintiffs
spent to quash two untimely and procedurally improper subpoenas in the underlying
litigation.
Defendant met its burden to “set forth
specific facts” and show that the requested discovery appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc., 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224; C.C.P. §2017.010.)
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion to quash is denied.
 
Motion
for Protective Order
Any
party, witness, consumer, employee or person whose personal identifying
information is sought in connection with an action involving that person’s
right of free speech may seek a protective order against the subpoena or
deposition proceedings. The court may make whatever orders are appropriate to
protect that person from “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (C.C.P. §1987.1; see C.C.P.
§2025.420(b).)
Plaintiffs’
motion in the alternative for a protective order is granted.  Defendant’s Subpoena must be modified by
protective order to set Li’s deposition for a mutually convenient date and to
prevent the disclosure of any privileged information.  (C.C.P. §§1987.1, 2031.060.)  Plaintiffs argue Li’s information could only
be based on misappropriated privileged information Li only could have received
through Sinora Chan’s misappropriation of privileged matter. (Decl. of Chui
¶3.)  Plaintiffs argue the only information
Li could provide is related to the discovery sought in Christine’s
subpoenas—documents and emails from “Benjamin, his lawyers, and Guardian Ad
Litem Jackson Chen” which are privileged. 
To the extent Defendants’ line of questions pertains to privileged
information, Plaintiffs may object on a question-by-question basis.
 
Sanctions
In
light of the Court’s ruling, Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is denied and
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’
motion to quash is denied.
Plaintiffs’
motion in the alternative for a protective order is granted.  Defendant’s Subpoena
must be modified by protective order to set Li’s deposition for a mutually
convenient date and to prevent the disclosure of any privileged information.
Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is denied. 
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
 
Dated:  September _____, 2023
                                                                             





  