  Case Number:  21STCV24248    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HOMAYOON
  EBRAHIM-NEHORAY
  
         vs.
 
FARZIN
  AGHAIPOUR, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV24248 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 6, 2024




 
Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. Cross-Defendants’ motion in the alternative for summary
adjudication is also DENIED.
 
On 6/29/2022,
Plaintiff Homayoon Ebrahim-Nehoray (Plaintiff) filed suit against Farzin
Aghaipour, Shahla Sassounian, and Pacific Construction (collectively,
Defendants). On 6/9/2022, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC)
alleging: (1) trespass; and (2) private nuisance.
 
            On
9/12/2024, Cross-Defendants Homayoon Ebrahim-Nehoray and Homayoon Ebrahim-Nehoray
and Farahnaz Nehoray (Cross-Defendants) moved for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication of their Cross-Complaint.
 
Discussion  
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that the sole remaining cause of action for Interference with Easement
alleged therein against Cross-Defendants is without merit. More specifically,
Cross-Defendants argue that:
 
 Cross-Complainants’ Third Cause of Action for
Interference with Easement is without merit because Cross-Complainants, each of
them, cannot establish that Cross-Defendants’ planting of trees, shrubs, and
other landscaping in the Common Driveway Easement jointly held by
Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants has unreasonable interfered with
CrossComplainants’ utilization of the Common Driveway Easement for ingress and
egress to the public street from Cross-Complainants’ property, as alleged in
the Cross-Complaint
 
(Motion, 1:
15-20.) 
 
In support,
Cross-Defendants submit the following evidence:
 
-        
Nehoray is a homeowner in the Trousdale
Estates subdivision in Beverly Hills at 310 Trousdale Place; this property is
legally owned by Cross-Defendant HOMAYOON EBRAHIM-NEHORAY AND FARAHNAZ NEHORAY,
TRUSTEES OF THE NEHORAY LIVING TRUST UNDER TRUST AGREEMENT DATED DECEMBER 31,
1998 (Nehoray Trust). (SS 1.) 
 
-        
Cross-Complainants own the neighboring
property located at 320 Trousdale Place, with Cross-Complainant Farzin
Aghaipour living at the property. (SS 2.) 
 
-        
There is an easement between them for a
common use driveway, that was created via grant deed recorded in July 27, 1962
conferring mutual benefit to each property for use of the common driveway
established by the easement. (SS 3.) 
 
-        
Nehoray has lived at 310 Trousdale
since 1997. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
Cross-Complainants bought their
property in late 2015, at which point they commenced an extensive remodel and
reconstruction of the home there, as well as regrading and landscaping the
parcel. (SS 5.) 
 
-        
The allegedly offending foliage placed
in the Common Driveway Easement by Nehoray was already present when
Cross-Complainants purchased the 320 Trousdale home, and was in fact there when
Cross-Defendants purchased 310 Trousdale. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
The complained of trees, shrubs, and
other landscaping on the 310 Trousdale side the Common Driveway Easement do not
in any way obstruct or prevent Cross-Complainants’ use of the Common Driveway
Easement for ingress and egress. (SS 7.) 
 
-        
The complained of trees, shrubs, and
other landscaping on the 310 Trousdale side the Common Driveway Easement do not
protrude past the edge of the gated entryway, which CrossComplainants’
themselves built across the easement, and which itself restricts
Cross-Complainants’ point of ingress and egress from their property more than
anything else in the Common Driveway Easement. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
Cross-Complainant FARZIN AGHAIPOUR
stated that the damage he suffered as a result of CrossDefendants’ planting of
trees, shrubs, and other landscaping in the Common Driveway Easement, was that
it narrowed the common driveway did not permit his driving on the full scope of
the common driveway. (SS 9.) 
 
The rights
and duties between the owner of an easement and the owner of the servient
tenement are correlative; each is required to respect the rights of the other,
and neither party can conduct activities or place obstructions on the property
that unreasonably interfere with the other party's use of the property. (See
Inzana v. Turlock Irrigation Dist. Bd. of Directors (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th
429.)
 
The owner of
a servient tenement for a nonexclusive easement may make any use of the
property that does not unduly interfere with the easement. (See Dunn v.
Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1954) 43 Cal. 2d 265.) Owners of the servient
tenement may not use their property in a way that obstructs the normal use of
the easement (See Blackmore v. Powell (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 1593),
and any use of the servient estate that results in an unreasonable interference
with the easement's purpose is prohibited. (See Dolnikov v. Ekizian
(2013) 222 Cal. App. 4th 419.) 
 
Here,
Cross-Defendants’ evidence supports a reasonable inference that the complained
of trees, shrubs, and other landscaping on the 310 Trousdale side of the Common
Driveway Easement do not in any way obstruct or prevent Cross-Complainants’ use
of the Common Driveway Easement for ingress and egress.
 
Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Cross-Complainants to disclose a triable issue of material
fact. 
 
In
opposition, Cross-Complainants submitted evidence to argue the following:
 
Cross-Complainants
have a right to use the entire width of the Driveway Easement. However, the
trees, shrubs, and other landscaping have reduced the width of the Driveway
Easement. The Driveway Easement is approximately fifteen feet at its entrance
and widens to approximately 19.5 feet at the back. The trees, shrubs, and other
landscaping on the Driveway Easement spans 3 to 7.5 feet in width on
approximately the back half of the Driveway Easement (the “Interference Area”).
Thus, for a driveway that is approximately 15 to 19.5 feet wide, Nehoray has
obstructed approximately 20% to 38% of the back half of the Driveway Easement.
 
Moreover, a significant amount of branches and leaves of the
large tree have grown over half of the driveway. Currently, at the lowest
point, the branches and leaves are a mere six feet above the ground. As a
result, large vehicles that drive on that portion of the Driveway Easement,
such as UPS or Amazon delivery trucks or UHaul vehicles will hit those
branches. For example, the height of a 15’ UHaul delivery truck is 7 feet 2
inches. Based on Cross-Complainants’ understanding, CrossDefendants do not trim
the branches on the tree. Thus, as the tree continues to grow, the branches
will continue to grow further into the driveway and lower to the ground. Even
worse, Cross-Defendants’ Complaint claimed damages against Cross-Complainants
because their vehicles allegedly damaged the branches of the tree. However, if
branches were not overgrown and hanging over the Driveway Easement, they would
not have been damaged.
 
Moreover, high end property owners in Beverly Hills place
importance on a wide driveway. Specifically, they value a driveway with an
equivalent character as the main house. Indeed, the driveway adds to the fair
market value of the property.
 
Unfortunately, the Interference Area has significantly
reduced the appearance and size of the driveway at 320 Trousdale and
consequently, reduced its curb appeal and value. 
 
Lastly,
because Nehoray has reduced the width of the Driveway Easement, Aghaipour is
unable to plant landscaping on the portion of the driveway that is located on
320 Trousdale, which is not part of the Driveway Easement, without further
narrowing the driveway. As a result, Aghaipour is unable to beautify 320
Trousdale. The lack of landscaping on 320 Trousdale further makes it is more
difficult for visitors and prospective buyers to recognize the difference
between the two properties. Accordingly, Nehoray’s maintenance of landscaping
on the Driveway Easement has interfered with Aghaipour’s use of the Driveway
Easement and his ability to fully enjoy his own property.
 
            (See
SS.) 
 
            Indeed,
the photos submitted by Cross-Complainants could at least support a reasonable
inference that Cross-Defendants’ expansion of hedges on the side of their
property has caused an unreasonable interference with Cross-Complainants’ right
to use the driveway easement. “[A]ppellants may not use their property ‘in a
way that obstructs the normal use of the easement.’” (Blackmore v. Powell
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1593, 1599.) “Whether a particular use by the servient
owner of land subject to an easement is an unreasonable interference with the
rights of the dominant owner is a question of fact for the trier of fact…” (Id.)

 
            Cross-Complainants’
evidence is sufficient to disclose at least a triable issue. As such, whether
or not Cross-Defendants’ use of the easement, in fact, constitutes an
unreasonable interference is a question of fact not properly determined here. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.
Cross-Defendants’ motion in the alternative for summary adjudication is also
denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 