  Case Number:  19STCV46265    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  K 1.         Counsel for Defendant Daniel Leon’s
(i.e., Resnick & Louis, P.C.) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of the proof
of service showing service of the signed order
upon the Client at the Client’s last known address.
2.         Counsel for Defendant Steve Melnick’s
(i.e., Resnick & Louis, P.C.) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED without
prejudice.
3.          Counsel for Defendant S&J Pomona,
LLC dba Krazy J’s Grill’s (i.e., Resnick & Louis, P.C.) Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of the proof of service showing
service of the signed order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address.
Background   
Plaintiff Abel Chavez (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On or about February 1, 2019, Plaintiff was a customer of S&J Pomona, LLC
dba Krazy J’s Grill (erroneously sued as Krazy J’s) (“Krazy J’s Grill”) when he
was attacked.
On December 26,
2019, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Krazy J’s
Grill and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Premises
Liability
3.                 
Negligent
Hiring, Training, Supervision and Retention of Security Guards
4.                 
Battery 
On July 2,
2020, Plaintiff filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein “S&J Pomona,
LLC” was named in lieu of Doe 1. On August 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed two
“Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Steve Melnick (“Melnick”) was named in
lieu of Doe 2 and Pomona Fox Theater Master Tenant, LLC (“Pomona Fox Master”) was
named in lieu of Doe 3.
On October
29, 2021, Pomona Fox Theater filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of
action against Krazy J’s Grill and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity 
2.                 
Contribution
3.                 
Breach
of Contract
4.                 
Express
Indemnity
5.                 
Negligence
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief
7.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend 
On February 28, 2022, this case was transferred from Department 29 of the Personal Injury Court
to this instant department.
 
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed four
“Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Pomona Fox Theater, LLC (“Pomona Fox
Theater”) was named in lieu of Doe 4, Pomona Fox Theater Manager, LLC (“Pomona
Fox Manager”) was named in lieu of Doe 5, Pomona Fox Concessions, LLC (“Pomona
Fox Concessions”) was named in lieu of Doe 6 and Daniel Leon (“Leon”) was named
in lieu of Doe 7.
On February
14, 2023, Pomona Fox Concessions, Pomona Fox Manager and Pomona Fox Theater
filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Krazy J’s Grill and
Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Contribution
3.                 
Breach
of Contract
4.                 
Express
Indemnity
5.                 
Negligence
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief
7.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
The Trial Setting
Conference is set for November 16, 2023.
Discussion
Resnick & Louis,
P.C. (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Leon,
Melnick and Krazy J’s Grill (“Clients”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rule of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
At the outset, the motion is summarily denied without prejudice as
to Melnick. Attorney Robert A. Hufnagel (“Hufnagel”) represents that the
reasons for the motion are set forth on Attachment 2; however, no Attachment 2
has been provided with respect to the motion re: Melnick.
Hufnagel represents in relevant part, as to Leon
and Krazy J’s Grill,
that the Firm was originally retained by Krazy J’s Grill’s insurance carrier to
provide a defense, and that the Firm made an appearance for Krazy J’s Grill and
later for Melnick and Leon as Krazy J’s Grill’s agents or representatives. The
insurance carrier has notified the Clients that the coverage available under
the policy has been exhausted and the defense is withdrawn. Hunagel has asked
the Clients to make alternative arrangements by the end of August and/or
substitute new counsel but they have not done so. The Clients disagree with the
coverage decision made by the insurance carrier. There is a conflict between
the insurance carrier that retained the Firm and the Clients.
Hufnagel states that he has served the Clients by mail at the Clients’
last known address and has confirmed, within the past 30 days, that the
address(es) is/are current, by calling and emailing.
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been
sufficiently met as to Leon and Krazy
J’s Grill.
Accordingly, those
motions are granted, effective upon the filing of proofs
of service showing service of the signed orders upon
Leon and Krazy J’s Grill respectively at their last known address(es).