  Case Number:  22STCV21799    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  39 3800 West Sixth
Street, LLC v. Steven C. Kim
Case No.
22STCV21799
Motions to Compel
Further Responses
 
            Defendant
Steven C. Kim (“Defendant”) moves to compel further responses from Plaintiffs
to the following discovery requests: (1) Special Interrogatories, Set One, from
3800 West Sixth Street, LLC; and (2) Requests for Production (“RPD”), Set One
and Set Two, from both plaintiffs.  The
Court ordered the parties to meet-and-confer concerning these motions and file
a joint status report on or before October 23, 2023.  The parties could not resolve the dispute, so
the Court set the motions for hearing.   

 
            A.        Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories 
 
            Plaintiff
has supplemented its responses to the 53 special interrogatories at issue.  Therefore, Defendant’s motion is denied as
moot.  The Court denies Defendant’s
request for sanctions.  Defendant’s
counsel should have served the SROGs on Ms. Vallier and/or Mr. Lieb’s secretary
as requested.  
 
            B.        Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents 
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel represents: “Plaintiffs have consistently stated that, other than
private financial information, they would produce responsive documents.”  (See Omnibus Opposition, p. 3:15-17.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel represents: “Plaintiffs
have now supplemented each response to [Defendant’s] Demands for Production,
Sets One and Two to indicate whether responsive documents exist and will be
produced subject to entry of a protective order, or whether documents do not
exist or are not in the possession of Plaintiffs.”  (Id., p. 2:23-27.)  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court grants the four motions to compel further production
of documents.  The Court orders as
follows: (1) Plaintiffs shall produce all responsive non-confidential documents
within thirty (30) days; (2) The parties shall submit a stipulation for a
protective order based upon the standard form agreement on the Court’s website;
(3) Plaintiffs shall produce all responsive confidential documents within
thirty (30) days of the Court’s issuance of the protective order; and (4) Plaintiffs
shall supplement their responses with respect to non-existent documents and
documents not in their possession, custody, or control to satisfy Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230 within thirty (30) days.  Specifically, Plaintiffs’ counsel states that
the response indicates “whether documents do not exist or are not in the
possession of Plaintiffs.”  This response
does not contain all information required by section 2031.230, e.g., “the name
and address of any nature person or organization known or believed by that
party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.”  
 
            The Court
denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.  The Court finds that both parties bear
responsibility for this dispute, making any award of sanctions unjust.  Moreover, the requested sanctions—totaling
$21,450 plus $300 in filing fees—is excessive and not supported by the
record.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to the Special Interrogatories is denied.
 
            2.         Defendant’s four motions to compel
further responses to the Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two and Set
Three, against both plaintiffs are granted. 

 
            3.         The parties shall do the following: (a)
Plaintiffs shall produce all responsive non-confidential documents within
thirty (30) days; (b) The parties shall submit a stipulation for a protective
order based upon the standard form agreement on the Court’s website; (c)
Plaintiffs shall produce all responsive confidential documents within thirty
(30) days of the Court’s issuance of the protective order; and (d) Plaintiffs
shall supplement their responses with respect to non-existent documents and
documents not in their possession, custody, or control to satisfy Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230 within thirty (30) days. 
 
            4.         The Court advances Plaintiffs’ pending
discovery motions and motion for a protective order from April 2 and April 3,
2024, to March 14, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
 
            5.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
            
 
 