 Case Number:  23STCV24766    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 22, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         David Oday, et al. v. 118 Wadsworth
Avenue Homeowners Association, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24766            
 
HEARING ON ORDER
TO SHOW CAUSE RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs David Oday and Lakota Patrick Ford
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants 118
Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners Association; Carl Kubitz
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract and habitability defect action filed on
October 11, 2023. Plaintiffs allege Defendants refused to replace the roof of
Plaintiff’s condominium, causing extensive water damage and mold throughout the
unit. Plaintiffs also allege Defendants improperly issued special assessments in
violation of the operative covenants, conditions, and restrictions on the
property, and retaliated against Plaintiffs for raising these issues. 
 
The Court granted Plaintiffs’ ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order on December 14, 2023,
and now rules on an Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Court issues the following
preliminary injunction:
 
Defendant
118 Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners Association, its employees, agents, including
Tier 1 Collections, or any other persons acting with it or on its behalf is
enjoined from: 
 
1)      Proceeding
with any further action under the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded
against the real property located at 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica,
California 90405, assessor’s parcel number 42880017-043 (the “Subject
Property”), on November 21, 2023, as document number 20230807916 in the
official records of Los Angeles County; 
 
2)      Filing
any further notices of delinquent assessments or sale of the Subject Property
to satisfy any alleged delinquent assessments relating to the assessments
identified in the Notice of Delinquent Assessment recorded on November 21,
2023; except that Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’
Association may assert as cross-claims in this action any causes of action
arising from the assessments in dispute, and may take all measures which are
necessary prerequisites to asserting those claims, including serving the
relevant Notices described in Civil Code sections 5705 and 5710.
 
3)      From
taking any action of any kind concerning the Subject Property, including but
not limited to, interfering with, non-judicially foreclosing on, or selling or
otherwise disposing of the land or premises, based on the Notice of Delinquent
Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023; 
 
4)      For
an order enjoining Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’
Association from taking any further action to collect based on the Notice of
Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023; 
 
5)      For
an order staying any non-judicial foreclosure action based on the Notice of
Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023.
 
 Plaintiffs are ordered to post an undertaking
in the amount of $70,416.09 within 30 days of this order pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 529 and 1030. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            On December
12, 2023, Plaintiffs applied ex parte for a temporary restraining order
enjoining Defendants from proceeding with collection or non-judicial
foreclosure on the subject property. Following a hearing on the matter, the
Court granted the application, scheduled a hearing on an Order to Show Cause
Re: Preliminary Injunction, and issued a Temporary Restraining Order pending
this hearing which restrained and enjoined Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowners Associations and its employees, agents, or other persons acting with
it or on its behalf from:
 
1) Proceeding with any further action
under the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded against the real property
located at 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica, California 90405,
assessor’s parcel number 4288-017-043 (the “Subject Property”), on November 21,
2023, as document number 20230807916 in the official records of Los Angeles
County;
 
(2) Filing any further notices of
delinquent assessments or selling the subject property to satisfy any alleged
delinquent assessments;
 
(3) From taking action of any kind
concerning the subject property, including but not limited to, interfering
with, non-judicially foreclosing on, or selling or otherwise disposing of the
land or premises; and
 
(4) Taking any further action to
collect alleged delinquent assessments.
 
(December 14, 2023 Minute Order.) The Court also stayed Defendant’s
non-judicial foreclosure action pending this hearing. (Id.)
 
The Court ordered Defendant 118
Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners Association to appear to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not be ordered restraining Defendant, its
employees, agents, including Tier 1 Collections, or any other persons acting on
its behalf from: 
 
(1) Proceeding with any further action
under the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded against the real property
located at 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica, California 90405,
assessor’s parcel number 4288-017-043 (the “Subject Property”), on November 21,
2023, as document number 20230807916 in the official records of Los Angeles
County;
 
(2) Filing any further notices of
delinquent assessments or selling the subject property to satisfy any alleged
delinquent assessments;
 
(3) From taking action of any kind
concerning the subject property, including but not limited to, interfering
with, non-judicially foreclosing on, or selling or otherwise disposing of the
land or premises;
 
(4) For a temporary restraining order
rescinding Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’ Association Notice of
Delinquent Assessment;
 
(5) For a temporary restraining order
enjoining Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’ Association from taking
any further action to collect alleged delinquent assessments; and
 
(6) For a temporary restraining order
staying the non-judicial foreclosure action. Moreover, during the pendency of
this action:
 
(7) Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowners Association’s Notice of Delinquent Assessment is rescinded;
 
(8) Defendant 118 Wadsworth Avenue
Homeowners Association’s Notice of Delinquent Assessment non-judicial
foreclosure action is stayed.
 
(Id.) The Court set a briefing schedule for
opposition and reply briefs, which the parties complied with. The Court held a
hearing on the motion for preliminary injunction on January 5, 2024, when
Defendant raised new arguments regarding the proper scope of a preliminary
injunction raising contentions and citing authorities not previously briefed by
Defendant. Further, it was revealed by Plaintiff’s counsel that he never
received Defendant’s opposition brief filed on December 22, 2023, and, thus,
did not have an opportunity to respond to Defendant’s request that the Court
impose a bond requirement.
 
            After
reviewing the initial papers and considering the arguments presented at the
January 5, 2024 hearing, the Court ruled that Plaintiffs had demonstrated that
they are entitled to a preliminary injunction because they had demonstrated (1)
a substantial risk of irreparable harm arising from the threat of nonjudicial
foreclosure represented by Defendant’s collections action. (January 5, 2024
Minute Order p. 9) and (2) because Plaintiff Oday had demonstrated a likelihood
of success on the merits of his breach of contract claim. (Id. p. 11.) The
Court ordered, however, that Items (4) and (7) of Plaintiffs’ request for
preliminary injunction be stricken because they constituted mandatory
injunctive relief that was not justified by the evidence presented. (Id.)
The Court requested further briefing from the parties regarding the proper
scope of the injunction and the request for a bond requirement, declined to
issue the injunction pending that supplemental briefing, set the matter for
further hearing, and ordered that the temporary restraining order remain in
force through the date of the further hearing. (Id. pp. 11-12.) 
 
            The parties
served and filed their supplemental briefing pursuant to the Court’s order. The
Court has reviewed these papers, and now sets forth its ruling on the scope of
the injunction and the bond issue as set forth below.
 
Scope of Injunction
 
            Defendant
proposes that the Court issue the following injunction to preserve Defendant’s
right to assert a cross-claim for judicial foreclosure:
 
(1)  
Upon issuance of this preliminary injunction order, the
Plaintiffs shall at all times meet the following conditions:
 
a.      
Plaintiffs shall pay any and all newly levied
assessments pursuant to Civil Code §5600; 
 
b.     
Plaintiffs shall stay current on their mortgage to any
prevent any default which may cause the foreclosure by any other creditor on
the property known as 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica, California
90405 (“Subject Property”); 
 
c.      
Plaintiffs shall keep current on their property taxes
for Subject Property and not allow for any delinquencies that will cause the
County to commence foreclosure proceedings; and 
 
d.     
Plaintiffs shall not engage in any new violations of
the Association’s Governing Documents (Civil Code §4150) while the preliminary
injunction is in effect which may cause for new assessments to be levied onto
the Subject Property; 
 
e.      
Plaintiffs shall immediately post their bond or may
make a cash deposit with the Court (CCP §995.710) with the court in the amount
of $77,091.09; and 
 
(2)  
Defendant Association and its collection vendor Tier
One shall be enjoined from posting a notice of sale pursuant to Civil Code
§2924.8.
 
(3)  
Excluded from the preliminary injunction order are as
follows: Defendant Association shall be entitled to serve any and all notices
that are not a Notice of Sale (Civil Code §2924.8) so that it may pursue any
and all causes of action that may arise from Plaintiffs delinquent assessments,
and specifically Defendants may complete the process with serving the relevant
Notices described in Civil Code §5705 and Civil Code §5710. 
 
(4)  
Defendant Association may make a motion to dissolve the
injunctive order at any time Plaintiff fails to meet the conditions of this
Order.
 
(Defendant’s Supp. Opp. p.8:27-9:22.) 
 
            Defendant’s proposed injunction
imposes only limited restrictions on Defendant’s conduct while placing
extensive limitations on Plaintiffs, as if Defendant were the party seeking a
preliminary injunction. Moreover, Defendant offers little explanation for this
proposed scope and has instead devoted most of its brief to repeating the
arguments raised in opposition to the injunction itself and previously rejected
by the Court. The Court did not invite further briefing on
whether an injunction was warranted, and these portions of Defendant’s
supplemental briefing fall entirely outside the scope of the Court’s January 5
order. Further still, the Court considered these arguments when they were
raised in the original opposition and found them unpersuasive. The Court finds,
moreover, that the injunction proposed by Defendant is an overbroad solution to
the issues it seeks to address.
 
In reply, Plaintiffs offer the following counterproposal:
 
Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth
Avenue Homeowner’s Association is enjoined from: 
 
1)      Proceeding
with any further action under the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded
against the real property located at 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica,
California 90405, assessor’s parcel number 42880017-043 (the “Subject
Property”), on November 21, 2023, as document number 20230807916 in the
official records of Los Angeles County; 
 
2)      Filing
any further notices of delinquent assessments or sale of the Subject Property
to satisfy any alleged delinquent assessments relating to the assessments
identified in the Notice of Delinquent Assessment recorded on November 21,
2023; 
 
3)      From
taking any action of any kind concerning the Subject Property, including but
not limited to, interfering with, non-judicially foreclosing on, or selling or
otherwise disposing of the land or premises; 
 
4)      For
an order enjoining Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’
Association from taking any further action to collect based
on the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023; 
 
5)      For
an order staying the non-judicial foreclosure action based on the Notice of
Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023.
 
(Supp. Reply p. 3:1-16.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’
proposed injunction appears to miss the point of Defendant’s arguments as
presented in the previous hearing. Defendant’s chief objection to the originally
proposed injunction, as argued, was that it would bar Defendant from serving
notices which are a necessary prerequisite to asserting cross-claims for
judicial foreclosure, pursuant to Civil Code sections 5705 and 5710. Although
Plaintiffs’ proposal constrains its restriction on further Notices of
Delinquent Assessment to only the assessments that are presently in dispute,
this proposal does not appear to preserve Defendant’s ability to complete those
prerequisites, because it restricts Defendant from taking any
further action on the subject property under Item (2). The Court therefore will
modify Item (3) of this proposal to further state “except that Defendant One
Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’ Association may assert as cross-claims in
this action any causes of action arising from the assessments in dispute, and
may take all measures which are necessary prerequisites to asserting those
claims, including serving the relevant Notices described in Civil Code sections
5705 and 5710.”  The Court also revises
Item (2) to limit it to actions taken “based on the Notice of Delinquent
Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023.”
 
//
Undertaking
            Defendants requested that the Court require Plaintiffs to
post an undertaking in the amount of $77,091.09, representing the outstanding
assessments on the property set forth in the Notice of Delinquent Assessment.
(See RJN Exh. 2.) Code of Civil Procedure section 529 requires that, when an
injunction is granted, “the court or judge must require an undertaking on the
part of the applicant to the effect that the applicant will pay to the party
enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, the party may sustain
by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the applicant
was not entitled to the injunction.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a).) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
should not be permitted to address the bond issue in supplemental reply because
Plaintiffs’ counsel purportedly misrepresented that Plaintiffs were not served
with the original opposition. Defendant provides no evidence demonstrating that
Plaintiffs’ counsel made any misrepresentations to the Court. Defendant is not
in a position to opine on whether Plaintiffs’ counsel received the original
opposition, only whether it was sent. That Defendant’s counsel did not receive
a bounce-back notification when service was attempted is not evidence of
receipt: it is instead the absence of evidence. (See Declaration of
Maria Kao ISO Supp. Opp. ¶¶ 2-3.) The Court is therefore not persuaded that it
should reject the supplemental reply brief. 
 
            In any
event, Plaintiffs’ supplemental brief does not object to an order requiring
that a bond be posted. Plaintiffs merely dispute the proper amount of the bond,
stating that Plaintiff Oday made a payment of $6,675.00 on December 22, 2023,
after the motion had been filed. (See Declaration of Scott Kalter ISO Reply
[not Supplemental Reply] ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) Plaintiffs contend that this payment
reflected assessments which are not being challenged and should therefore be
subtracted from the bond sought by Defendants. The Court concurs. 
The Court
therefore orders Plaintiffs to post a bond in the amount of $70,416.09 pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 529.
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, the Court issues the
following preliminary injunction:
 
Defendant
118 Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners Association, its employees, agents, including
Tier 1 Collections, or any other persons acting with it or on its behalf is
enjoined from: 
 
6)      Proceeding
with any further action under the Notice of Delinquent Assessment, recorded
against the real property located at 118 Wadsworth Ave., Unit 8, Santa Monica,
California 90405, assessor’s parcel number 42880017-043 (the “Subject
Property”), on November 21, 2023, as document number 20230807916 in the
official records of Los Angeles County; 
 
7)      Filing
any further notices of delinquent assessments or sale of the Subject Property
to satisfy any alleged delinquent assessments relating to the assessments
identified in the Notice of Delinquent Assessment recorded on November 21,
2023; except that Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’
Association may assert as cross-claims in this action any causes of action
arising from the assessments in dispute, and may take all measures which are
necessary prerequisites to asserting those claims, including serving the
relevant Notices described in Civil Code sections 5705 and 5710.
 
8)      From
taking any action of any kind concerning the Subject Property, including but
not limited to, interfering with, non-judicially foreclosing on, or selling or
otherwise disposing of the land or premises based on the Notice of Delinquent
Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023; 
 
9)      For
an order enjoining Defendant One Eighteen Wadsworth Avenue Homeowners’
Association from taking any further action to collect based on the Notice of
Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023; 
 
10)  For an
order staying the non-judicial foreclosure action based on the Notice of
Delinquent Assessment, recorded on November 21, 2023.
 
 Plaintiffs are ordered to post an undertaking in
the amount of $70,416.09 within 30 days of this order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 529 and 1030. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: February 22, 2024                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 