 Case Number:  20STCV03704    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 22, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
April 16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ryan Suavet, et al. v. DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV03704            
 
(1)   MOTION
IN LIMINE NO. 8 TO EXCLUDE TESTIMONY BY DEFENSE EXPERT DAVID E. BENKERT
(2)   MOTION
IN LIMINE NO. 9 TO EXCLUDE CERTAIN TESTIMONY OF RICHARD HOLSTROM

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiffs Ryan Suavet, Laetitia Suavet
Vinciguerra, and I Think I Got It, LLC; (2) Defendants DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC; Thomas Nariman; 110 Sunshine Smoothies, Inc. and Gholam and
Fariba Atighehchi; 
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendants
DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC; Thomas Nariman; 110 Sunshine Smoothies,
Inc. and Gholam and Fariba Atighehchi; (2) Plaintiffs Ryan Suavet, Laetitia
Suavet Vinciguerra, and I Think I Got It, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/29/20: Complaint filed
·        
12/10/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants breached a franchise agreement with Plaintiffs to open a coffee
shop. 
 
The parties filed cross-motions in
limine regarding the exclusion of expert testimony.  
 
//
 
//
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’ Motion in
Limine No. 8 is GRANTED IN PART as to Mr. Benkert’s opinions
regarding the adequacy of DRNK’s capitalization, the nature of cash balance
adjustments, and as to the analysis of the alter ego factors.
 
            Defendants’
Motion in Limine No. 9 is DENIED. This ruling is without prejudice to a
subsequent motion in the event Mr. Holstrom is called to testify at trial.   
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Service and Filing of Motions
 
            On January
17, 2024, the Court ordered that the parties were to serve and file these
motions by January 26, 2024. (January 17, 2024 Minute Order.) Neither side complied
with this order. Both motions were served and filed on February 2, 2024. (See
Proofs of Service.)  While compliance
with the orders of this Court is not optional, neither party objected to the
opposing motion as lacking sufficient notice, and, for this reason, the Court
will consider the motions on their merits. The parties are admonished in future
to comply with all deadlines set by the Court. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion in Limine No. 8
 
            Plaintiffs move
to exclude certain portions of the report by Defendants’ accounting expert
David E. Benkert on the basis that those portions lack foundation or exceed the
permissible scope of expert testimony. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request in their reply that the Court take judicial notice of certain
documents. As these materials are not relevant to the Court’s ruling,
Plaintiffs’ requests are DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen
(1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to
those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Legal Standard for Expert Opinion Testimony
 
            Expert
opinion testimony is admissible when that opinion is:
 
(a) Related to a subject that is
sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would
assist the trier of fact; and 
 
(b) Based on matter (including his
special knowledge, skill, experience, training, and education) perceived by or
personally known to the witness or made known to him at or before the hearing,
whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon
by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his testimony
relates, unless an expert is precluded by law from using such matter as a basis
for his opinion.
 
(Evid. Code § 801.) The Court must, upon objection, “exclude
testimony in the form of an opinion that is based in whole or in significant
part on matter that is not a proper basis for such an opinion.” (Evid. Code §
803.) “[T]he trial court acts as a gatekeeper to exclude expert testimony that
is (1) based on matter of a type on which an expert may not reasonably rely,
(2) based on reasons unsupported by the material on which the expert relies, or
(3) speculative.” (Sargon Enterprises Inc. v. University of Southern
California (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771-72.)  Although an expert opinion may be based in
part on hearsay, an expert cannot “relate as true case-specific facts asserted
in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent
evidence or are covered by a hearsay exception.” (People
v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665, 686.) 
 
Challenged Expert Opinions
 
            Plaintiffs
seek to exclude certain portions of Mr. Benkert’s report because they are
unsupported, supported by improper hearsay, or are an improper expert or legal
opinion. Specifically, Plaintiffs seek to exclude opinions (1) on DRNK’s
capitalization (Declaration of R. Michael Ghilezan ISO Mot. Exh. 1. pp. 4, 21);
(2) on the integrity of DRNK’s Quickbooks records (Id. p. 6); (3) on the
factors for an alter ego determination (pp. 4, 23); (4) on adjustments to
DRNK’s cash balance at the end of December 2019; (5) on reimbursements by DRNK
for expenses incurred by Sherry Moaven and Thomas Nariman (p.4, 21-22); and (6)
on the DRNK/110SS Accounts Receivable (Royalty Owed and “Due to/from” accounts).
(Id. 11-12.) 
 
1.     
Opinion on Adequacy of DRNK Capitalization
 
Plaintiffs move to exclude Mr.
Benkert’s opinion that DRNK’s initial capitalization was adequate because it is
unsupported and improper legal opinion. Mr. Benkert’s report states that he
“[r]eviewed the capitalization and operational results for DRNK from 2015 -
2021 and determined that its initial capitalization appeared sufficient and
that it had positive equity in each of the years between 2015-2021.” (Ghilezan
Decl. Exh. 1. p.4, see also p.21.)
 
Whether an entity is adequately
capitalized to conduct its business is one of several factors in determining
whether that entity should be considered an alter ego. (Associated Vendors,
Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 839.) A business is undercapitalized
when it has insufficient assets to service its debts and conduct its business.
(See, e.g., Automotriz del Golfo de California S.A. De C.V. v. Resnick
(1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796–97.) 
 
Plaintiffs first argue that, as an
expert, Mr. Benkert is not permitted to opine on whether DRNK has adequate
capital because it is a legal conclusion. However, as Plaintiffs’ own moving
papers state, undercapitalization is a factual question, not a legal
question. Further, Plaintiffs offer no authority suggesting that the question
of undercapitalization must be left entirely to the trier of fact. The Court is
therefore disinclined to exclude Mr. Benkert’s opinion on this basis. 
 
Plaintiffs also argue that, even if
Benkert’s opinion on capitalization is proper expert opinion, it is not
supported by an adequate evidentiary foundation. Plaintiffs state that Mr.
Benkert’s conclusion is based on his reading of the 2017 Financial Statements,
which purport to show an initial investment of $428,000 in 2015 and a balance
of $415,309. (See Ghilezan Exh. 1 p.19.) However, as the report states, these documents
were produced during an audit in April 2017, after the QuickBooks records had
to be rebuilt following a crash on January 31, 2017. (Id. pp.6-7.) Further,
Mr. Benkert testified in deposition that he did not look at bank statements in
preparing his report, but rather that he relied upon the credibility of the
auditor, whom he assumed would have looked at bank statements and the
QuickBooks documents. (Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 2 pp. 13-14.) Plaintiffs thus argue
that Mr. Benkert has no basis for his conclusion because he is simply reporting
what DRNK’s records show, rather than opining on whether the assets described
actually exist such that DRNK had adequate capitalization. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs are casting unsupported aspersions on the integrity of the records
and the audit on which Mr. Benkert relies. As Defendants state, Mr. Benkert
testified that he relied on the verification in the audit that the audit is
factually correct. (See Defendants’ Exh. 4. p. 21:17-24.) However, although
Defendants assert that Mr. Benkert is entitled to presume the truth of an audit
performed by a licensed auditor, they provide no authority for that position.
Further, Defendants fail to reckon with the statement in the Report that DRNK’s
original QuickBooks records were lost before the audit was completed. Thus, the
Report itself offers evidence that the audit’s trustworthiness cannot be
presumed, notwithstanding Defendants’ dismissal of witness testimony
challenging the integrity of the records. 
 
The Court is persuaded that this
portion of the expert report lacks adequate foundation to support the conclusion
that DRNK had adequate capital to conduct its business. That portion of Mr.
Benkert’s expert opinion must therefore be excluded. 
 
2.     
 Opinion
on Integrity of QuickBooks Records
 
Plaintiffs move to exclude Mr.
Benkert’s opinion on the tiered approach for financial reporting employed by
DRNK as unsupported expert opinion on the integrity of DRNK’s QuickBooks
records. The report states only that “In my experience, this tiered approach is
not only normative but is an important practice to ensure the integrity, and
accuracy, of financial statements.” (Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 1. p.6.) This is not a
commentary on the integrity of DRNK’s records, merely a statement that the
three-tiered approach using in-house recordkeeping, an independent auditor, and
a third-party accountant is a standard industry practice that serves a
necessary function. Plaintiffs are overreaching with respect their effort to
strike this opinion. 
 
//
 
3.     
Opinion on Alter Ego Factors
 
            Plaintiffs
also seek to exclude Mr. Benkert’s discussion of the Defendants’ maintenance of
records and legal formalities separating the various Defendants as both lacking
foundation and constituting improper legal opinion. 
 
            Section 5.4
of the Report states in its entirety:
 
We were asked to review select factors
that were established in the case Associated Vendors v. Oakland Meat CO
(1962).[fn 27].
 
Factor 4 - The holding out by an
individual that he is personally liable for the debts of the corporation; the
failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records, and the confusion of
the records of the separate entities.
 
 • We observed from documents produced in the
matter that 110 SS maintained separate accounting and financial records using
QuickBooks to record its financial transactions. 
 
• 110 SS filed separate tax returns. 
 
• We observed that 110 SS maintained
separate bank accounts from DRNK. 
 
Factor 10 - The disregard of legal
formalities and the failure to maintain arm's length relationships among
related entities.
 
• We observed that transactions
between 110 SS and DRNK were documented in its financial records.
 
(Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 2. p.23.) Footnote 27 is a recitation
of the alter ego factors set forth in Associated Vendors. (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
first argue that these opinions should be excluded because they are not
supported by any of the sources identified in the Report. According to
Plaintiffs, none of the documents identified in Attachment B as relied upon by
Mr. Benkert pertain to 110 Sunshine’s financial records, bank accounts, or tax
returns, and Defendants’ expert admitted in deposition that he did not have
access to 110SS’s records. (Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 2. P. 93:1-7.) Defendants, in
opposition, concede that the documents referenced in Attachment B are not
relevant to these issues, but assert that Mr. Benkert reviewed the production
of documents from the third-party subpoena to CPA Aram Aginian, including bank
statements, tax returns, and QuickBooks Reports. This assertion is based
entirely on a declaration from Defendants’ counsel, Brent Kramer, who claims
personal knowledge based on his communications with Mr. Benkert. (Declaration
of Brent Kramer ISO Opp. ¶7.) Defendants claim that Mr. Benkert’s failure to
include the documents which he actually relied upon was a mere oversight. This
declaration directly contradicts Benkert’s deposition testimony offered by both
Plaintiffs and Defendants. (Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 2. p. 93; see also Kramer Decl.
Exh. 4 pp. 30-34.) Defendants claim that Mr. Benkert reviewed the Defendants’
tax returns and that his testimony that he did not review 110SS’s QuickBooks
was in reference only to that evidence excluded by the Court’s previous orders.
(See Kramer Decl. Exh. 4 pp. 30:1-6; 33:8-34:3.) But Defendants’ assertions
regarding the context of Mr. Benkert’s testimony are not apparent from the
record, and, crucially, Mr. Benkert expressly stated that he did not rely on
110SS’s tax returns. (Kramer Decl. Exh. 4. pp.30:1-6.) This does not appear to
be an oversight: it appears that these documents were omitted because they were
not reviewed or not relied upon in preparing the report. 
 
            As the
parties agree that none of the documents referenced in the report pertain to
Mr. Benkert’s conclusions regarding the records and transactions with respect
to the alter ego factors, the Court finds that these opinions lack foundation
and must be excluded. 
 
4.     
Opinion on Cash Balance Adjustments
 
            Plaintiffs
object to the Report’s discussion of adjustments to DRNK’s cash balance at the
end of 2019 as being based on improper hearsay. The Report states:
 
Mr. Holstrom points out a series of
journal entries recorded on 12/31/2019 that reduced the cash balance by
$179,071 and suggested that account was an error and should have been adjusted
in previous years. 
 
Rebuttal: Based on my review of
QuickBooks and discussions with Sherry Moaven, this account was closed in
January of 2019. In 2019 she made the adjustments to the account at the end of
the year. The total adjustment was primarily comprised of the following actions
on 12/31/2019: 
 
1. Reclassification of payment
($86,081) previously recorded in a "Suspense" account, to the
"3201.01 - Other" account. 
 
2. Adjustment of cash ($94,799) to
correct the balance per the bank statement.
 
(Ghilezan Decl. p.10.) Plaintiffs assert that Mr. Benkert’s
knowledge of these adjustments originates solely from discussions with Sherry
Moaven, and, further, that Ms. Moaven has no recollection of these adjustments,
nor of discussing them with Mr. Benkert. Neither of these conclusions are
apparent from either the Report or the excerpt of Ms. Moaven’s testimony at
trial included with the moving papers. (See Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 3.) That said,
Plaintiffs’ reply papers include the relevant portion of Ms. Moaven’s trial
testimony which does corroborate Plaintiffs’ contention. (See Supplemental
Declaration of R. Michael Ghilezan Exh. 2.)  Plaintiffs’ reply papers do not account for
the conclusion that Mr. Benkert’s knowledge of the adjustments originates from
discussions with Ms. Moaven.  But to the
extent that Mr. Benkert’s opinions are based solely on Ms. Moaven’s purported
statements, as to which she has no independent recollection nor any memory of
discussing with Mr. Benkert, the expert’s testimony would be excluded from
trial as grounded solely on case-specific evidence absent from the trial
record.  (People v. Sanchez, supra, 63
Cal.4th at p. 686.) Thus, unless Defendants can demonstrate an evidentiary
basis for Mr. Benkert’s opinion, it must be excluded as untethered to any
factual foundation.   
 
5.     
Opinion on Reimbursements for Nariman and Moaven
Expenses
 
            Plaintiffs’
objection with respect to this opinion appears to be focused principally on the
summary of Mr. Benkert’s opinion that the payments “appeared to be for
the reimbursement of business expenses and for owner draws.” (Ghilezan Decl.
Exh.1 p.4.) As should be apparent from the context, this statement is a summary
of Mr. Benkert’s more detailed analysis set forth later in the report in
sections 5.2 and 5.3. (Id. pp.21-22.) Further, the report plainly states
that its only function with respect to these payments is to identify the
payments set forth in the QuickBooks records to Ms. Moaven and Defendant
Nariman and describe those which appear from the records to be
business-related. (Id. p.21.) Although such identification does not
carry much evidentiary weight, nothing about this method, as described,
renders this portion of the Report inadmissible. Plaintiffs have failed to
demonstrate that this opinion should be excluded. 
 
6.     
Opinion as to Accounts Receivable
 
            Finally,
Plaintiffs seek to exclude Mr. Benkert’s opinion as to Accounts Receivable as
lacking foundation and constituting an improper legal conclusion. The relevant
portion of the Report states: 
 
The existence of a separate Due To/Due
From account implies a deliberate intent to separately track amounts by or to
the separate entities. Based on interviews with Sherry and Fariba, 110 SS kept
a separate tracking of these expenses as well.
 
(Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 1. pp.11-12.) Plaintiffs assert that
Mr. Benkert’s opinion is flawed because it considers a range of dates between
2015 and 2021 (i.e., after this action commenced), rather than stopping in 2020,
when Plaintiffs shuttered their only DRNK-branded store. (See Mot. p.14:19.) Plaintiffs
provide no authority supporting the contention that the expert should have
limited his analysis in this matter, never mind that failing to do so
constitutes an “improper legal conclusion.” 
 
            Plaintiffs’
contention that this opinion lacks foundation as to 110 Sunshine’s tracking of
expenses is similarly unsupported. Plaintiffs assert that the sole topic which
Mr. Benkert discussed with Fariba Atighehchi was not relevant to this opinion. However,
that claim is contradicted by the deposition transcript, in which Mr. Benkert
plainly states that they discussed in general terms how the account
between DRNK and 110SS was paid off. (See Ghilezan Decl. Exh. 2.
pp.41:20-42:13.) Mr. Benkert’s admission that he did not discuss specific
transactions with Ms. Atighehchi does not establish that he could not have
discussed 110 Sunshine’s method of tracking these expenses. (Id. pp.
41:20-42:13; 76:1-3; 83:25-84:1.) Plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate that
Mr. Benkert’s opinion on this matter must be excluded, even if its evidentiary
basis renders it weak evidence of Defendants’ actual financial practices.  
 
Conclusion
 
            For the
reasons stated above, the Court finds that Mr. Benkert’s opinions must be
excluded as to the adequacy of DRNK’s capitalization, the nature of cash
balance adjustments, and as to the analysis of the alter ego factors.
 
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 9
 
            Defendants
move to exclude anticipated testimony from Plaintiffs’ accounting expert,
Richard Holstrom. Specifically, Defendants seek to exclude Mr. Holstrom from
testifying at trial as to (i) rent payments by DRNK for the benefit of 110
Sunshine; (ii) litigation settlements paid by one defendant for the benefit of
another defendant; (iii) the assignment of money to DRNK for money that was
paid by the plaintiff to 110 Sunshine; and (iv) employees that were common to
both DRNK and 110 Sunshine.
 
Legal Standard
 
            The general
rule for expert testimony is that such testimony at trial may not exceed the
scope of deposition testimony. (Jones v. Moore (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th
557, 564.) California expert discovery “envisions timely disclosure of the
general substance of an expert’s expected testimony so that the parties may
properly prepare for trial. Allowing new and unexpected testimony for the first
time at trial . . . is inconsistent with this purpose.” (Bonds v. Roy
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 148.) Expert testimony must be excluded when a party
unreasonably fails to produce reports of writings of an expert witness or make
that witness available for deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.300.) The
”operative inquiry” is whether the party’s conduct compromises the purpose of
the discovery statutes. (Staub v. Kiley (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1427,
1447.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants’
motion is entirely anticipatory, based on statements by Plaintiffs’ counsel in
telephone conversations and email correspondence which led Defendants’ counsel
to believe that Mr. Holstrom’s testimony would be offered as “rebuttal”
testimony to statements by Sherry Moaven and Fariba Atighehchi.  As part of the second expert exchange between
the parties, Plaintiffs designated Mr. Holstrom as a proposed expert, who would
offer testimony, inter alia:
 
with regard to the financial and
business relationship between DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC and 110
Sunshine Smoothies, Inc. as well as the other Defendants and Cross-Complainants
Thomas Nariman, Gholam Hossein Atghehchi, and Fariba Atighehchi. These analyses
and opinions will include, but are not limited to, amounts paid to DRNK by 110
Sunshine, amounts paid to 110 Sunshine by DRNK; rent payments by DRNK for the
benefit of 110 Sunshine; litigation settlements paid by one defendant for the
benefit of another defendant; the assignment of money to DRNK for money that
was paid by the plaintiff to 110 Sunshine; employees that were common to both
DRNK and 110 Sunshine; and, other relevant transactions that show commingling
of funds among these Defendants and Cross-Complainants.
 
(Declaration of Brent Kramer ISO Mot. Exh. 4 [Plaintiffs’
Expert Designation] ¶ 1(d).) At Mr. Holstrom’s deposition on December 6, 2023,
he testified that he had not prepared any analysis concerning (i) rent payments
by DRNK for the benefit of 110 Sunshine; (ii) litigation settlements paid by
one defendant for the benefit of another defendant; (iii) the assignment of
money to DRNK for money that was paid by the plaintiff to 110 Sunshine; or (iv)
employees that were common to both DRNK and 110 Sunshine. (Declaration of
Katherine J. Kunberger ISO Mot. Exh. B. pp.56:25-57:21.) Mr. Holstrom further
testified that this decision was made in consultation with Plaintiffs’ counsel.
(Id. pp.169:8-170:9.) In subsequent email correspondence, Plaintiffs’
counsel expressed his intention to have Mr. Holstrom testify as to these
matters, except as to employees common to both entities, because Plaintiffs
contend that Defendants put those matters at issue through their testimony at
trial. (See Kunberger Decl. Exh. D.) However, Plaintiffs’ counsel also
expressly stated that such testimony would be limited only to identifying
QuickBooks entries which purport on their face to be the type of item
contemplated by subpart (d); i.e., identifying “rent payments,” “settlements,”
and “assignment of money.” 
 
            Defendants
seek to exclude trial testimony and documents pertaining to these matters from
Mr. Holstrom as undisclosed expert testimony and writings which were originally
retracted. Defendants claim that Plaintiffs are attempting to ambush Defendants
with “rebuttal” expert testimony. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Mr. Holstrom’s testimony will be limited
merely to testimony concerning the authenticity of documents which have been
offered as proposed trial exhibits and to read portions of those documents into
open court. Specifically, Plaintiffs seek to offer testimony pertaining to
Trial Exhibits 624 through 632, identified in the Joint Exhibit list as offered
jointly without objection, in which Mr. Holstrom will testify only as to the
origin of these documents and the descriptions on the labels attached to
certain transactions. (See Joint Trial Exhibit List.) Plaintiffs categorically state
that Mr. Holstrom will not offer any opinion on the accuracy of these records. The
remainder of Mr. Holstrom’s testimony will concern the authentication of
Exhibits 1008 through 1010, which summarize DRNK’s ledgers and financial
statements (Exhibits 630-32) to show amounts owed to DRNK from 110SS,
transactions between DRNK and 110SS, and Royalties from 110SS, respectively.
(See Declaration of R. Michael Ghilezan ISO Opp. Exhs. 1008-1010.) 
 
            In reply, Defendants
state that the parties have stipulated to the admission of these exhibits and
the accuracy of the calculations, but request that the Court take this motion
under advisement to be decided in the event Mr. Holstrom takes the stand. The
Court is not inclined to rule on issues which have not become ripe, especially
where Plaintiffs have averred that they do not intend to have Mr. Holstrom
testify beyond the scope of what has been described in the stipulation. 
 
            Defendants
also request that the Court restrict the testimony of Mr. Holstrom on the same
basis that it has restricted the testimony of Mr. Benkert. As Plaintiffs’
cross-motion concerns specifics of Mr. Benkert’s opinions and their factual
support, Defendants’ request is inapposite to the distinct issues raised about
Mr. Holstrom’s anticipated testimony.  
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, the Court declines to limit the testimony of Richard
Holstrom in the manner sought by Defendants. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion in Limine No. 8 is GRANTED IN PART as to Mr. Benkert’s opinions regarding
the adequacy of DRNK’s capitalization, the nature of cash balance adjustments,
and as to the analysis of the alter ego factors.
 
            Defendants’
Motion in Limine No. 9 is DENIED. This ruling is without prejudice to a
subsequent motion in the event Mr. Holstrom is called to testify at trial.   
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: February 22, 2024                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 