 Case Number:  23AHCV01885    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  X #20 - Vangelisti, et al. v. City of Pasadena, et al.MOTION  TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSOn October 28, 2024, Plaintiff Paul Vangelisti filed a  Motion to Compel Defendant DM Contracting Inc. to provide responses to  Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Inspection  Demands.  Plaintiff also seeks monetary  sanctions against Defendant for the costs incurred in bringing this motion.  Defendant opposes, asserting that the motion  is moot because responses were served on November 7, 2024, and further argues  that Plaintiff’s motion was filed needlessly and in bad faith.  Defendant requests sanctions against  Plaintiff’s counsel for unnecessary litigation.BackgroundOn  November 28, 2022, Plaintiff fell on a sidewalk owned by the City of Pasadena.  DM Contracting Inc. contracted  with the City of Pasadena (“City”) and completed sidewalk repairs sometime  between 2018 and 2019.  The City accepted  that work, and the subject sidewalk may have uplifted again because of tree  root growth.  Plaintiff and his wife  settled with the defendant city and the defendant residential owner fronting  the subject sidewalk.  DM Contracting  argues this is a frivolous lawsuit aimed at pressuring money from a non-fault  party.Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED as moot.  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is  DENIED.  Defendant’s request for monetary  sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel is MootA propounding party may move for an order compelling  responses to interrogatories at any time “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories  are directed fails to serve a timely response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  “The party to whom the interrogatories are  directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under  Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including  one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)Within 30 days after service of a demand for inspection,  testing, or sampling, the party to whom the demand is made shall serve the  original of the response to them on the propounding party.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).)  In responding to a request for production of  documents, the responding party shall provide a statement of compliance; a  statement of inability to comply in part or in whole; or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210.)On July 22, 2024, Plaintiff served discovery requests – form  interrogatories, special interrogatories, and inspection demands – on Defendant.   (Steiner Decl., ¶ 6.)  Responses were due no later than August 26,  2024.  (Motion, p. 1.)  At the time, Defendant was represented by  prior counsel, Matthew Tesfai, who failed to provide responses.  (Steiner Decl., ¶ 7.)  On September 6, 2024, Defendant substituted  new counsel, Daniel Ip of Litchfield Cavo, LLP. (Steiner Decl., ¶ 8.)  Defendant’s new counsel requested an  extension to respond to the discovery, citing delays in receiving the case file  from prior counsel.  Plaintiff granted an  extension until October 4, 2024.  (Steiner  Decl., 10.)  However, Defendant did not  serve responses by that date.  On October  7, 2024, Defendant’s counsel requested an additional extension until November  7, 2024, to serve responses.  (Ip Decl., ¶  7.)  Plaintiff did not confirm or reject  this request and filed the instant motion to compel on October 28, 2024.  (Ip Decl., ¶ 8.)Defendant ultimately served verified, objection-free  responses on November 7, 2024, one day before Plaintiff’s counsel sent a  meet-and-confer letter on November 8, 2024.  (See Ip Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)  Despite receiving the responses, Plaintiff  refused to take the motion off calendar (Ip Decl., ¶ 10-11), asserting that the  responses were untimely and insufficient.  (Reply, p. 1.)Plaintiff’s motion to compel is moot.  Defendant served verified, objection-free  responses to the discovery requests on November 7, 2024, prior to the hearing  on this motion, albeit after its filing.  While Plaintiff argues that the responses were  untimely, the filing of a motion to compel does not automatically entitle the  moving party to relief if the requested discovery has already been provided.The Mutual Requests for Sanctions are DeniedThe Court shall impose monetary sanctions against any party  or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless it  finds that the party acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (h).)Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant for the  costs incurred in bringing this motion.  The  Court notes that Defendant’s delay in responding to discovery was caused, in  part, by the substitution of counsel and the transfer of the case file.  Defendant’s new counsel requested extensions  and ultimately served responses within a reasonable time.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.Defendant also requests sanctions against Plaintiff’s  counsel for filing a motion to compel in bad faith.  Defendant’s request is denied.Moving Party is to give notice.