 Case Number:  23AHCV02835    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  X #27 - Hernandez v. Young, et al.MOTION  TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGESDefendants move to strike portions of  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint which refer to punitive damages.Tentative RulingDefendants’ Motion to Strike the identified portions of  Plaintiffs’ FAC is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs  are granted 10 days leave to amend.On its own motion, the trial is advanced to this date and  continued to Thursday, August 12, 2025 at 9:00 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra  Courthouse.The Final Status Conference is also advanced to this date  and continued to Tuesday, July 31, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. in Department X of the  Alhambra Courthouse.The Court sets an Order to Show Cause re: Amended Complaint  and Responsive Pleading for March 26, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the  Alhambra Courthouse.Legal Authority and  AnalysisOn a motion to  strike made under Code of Civil Procedure section 435, the Court may strike out  any irrelevant, false, or improper matter in a pleading, on terms deemed  proper.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd.  (a).)  A motion to strike may be used to  remove a claim for punitive damages that is not adequately supported by the  facts alleged in the complaint.  (Cryolife,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1145; Kaiser Foundation  Health Plan, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 696.)In ruling on a  motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading  subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and  assume their truth.”  (Clauson v.  Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a prima facie claim for punitive  damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages  statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College  Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must  allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  As set forth in the Civil Code, (1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard  of the rights or safety of others.  (2)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and  unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional  misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the  defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving  a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.  (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.) Further, a plaintiff  must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant  acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.   To wit, there is a heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for  punitive damages.  (See Smith v.  Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When nondeliberate injury is charged,  allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton,  reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary damages; such  allegations do not charge malice.”  (G.  D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)  Punitive damages are not ordinarily  recoverable in actions for negligence.  (Ibid.)   Punitive damages are only recoverable if  the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice, as defined by Civil  Code section 3294(c).Here,  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient  facts to support their claims for punitive damages, asserting that the  allegations are conclusory and lack the requisite showing of malice,  oppression, or fraud.  Plaintiffs oppose  the motion, contending that their FAC sufficiently pleads facts to support  punitive damages and, alternatively, request leave to amend should the Court  find deficiencies in their pleading.The FAC alleges Defendants failed to maintain the subject  property in a habitable condition, citing numerous health and safety  violations, including severe rodent and cockroach infestations, lack of  plumbing/electrical facilities in good working order, and foundation/structural  damage.  (FAC, ¶ 14.)  It further alleges Defendants acted with a  willful and conscious disregard for their rights and safety (FAC, ¶ 36),  characterizing Defendants’ actions or inactions under the nuisance claim as  intentional and unreasonable (FAC, ¶ 73).The motion argues that Plaintiffs’ allegations are  conclusory and fail to demonstrate the requisite intent to harm or conscious  disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights.  Defendants  contend that the FAC merely describes negligent maintenance of the property, so  the allegations do not rise to the level of malice required for punitive  damages.  Defendants further assert that because  Plaintiffs had two opportunities to allege sufficient facts and failed, the  motion should be granted with prejudice.In opposition, Plaintiffs counter that their FAC  sufficiently alleges facts to support punitive damages, pointing to the  egregious nature of the uninhabitable conditions and Defendants’ prolonged  failure to address them despite repeated complaints.  Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ conduct  constitutes despicable behavior carried out with a willful and conscious  disregard for their rights.  Plaintiffs refer  to cases where punitive damages were awarded in breach of warranty of habitability  cases where malice or oppression were shown.The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ allegations are  insufficient to support punitive damages.  The FAC lacks specific factual allegations  demonstrating that Defendants acted with the intent to harm Plaintiffs or with  a conscious disregard for their rights.  The  conditions described in the FAC support uninhabitability, but they primarily  suggest negligence rather than the malice, oppression, or fraud required under  Civil Code section 3294.For the foregoing reasons, the Court grants Defendants’  Motion to Strike the portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC in the entirety.Moving Party is to give notice.