 Case Number:  24NNCV02849    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  X #28
– Herrera v. DavtyanMOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSELCounsel for Plaintiff moves to be
relieved as counsel, on the grounds that there has been a breakdown in
communication.Tentative RulingAttorney Oscar Richard Swinton’s motion to be relieved as
counsel is continued to February 19, 2025.  Swinton must comply with Rule 3.1362(d) and provide
proof of service upon Defendant’s counsel regarding the notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order consistent with the notice
requirements for bringing the instant motion.Legal Authority and Analysis“The question of granting or denying an application of an
attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one
which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind
whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The Court should also consider whether the
attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the
client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v.
Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the
following be submitted in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2): (1) a notice of motion
and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).)Counsel for Plaintiff filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) and California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1362.  A declaration on
Judicial Council Form MC-052 accompanies the motion, as required by California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, stating: 
“Unfortunately, there is
irreparable breakdown of communication with Plaintiff.  Lamentably, Plaintiff has on various occasions
has failed to listen, cooperate or even to follow directions.  Thus, this lack of cooperation significantly
hinders my ability to effectively represent Plaintiff.  Therefore, I am respectfully requesting to be
Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff.” 
Under California Rules of Professional Conduct, 1.16(b)(4),
“a lawyer may withdraw from representing a client if: . . . the client . . .
renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the
representation effectively[.]”  Counsel
Swinton’s declaration regarding the breakdown of communication and Plaintiff’s
lack of cooperation meets this standard.However, Swinton only partially complies with the mandatory
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  He has submitted the required notice on Form
MC-051, declaration on Form MC-052, proposed order on Form MC-053, and service
on Plaintiff, but he has not shown service “on all other parties who have
appeared in the case.”For this reason, the motion to be relieved as counsel is continued
to allow Counsel Swinton to file supplemental documents which establish proof
of service on Defendant’s counsel. Moving Party is to give notice.