 Case Number:  23SMCV04158    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail is GRANTED.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail shall serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $435.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail and defense counsel to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee is GRANTED.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee shall serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $435.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee and defense counsel to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab to give notice. REASONINGIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab (“Plaintiff”) served Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ahmedshah Patail and Shams Virjee with his Form Interrogatories, Set One, on March 28, 2024. (Mots., Pomerantz Decls. ¶ 2.) To date, no responses have been received. (Mots., Pomerantz Decls. ¶ 3.) Defense counsel John Bussman states that he was not served with the discovery requests, but he concedes that the other attorneys in his office were served with the discovery, there is no requirement that an attorney serve all attorneys who may be working on the case, and Mr. Bussman’s name is not listed on the case caption as a handling attorney. (See Opp’n, Bussman Decl. ¶ 5.) Further, counsel does not state that responses have been served since receiving the present motion, and there is no statutory requirement that Plaintiff’s counsel have met and conferred with defense counsel before filing the present motion.Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail shall serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (20) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee is also GRANTED. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee shall serve code-compliant responses to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)Plaintiff requests $475.00 in monetary sanctions for each motion. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $435.00 for each motion, representing one hour spent preparing the motion and reply and one quarter-hour spent appearing at the hearing on the motion, totaling one-and-a-half hours at the reduced rate of $300 per hour, as well as one filing fee of $60. Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $435.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ahmedshah Patail and defense counsel to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (20) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee is also GRANTED in the reduced amount of $435.00, payable by Defendant/Cross-Complainant Shams Virjee and defense counsel to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mike Khattab and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (20) days of entry of this order.