 Case Number:  23STCP03627    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
22ND/INDIAN SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CMS EQUITY, INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCP03627
  Hearing Date:  June 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to amend judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff
22nd/Indian School Development LLC filed an application for entry of judgment
on sister-state judgment. The case arises from an underlying judgment in
Arizona in favor of Plaintiff against Defendant CMS Equity, Inc. Plaintiff’s
application was granted on October 3, 2023. Therefore, Plaintiff now has a
judgment against Defendant in Los Angeles Superior Court. 
            On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to amend the judgment to add judgment debtors based on alter
ego. Plaintiff seeks to add Christopher Smith, sole owner and member of CMS
Equity, as well as ten other corporate entities of which Smith or CMS is the
sole owner or member. On May 2, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application to continue the hearing on the motion, setting a new date of June
3, 2024. Defendant and Smith filed their opposition to the motion on May 21,
2024. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) 
“Pursuant to section 187, a trial court
has jurisdiction to modify a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.” (McClellan
v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Ass'n (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.) “Judgments
are often amended to add additional judgment debtors on the grounds that a
person or entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor.” (NEC
Electronics Inc. v. Hurt (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 772, 778.) “This is an
equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the
judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the
real defendant.” (Ibid.) “Such a procedure is an appropriate and
complete method by which to bind new . . . defendants where it can be
demonstrated that in their capacity as alter ego of the [judgment debtor] they
in fact had control of the previous litigation, and thus were virtually
represented in the lawsuit.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
“The alter ego doctrine arises when a
plaintiff comes into court claiming that an opposing party is using the
corporate form unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff's interests . . . In
certain circumstances the court will disregard the corporate entity and will
hold the individual shareholders liable for the actions of the corporation.” (Greenspan
v. LADT LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 510.) Establishing alter ego “generally
requires the proponent to demonstrate two elements: (1) a unity of interest and
ownership such that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
individual do not exist; and (2) an inequitable result if the corporate
identity is not disregarded.” (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 189.) “In addition, even if all the formal elements necessary
to establish alter ego liability are not present, an unnamed party may be
included as a judgment debtor if ‘the equities overwhelmingly favor’ the amendment
and it is necessary to prevent an injustice.” (Carolina Casualty Ins. Co. v.
L.M. Ross Law Group, LLP (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188-1189.) 
                        1.
Unity of Interest
Courts have found the following factors
determinative in applying alter ego: that the individual defendant dominated
and controlled the entity defendant; that a unity of interest and ownership
existed between the individual defendant and entity defendant; that the entity
defendant was a mere shell and conduit for the individual defendant’s affairs;
that the entity defendant was inadequately capitalized; that the entity
defendant failed to abide by corporate formalities; and that the individual
defendant used the entity defendant’s assets as her own. (See Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36.) 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Smith wholly
owns CMS Equity (Plntf.’s RJN, Ex. E) and has used CMS Equity’s funds for
personal expenses (Kintzele Decl., Ex. B). Plaintiff further argues that either
Smith or CMS solely owns or manages the other entities. (Plntf.’s RJN, Ex.
F-M.) According to Plaintiff, Smith freely transfers assets between CMS and his
other entities without any of the associated formalities. (See Kintzele Decl.,
Ex. B.) 
However, the evidence consists of bank
statements for only 6 of the 11 proposed defendants, and organizational filings
for only 8 out of 10 proposed entity defendants. Therefore, not all of the
proposed defendants are even addressed in the first instance. Furthermore, the
evidence that does exist does not show a unity of interest to justify
disregarding the corporate form. The tangential transfers indicated on the bank
statements do not prove any of the factors listed in Rutherford Holdings,
much less suggest that assets were freely transferred between the defendants to
avoid the judgment against CMS. The corporate filings do not show that Smith or
CMS control the proposed entities such that those entities’ interests were
“virtually represented” in the litigation. 

There is no evidence that Smith
disregarded corporate formalities or transferred funds for personal purposes.
Smith avers that he has followed all formalities and has not used CMS assets
for personal use. (Smith Decl. ¶ 3.) The proposed entities have either no
assets or negligible assets, and Smith and CMS are either not members or not
controlling members of such entities. (Id., ¶ 6.) This disproves
Plaintiff’s theory that Smith has used these entities to obscure CMS assets
from collection in the underlying judgment. In sum, Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate a unity of interest between CMS and the proposed defendants.     
            2.
Inequitable Result
Plaintiff argues that “Smith has shifted
and spread his assets among the Proposed Entities which do not have judgments
entered against them in an attempt to prevent Plaintiff from collecting on its
own judgment against CMS Equity, Inc.” (Mtn. 16:23-25.) Plaintiff further
argues that CMS’s insolvency renders direct collection against CMS unlikely.
(Mtn. 16:21-23.) 
However, as discussed above, the evidence
does not show that Smith has used the proposed entities to shield assets from
collection. There is also no evidence that CMS is insolvent and thus no
indication that Plaintiff would be prejudiced by being limited to collecting
against CMS. Smith unequivocally avers that CMS is not insolvent. (Smith Decl.
¶ 7.) Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to show that an inequitable result would
occur if the proposed defendants are treated as separate from CMS. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to amend judgment
is DENIED.   