 Case Number:  24STCV00914    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANNE HEITING,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THRYV, INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV00914
  Hearing Date:  June 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff Anne
Heiting filed this action against Defendant Thryv, Inc., asserting a single
cause of action for invasion of privacy in violation of Penal Code section 631.

            The complaint alleges that “Defendant
has engaged in deceptive practices by surreptitiously implanting code on its
website allowing for the unauthorized recording and creation of transcripts of
private conversations.” (Compl. ¶ 11.) Specifically, “Defendant has entered
into financial agreements with intercom.com (‘Intercom’) to embed code into
Defendant's website chat function. This code enables Intercom to covertly
intercept and monitor a website visitor's chat conversation in real-time,
without their knowledge or consent.” (Ibid.) The information gathered
from these chats allegedly include a user’s “IP address, geolocation, browsing
history, and search history.” (Id., ¶ 14.) The complaint alleges that
Defendant aided and abetted Intercom’s illegal conduct. (Id., ¶ 24
[citing Pen. Code, § 631(a)].) 
            On March 15, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed her opposition on May
20, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on May 24, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Murphy Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Liability Under the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA)  
            Penal Code section 631(a) proscribes
four types of conduct stemming from wiretapping: (1) where a person
intentionally taps or makes an unauthorized connection with any telephone wire,
line, cable, or instrument; (2) where a person willfully and without consent
reads, or attempts to learn, the contents of a communication in transit or
passing over any wire, line, or cable, or is being sent from or received at any
place within the state; (3) where a person uses, or attempts to use, any
information so obtained; and (4) where a person aids, agrees with, employs, or
conspires with any person to do any of the acts mentioned above. (Yoon v.
Lululemon United States (C.D.Cal. 2021) 549 F.Supp.3d 1073, 1080.) In this
case, Plaintiff relies on the fourth prong—aiding and abetting. (Compl. ¶ 24.)
Defendant does not challenge the aiding and abetting allegations. Thus, the
primary issue is whether Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged an underlying
violation by Intercom, addressed below.   
II.
Standing
            “Any person who has been injured by
a violation of this chapter may bring an action against the person who
committed the violation.” (Pen. Code, § 637.2(a).) Defendant argues that
Plaintiff lacks standing because she never used the chat feature. This is a
factual issue not suitable for demurrer. It cannot be determined as a matter of
law from the pleadings alone that Plaintiff did not use the chat feature.  
            The complaint contains the following
allegations which support a reasonable inference that Plaintiff did use the
chat feature: “The chats that users like Plaintiff believe are taking
place on Defendant’s website are really taking place on Intercom” (Compl. ¶
12); “Defendant did not inform Plaintiff that Defendant was secretly
wiretapping or recording her communications or aiding, abetting, and
paying third parties to eavesdrop on her” (id., ¶ 22); “Defendant
did not obtain Plaintiff’s express or implied consent to wiretap or allow third
parties to eavesdrop on visitor conversations, nor did Plaintiff know at the
time of the conversations that Defendant was secretly wiretapping her
and allowing third parties to eavesdrop on her” (id., ¶ 23). 
The allegations suggest that Plaintiff is
one of the chat users and that Defendants recorded or eavesdropped on her
conversations. Given the nature of the allegations, the recorded conversations
presumably occurred on the chat feature. The complaint suggests no other place
where the alleged wiretapping could occur. Because all reasonable inferences
must be drawn in Plaintiff’s favor, the complaint sufficiently alleges that
Plaintiff used the chat feature on Defendant’s website. Therefore, Plaintiff
has adequately alleged her standing. 
III.
Party Exception
            CIPA contains “an exemption from
liability for a person who is a ‘party’ to the communication.” (Davis v.
Facebook, Inc. (In re Facebook Inc. Internet Tracking Litig.) (9th Cir.
2020) 956 F.3d 589, 607.) Penal Code section 631 applies “only
to eavesdropping by a third party and not to recording by a participant to
a conversation.” (Ibid.) “California courts have been instructed to
analyze whether the technology (or actor) behaves more akin to a tape recorder
utilized by the party to the conversation or as an eavesdropper ‘press[ing] up
against a door to listen to a conversation.’” (Licea v. Am. Eagle
Outfitters, Inc. (C.D.Cal. 2023) 659 F.Supp.3d 1072, 1082.) In the software
context, “[w]hen a party captures and stores data, courts have found that they
operate like an extension of the defendant (i.e. a tape recorder).” (Id.
at p. 1083.) Thus, the party exception applies where “[t]he alleged use of the
data by the third party . . . does not appear to be independent,” and “[t]he
pleadings . . . nowhere suggest that the third party has the ability to use the
information independently.” (Ibid.)  

Defendant argues that because there are no
allegations that Intercom uses or is capable of using the gathered information
for its own purposes, Intercom acts merely as an extension of Defendant, akin
to a tape recorder. If Intercom falls under the party exception and is not
liable for wiretapping, there would be nothing for Defendant to aid and abet. 
However, this is a factual issue unsuited
for demurrer. The complaint alleges that Intercom not only supplies the
gathered information back to Defendant, but also uses the data for its own
business purposes. (Compl. ¶ 14.) Intercom’s policy allegedly permits it to “share
and sell personal information with third parties, such as Intercom Group
Companies, service providers,
consultants, advertising partners and professional advisors.” (Id., ¶
16.)[1]
The data collection allegedly “enables the creation of detailed profiles about
individuals, allowing the delivery of targeted advertisements . . . across
multiple platforms.” (Id., ¶ 18.) User data is allegedly “shared with a
wide range of entities.” (Id., ¶ 21.) 
This constitutes a use beyond simply
providing the data back to Defendant. Specifically, Intercom allegedly sells
the data to a variety of third parties so that those third parties can form
targeted advertisements. Presumably, Intercom does this for its own profit, not
for Defendant’s benefit. The fact that Intercom also provides the information
back to Defendant does not negate Intercom’s own use of the data. Allegations
that “the third party captured data and then used the data for its own benefit
by reselling the aggregated data” are sufficient to overcome the party
exception. (See Licea, supra, 659 F.Supp.3d at p. 1083.) The allegations
are not conclusory; they specify that Intercom can sell data to particular
third parties beyond Defendant—such as service providers, consultants, advertising
partners and professional advisors—for the purpose of enabling those third
parties to deliver targeted advertisements.  
For pleading purposes, the allegations
support a reasonable inference that Intercom did not merely act as an extension
of Defendant or provide collected data back to Defendant, but also used the
data for its own purposes. Plaintiff is not required to allege specific facts
demonstrating that the claim is plausible, as that is a federal pleading
standard inapplicable to this case. (See, e.g., Valenzuela v. Keurig
Green Mountain, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 674 F.Supp.3d 751.) California
employs a more liberal pleading standard which leaves such details for
discovery. (See Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 592, 608.) Therefore, the party exception does not bar the claim as
a matter of law at the pleading stage.     
IV.
Intercepting a Communication
            The second prong of Penal Code
section 631(a) disjunctively imposes liability for intercepting a communication
being sent to or from any place in the state, regardless of whether the
transmission involves a wire, line, or cable. (In re Google Assistant
Privacy Litig. (N.D.Cal. 2020) 457 F.Supp.3d 797, 826.) Thus, an internet
chat message falls under the statute. (See Garcia v. Yeti Coolers, LLC
(C.D.Cal. Sep. 5, 2023, No. 2:23-cv-02643-RGK-RAO) 2023 U.S.Dist.LEXIS 158968,
at *8-9 [“numerous courts within the Ninth Circuit have concluded that Clause
Two is rightfully applied to internet communications”].)
            Here, the complaint alleges that the
“code enables Intercom to covertly intercept and monitor a website visitor's
chat conversation in real-time, without their knowledge or consent.” (Compl. ¶
11.) The complaint details the code that allows Intercom to conduct this
interception. (Id., ¶¶ 12-13.) For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged the interception of a communication being sent from or
received in California. 
Defendant cites to federal cases applying
a stricter pleading standard to argue that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient
detail demonstrating an interception. (See Valenzuela v. Keurig Green
Mountain, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 674 F.Supp.3d 751; Valenzuela v. Super
Bright LEDs Inc. (C.D. Cal., Nov. 27, 2023, No. EDCV2301148JAKSPX) 2023 WL
8424472.) Again, that is not the pleading standard applicable here. Under
California law, Plaintiff has sufficiently raised an inference that Intercom
intercepted a communication. 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff has
admitted Intercom did not “intercept” any communications because Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he chats that users like Plaintiff believe are taking place on
Defendant’s website are really taking place on Intercom” or “with Intercom.”
(See Compl. ¶¶ 12, 14.) This is not an admission that Intercom did not intercept
anything. The allegation must be read in context, with all reasonable
inferences drawn in Plaintiff’s favor. This allegation could just as readily be
interpreted as confirming that Intercom intercepted the messages.  
Lastly, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has failed to allege a communication “in transit.” However, Penal Code section
631(a) is written in the disjunctive. It prohibits the unauthorized reading of
a communication “while the same is in transit or passing over any wire,
line, or cable, or is being sent from, or received at any place within
this state.” The alleged chat messages were “being sent from, or received at
any place within this state” regardless of whether they were in transit or
occurred over a wire, line, or cable. Defendant also cites no authority precluding
internet messages from being “in transit.” For pleading purposes, it may be
reasonably inferred that the online chat messages were in transit when Intercom
intercepted them, as they were allegedly collected “in real-time.” (See Compl.
¶ 11.)    
V.
Use of Unlawfully Obtained Communications
            The third prong of Penal Code
section 631(a) proscribes the use of any communication obtained through an act
proscribed by the other prongs. As discussed above, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged that Intercom intercepted a communication in violation of the second
prong. Plaintiff has also alleged that Intercom used the information by selling
it for profit. Therefore, Plaintiff has pled a violation of the third
prong.        
In sum, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
that Intercom violated at least one prong of Penal Code section 631(a) and that
Defendant aided and abetted this violation. Therefore, the invasion of privacy
claim is adequately pled. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.


