

Hearing Date:             April
12, 2024
Case Name:                Mullen
v. Moallem
Case No.:                    22STCV36942
Matter:                        Motion for Attorney Fees  
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Gayle Mullen


Responding
Party:      Defendants Tyler Moallem and Jonathan Redwood, Co-Administrators of
the Estate of Steven A. Mullen

 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion for Attorney Fees is granted in the reduced amount
of $29,050.   
 

 
            This
dispute arises out of a creditor’s claim filed by Plaintiff, Gayle Mullen,
(Plaintiff) in the probate estate matter of her ex-husband, Steven Mullen
(Decedent). 
 
On December 1, 2009, Plaintiff was
awarded a Judgment of Dissolution in the amount of $263,035 in child support
arrearages with prejudgment interest of $238,724.02 for a total judgment of
$501,759.04 (Support Judgment). On February 17, 2022, Decedent died, and, on
February 23, 2022, a Petition for Letters of Administration was filed in case
number 22STPB01715 (Probate Action). Defendants Tyler Moallem and Jonathan
Redwood (Defendants) were appointed administrators of Decedent’s estate. On
August 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed a creditor’s claim in the Probate Action,
claiming $495,289.13 was due on the Support Judgment. On September 28, 2022,
Defendants rejected Plaintiff’s creditor’s claim in full. 
 
The Complaint in this action contains
a single cause of action for a Rejected Creditor’s Claim pursuant to Probate Code section 9353, subdivision (a). 
 
            On July 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment. Defendants opposed the
motion. The Court granted the motion for summary judgment. 
 
            Plaintiff
now moves for attorney fees in the amount of $67,158,
which includes a 2.25 multiplier. Defendants oppose the motion. 
 
            The
motion is granted in a reduced amount. 
 
Discussion
 
Entitlement to Attorney Fees under Probate Code section 9354,
subdivision (c):
 
            Plaintiff
requests attorney fees in the amount of $67,158 pursuant
to Probate Code section 9354, subdivision (c). Plaintiff argues that
Defendants’ rejection of Plaintiff’s creditor’s claim and their maintaining a
defense in this action was unreasonable.
 
            Probate Code
section 9354 provides in pertinent part: “The prevailing party in the
action [on a creditor's claim] shall be awarded court costs and, if the court
determines that the prosecution or defense of the action against the prevailing
party was unreasonable, the prevailing party shall be awarded reasonable
litigation expenses, including attorney's fees.” (Prob. Code, § 9354, subd.
(c).)
 
            As
noted by Plaintiff, no published opinion defines “unreasonable” in the context
of Probate Code section 9354. However, this term is used in other cost-shifting
statutes that courts have construed. For example, in Smith v. Selma
Community Hospital (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1, the Court of Appeal construed
Business and Professions Code section 809.9, which authorizes an award of costs
and attorney fees to the prevailing party “if the other party's conduct in
bringing, defending, or litigating the suit was frivolous, unreasonable,
without foundation, or in bad faith.” For the term “unreasonable”, the Court of
Appeal applied the “any-reasonable-attorney standard,” which asks “whether any
reasonable attorney would have thought the claim tenable” based on “the facts
known to the plaintiff when [it] filed or maintained the action.” (Id.
at p. 32.)
 
            Thus,
the Court must determine whether Defendants’ “defense of the action against the
[Plaintiff] was unreasonable.” 
 
By way of
background, the relevant statutory scheme underlying Plaintiff’s claim is as
follows:
 
            With
an exception not relevant here, “after the death of the decedent all money
judgments against the decedent ... are payable in the course of administration
and are not enforceable against property in the estate of the decedent under
the Enforcement of Judgments Law.” (Prob. Code, § 9300, subd. (a).) However,
such judgments must be filed “in the same manner as other claims” against a
decedent’s estate. (Prob. Code, § 9300, subd. (b); Embree v. Embree
(2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 487, 493–494.) Thus, a creditor seeking payment of a
judgment from an estate must file a claim with the personal representative of
the decedent's estate within a certain period or be barred from enforcing their
claims. (Prob. Code, §§ 9100, 9150, subd. (d).) 
 
            Upon
the filing of a claim, the personal representative must allow or reject the
claim, in whole or in part. (Prob. Code, §§ 9250, subd. (a); 9255, subd. (a).)
When a personal representative rejects a claim, in whole or in part, a creditor
must “bring an action on the claim” or the rejected part of the claim within a
specified period or the claim will be barred. (Prob. Code, §§ 9255, subd. (b),
9353, subd. (a).)
 
            In
support of Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees, Plaintiff argues it was
unreasonable for Defendants to reject her creditor’s claim of $495,289.13 given
the documents she provided to Defendants attached to her creditor’s claim and
attached to her Complaint. These documents included the underlying Support Judgment,
documents related to a bankruptcy discharge of the Watts Charges Judgment, and all
credits that were applied to Plaintiff’s Support Judgment. (Compl., Ex. A
[Credit’s Claim, Exhibits 1-9].) 
 
The underlying Support
Judgment shows that, on December 1, 2009, Plaintiff was awarded a judgment in
the Orange County Superior Court case No. 95D00841, in the amount of
$501,759.04; in that same action, Decedent was awarded $300,574 for the fair
community property rental value of the home that Plaintiff resided in during
the dissolution (Watts Charges Judgment). The Bankruptcy documents showed a
discharge of the Watts Charges Judgment. (Compl., Ex. A [Credit’s Claim,
Exhibits 3-5.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendants contend that their defense of this action was not
unreasonable. First, Defendants argue that the creditor’s claim amount was
questionable given that Plaintiff calculated the judgment herself while self-represented.

 
This argument is
not well taken. Being self-represented is not a basis to render a filing or
claim inherently suspect. Moreover, the Creditor’s Claim provides all the
information Defendants would need to independently verify Plaintiff’s
calculations. 
 
Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff provided no information on the disposition of the Watts
Judgment until ten months after she filed the Creditor’s Claim. Specifically, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff failed to present evidence of existence of a settlement
agreement regarding the Watts Judgment until June 16, 2023 – which was ten
months after Plaintiff filed her Creditor's Claim and seven months after she
filed her Complaint in this action. 
 
This argument is
also not well taken. Plaintiff’s Creditor’s Claim documentation disclosed the
bankruptcy, including a case number; Plaintiff correctly argues that a reasonable
investigation into this bankruptcy would have established that the Decedent’s
Watts Charges Judgment against Plaintiff was settled/discharged in bankruptcy. (Compare
Compl., Ex. A [Credit’s Claim, Ex. 5 [Docket No. 85] with Summary
Judgment Motion, RJN Ex. J [June 13, 2011 Order Approving the Motion for
Compromise and Settlement Agreement].)
 
            Defendants’
arguments as to why their conduct in rejecting the Creditor’s Claim and their
defense of this action on the Creditor’s Claim was reasonable are unpersuasive.
None of Defendants’ arguments suggest a reasonable basis for rejecting Plaintiff’s
Creditor’s Claim based on the information that was provided and/or reasonably/publicly
accessible to Defendants. 


            Defendants’
opposition arguments are further undermined by their weak opposition to the
motion to summary judgment. Without repeating Defendants’ argument in that
opposition, the Court found the arguments largely lacked any legal authority in
support and were mostly based on speculation.  
 
            Plaintiff
has demonstrated that Defendants’ conduct was unreasonable under the
circumstances.[1]

 
The Amount of Attorney Fees
 
            “
‘[T]he fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the “lodestar,”
i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable
hourly rate. “California courts have consistently held that a computation of
time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.” ’ [Citation.] Generally,
the reasonable hourly rate used for the lodestar calculation ‘is that
prevailing in the community for similar work.’ [Citations.] After making the
lodestar calculation, the court may augment or diminish that amount based on a
number of factors specific to the case, including the novelty and difficulty of
the issues, the attorneys' skill in presenting the issues, the extent to which
the case precluded the attorneys from accepting other work, and the contingent
nature of the work. [Citation.]” (Center for Biological Diversity v. County
of San Bernardino (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 616.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
seeks attorney fees at an hourly rate of $350 an hour. (Altomare Decl., ¶¶
15-17, Exs. A-B.) Based on the
Court's familiarity with the current local market, and Plaintiff’s evidence of
the experience and skills of the various attorneys – the Court finds that
Plaintiff's requested rate per hour of $350 is reasonable.
 
Plaintiff also
submits evidence that counsel spent 80 hours in this matter and expects to spend
an additional 3 hours on this attorney fee motion, for a total of 83 hours.
(Altomare Decl., ¶¶ 18-20, Ex. C.) In opposition, Defendants do not challenge
reasonableness of Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rates or Plaintiff’s lodestar
calculation. 
 
            “In
challenging attorney fees as excessive because too many hours of work are
claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to point to the specific
items challenged, with a sufficient argument and citations to the evidence.
General arguments that fees claimed are excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do
not suffice. Failure to raise specific challenges in the trial court forfeits
the claim on appeal.” (Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
459, 488.) Here, Defendants do not even argue that the fees are unreasonable or
excessive. 
 
            Thus,
the Court finds the hours incurred in this litigation are not unreasonable. The
Court will award the lodestar amount of $29,050 in reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
            However,
Plaintiff’s request for multiplier is denied. 
 
            Plaintiff seeks a 2.25 lodestar multiplier
based on the risk of taking this case on contingency, the complexity of the litigation,
the delay in receiving payment, and the success of the litigation.            
 
            Relevant factors to
determine whether an enhancement is appropriate include (1) the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting
them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1122, 1132.)  
 
            Although this matter was
taken on contingency, none of the other factors support the application of a
multiplier. This action was not an unusually complex; there were no novel or
difficult questions presented. (Thayer v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2001)
92 Cal.App.4th 819, 834.) Further, the¿contingent risks were limited given Plaintiff’s
position that the rejection of the creditor’s claim was patently unreasonable,
which also informs on the level of skills required for Plaintiff’s attorney to
obtain the successful outcome. 
 
Moreover, while the Court did not reduce the
number of hours incurred in this litigation –the number of hours incurred by
Plaintiff’s counsel were high (although not excessive) given the minimal issues
and motion involved in this litigation. Thus, Plaintiff’s lodestar amount is
adequate compensation for this litigation and a lodestar multiplier is
unwarranted. 
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
request for a lodestar multiplier is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion for attorneys’ fees and costs is granted in part. In sum, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees in the total amount of $29,050.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to pay to Plaintiff’s counsel the sum of $29,050 for attorneys’
fees. 
 


