

 
             This is a defamation action. Plaintiff Hovnan
Derderian (Plaintiff) sued Defendant USA Armenian Life and its publisher,
Defendant Appo Jabarian (Jabarian) (jointly, Defendants) for allegedly false
statements made in Defendants’ publication regarding Plaintiff. 
 
            On February 7, 2024, Defendants
filed a Special Motion to Strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16.
 
            Thereafter,
Plaintiff moved for leave to conduct discovery on Defendant’s Special Motion to
Strike. Defendants oppose this motion. 
 
The Court grants discovery as to
Defendant Jabarian, and denies it as to the non-party declarants. 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to obtain
discovery in opposition to Defendants’ special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP). 
 
The filing
of an anti-SLAPP motion stays discovery in an action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (g).) However, on noticed motion and “for good cause shown,” the
court “may order that specified discovery be conducted notwithstanding” the
statutory discovery stay. (Ibid.) 
 
“ ‘[G]ood
cause’ ” in this context requires the plaintiff show that, “ ‘the specified
discovery is necessary for the plaintiff to oppose the [anti-SLAPP] motion and
is tailored to that end.’ ” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652,
692.) That is, “[i]f the plaintiff makes a timely and proper showing in
response to the motion to strike, that a defendant or witness possesses
evidence needed by plaintiff to establish a prima facie case, the plaintiff
must be given the reasonable opportunity to obtain that evidence through
discovery before the motion to strike is adjudicated.” (Layfayette
Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855,
868.) 
 
Plaintiff seeks discovery on the
issue of falsity and actual malice, noting that the special motion to strike
argues, among other things, that Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendants
acted with actual malice. (Special Motion to Strike, pp. 8-12.)
 
“Defamation
is the intentional publication of a statement of fact that is false,
unprivileged, and has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special
damage.” (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.) “If the
person defamed is a public figure, he must show, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the defamatory statement was made with actual malice.” (Mitchell
v. Twin Galaxies, LLC (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 207, 218.)
 
Plaintiff has made a prima facie
showing of defamation.
 
            Before the Court can even reach the
question of whether there is good cause to take limited discovery on the issue
of Defendants’ actual malice, this Court must first determine if Plaintiff has
demonstrated a prima facie case of falsity for the purposes of a defamation
claim. That is, Plaintiff must first establish that Defendants made a provably
false statement of fact about him.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s claims arise from multiple allegedly false statements made by
Defendants in
the October 14-20, 2022 issue of Armenian Life, purportedly defaming Plaintiff.
(Compl., ¶ 12.) 
 
            In John Doe 2
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300 (Doe), the court granted a writ of mandate and reversed
the trial court’s grant of discovery because the plaintiff had not established
prima facie case of defamation. Relying on the holding in Paterno v.
Superior Court (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1342, the Doe Court explained “a libel
plaintiff may not obtain special discovery under the anti-SLAPP statute without
first making a prima facie showing of the elements of libel for which the
material facts are available to the plaintiff.” (Id. at 1311–1312
[citing Paterno, at pp. 1349–1351 and The Garment Workers Center v.
Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1162 [“Even if it looks as if
the defendant's actual malice may be an issue in the case, if it appears from
the SLAPP motion there are significant issues as to falsity or publication—issues
which the plaintiff should be able to establish without discovery—the court
should consider resolving those issues before permitting what may otherwise
turn out to be unnecessary, expensive and burdensome discovery proceedings”].)
 
            Defendants
do not contest that Plaintiff has alleged that they made provably false
statements about him.
Plaintiff submits evidence that several factual statements made by Defendants
about him were false. (Derderian Decl., ¶¶ 4-12.)[1]
By not contesting this evidence, Defendants concede the point.  
 
Because
Plaintiff had provided sufficient evidence of a prima facie case for defamation,
the Court may turn to whether Plaintiff has shown good cause for discovery.
 
Plaintiff has shown good cause for
discovery of Defendant Jabarian with respect to Defendants’ alleged malice.
 
To prove
actual malice, a Plaintiff must show that statements were made with “‘knowledge
that [they were] false or with reckless disregard of whether [they were] false
or not.’ ” (Reader's Digest Assn. v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d
244, 256-257.) “ ‘There must be sufficient evidence to permit the conclusion
that the defendant in fact entertained serious doubts as to the truth,’ ” and
the evidence must be clear and convincing. (Id. at pp. 252, 256; see Copp
v. Paxton (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 829, 846 [“burden of proof by clear and
convincing evidence ‘requires a finding of high probability’; must ‘leave no
substantial doubt’ ”].)
 
“Actual malice “ ‘is not measured by
whether a reasonably prudent man would have published, or would have
investigated before publishing. There must be sufficient evidence to permit the
conclusion that the defendant in fact entertained serious doubts as to the
truth of his publication.” (Christian Research Institute v.
Alnor (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 71, 90.) 
 
“[A]ctual
malice can be proved by circumstantial evidence.” (Reader’s Digest, supra,
37 Cal.3d at p. 257.) Considerations such as “anger and hostility toward the
plaintiff,” “reliance upon sources known to be unreliable [citations] or known
to be biased against the plaintiff,” and “failure to investigate” may, “in an
appropriate case, indicate that the publisher himself had serious doubts regarding
the truth of his publication.” (Id. at p. 258.) Such evidence is
relevant “to the extent that it reflects on the subjective attitude of the
publisher,” and failure to investigate, without more, generally is
insufficient. (Ibid.)
 
            Section
425.16, subdivision (g) allows the court to permit specified discovery “for
good cause shown” on noticed motion. “Decisions that have considered what
constitutes such a showing of good cause have described it as a showing ‘that a
defendant or witness possesses evidence needed by plaintiff to establish a
prima facie case.’” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 568, 593 [quoting Lafayette Morehouse, supra, 37 Cal.App.4th
at p. 868].) The showing should include some explanation of “what additional
facts [plaintiff] expects to uncover ....” (Sipple, supra, 71
Cal.App.4th at p. 247; see also Nicosia v. De Rooy (N.D.Cal. 1999) 72
F.Supp.2d 1093, 1111.)


            First,
Plaintiff seeks discovery written discovery and the deposition of Defendant Jabarian.
Specifically, Plaintiff seeks documents and a deposition to determine the
factual basis that Defendant Jabarian had to make several statements regarding Plaintiff.

 
Plaintiff
seeks discovery from Defendant Jabarian on the following topics: (1.) whether Jabarian was aware of publicly available and
widely known evidence refuting the veracity of the statements he made, (2.) what
investigation he performed before making the statements, (3.) how reliable the
information from his sources was, and (4.) what indicia of unreliability
existed at the time he made the defamatory statements. (Mot., 3:17-21.) Plaintiff
also seeks to identify the “numerous members of the Church” with whom Jabarian
claims he spoke “over the years” as well as the substance of those discussions
which purportedly support his statement that the Plaintiff has “complete
control over the Western Diocese and nothing important is done in the Diocese
without his approval.” (Mot., 4:5-8.)[2]
 
            In arguing
that there is no good cause for this discovery, Defendants rely on the holding
in Harte-Hanks
Communications, Inc. v. Connaughton (1989) 491 U.S. 657, where the U.S. Supreme
Court held that the failure of a defendant to investigate before publishing,
and any resulting ignorance of facts he could have uncovered through
investigation, do not establish actual malice. “[F]ailure to investigate before
publishing, even when a reasonably prudent person would have done so, is not
sufficient to establish reckless disregard.” (Id. at p. 688.) 
 
            When a case
involves the republication of a third party’s defamatory falsehoods, 
“ ‘failure to investigate before publishing,
even when a reasonably prudent person would have done so, is not sufficient.’ ”
(Khawar v. Globe Intern., Inc. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 254, 275–276.) Instead,
there must be some showing of “purposeful avoidance of the truth” or a party’s inaction
“was a product of a deliberate decision not to acquire knowledge of facts that
might confirm the probable falsity of [the] charges.” (Harte–Hanks, at
p. 692; Antonovich v. Superior Court (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1041, 1048;
see also Rosenaur v. Scherer (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 260, 277.)
            
            There
is good cause to allow discovery from Defendant Jabarian on the issue of actual
malice because he is the primary source of such evidence. It is well
established that libel defendants “will generally be the principal, if not the
only, source of evidence” as to whether they “knew the statement published was
false,” or published it “in reckless disregard of whether the matter was false
and defamatory.” (Lafayette Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing Co.
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855, 868.) Plaintiff’s discovery request of Jabarian
seeks such direct evidence of actual malice. 
 
Defendants’ reliance
on Harte-Hanks Communications misses the mark. The insufficiency of lack
of investigation alone to establish malice does not address the issue here. That
case does not bar discovery of the extent of investigation Defendants undertook
to verify the statements published about Plaintiff.  For example, discovery may reveal that Defendant
conducted a thorough investigation that revealed that the statements made about
Plaintiff were false.  Such discovery is
certainly relevant to showing actual malice. 
 
The Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion to seek discovery from Defendant Jabarian, including
taking his deposition on the topics requested.
 
Plaintiff has not shown good cause
for discovery from three non-party declarants.
 
            Additionally, Plaintiff seeks to
take the deposition of three non-party declarants – Vosgan Mekhitarian, Petros
Bagramyan, and Kevork Hallajian – who submitted declarations in support of the
motion to strike and who made statements upon which Defendants
published the allegedly false statements. The Court notes that all of the declaration
are based primarily on hearsay statements, some decades old.
 
            But
for present purposes it does not matter that their statements would never be
allowed in a court of law. The veracity of their statements is only tangentially
related to showing whether Defendant Jabarian had actual malice in making the
allegedly false statements. That is, what is relevant is what Defendant
Jabarian was told and what he did to verify the accounts – information that can
be obtained directly from Defendant Jabarian. 
 
            Plaintiff argues that discovery from
the declarants is justified as it will provide circumstantial evidence of
actual malice. However, it is unclear what specific facts Plaintiff expects to
obtain from these declarants that will shed light on Defendants’ malicious
intent. Instead, at
least part of Plaintiff’s reason for obtaining discovery from these three is to
test and negate the declarations. (Mot., 4:15-5:23.) While such discovery may
be appropriate in the context of general civil discovery (see Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2017.010), this purpose cannot be a basis for discovery pertaining to an anti-SLAPP
motion. (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568,
593 [citing Sipple v. Foundation For Nat. Progress (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
226, 247].)
 
            The
Court denies the motion under section 425.16, subdivision (g) to obtain
discovery from the three non-party declarants. 
This ruling does not foreclose their depositions if the case proceeds
further.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to conduct discovery to oppose the Anti-SLAPP motion is granted as to
Defendant Jabarian, and otherwise denied.
 
At the hearing the Court will
discuss with counsel the schedule for discovery and adjustments to the hearing
on the motion to strike.


