  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  61  
Defendants
Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, Desiree Thomas, and Memorial Health
Services Motion for Protective Order regarding Deposition of Ikenna Mmeje is GRANTED,
and the scope of Mmeje’s deposition is limited to the hernia pilot program, the
proctoring issue, Plaintiff’s termination, discrimination, harassment, or
retaliation faced by Plaintiff, and conversations with or about Plaintiff.
Plaintiff is also directed to meet and confer with Defendants to select an
alternative date of deposition that works for Plaintiff, Mmeje, and his
counsel.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1.)
 
Additionally, “[b]efore, during,
or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc. 2025.420, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order
that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person
or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or
undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) 
Defendant Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Desiree Thomas, and Memorial Health Services (Defendants) move
for an order either quashing the deposition subpoena issued to LBMMC’s former
Chief Operating Officer Ikenna Mmeje (Mmeje) or else limiting its scope to
particular matters and requiring that it take place on a date when Mmeje is
available. (Motion at p. 13.) 
Defendants claim that a subpoena
was served on Mmeje on September 13, 2023, noticing his deposition to take
place on September 28, 2023. (Mmeje Decl. ¶ 3.) Mmeje was unavailable on that
date, and provided other dates to Plaintiff as alternatives, seeking
Plaintiff’s feedback. (Mmeje Decl. ¶ 3; Mino Decl. Exh. I.) Defendants also
told Plaintiff that Mmeje was a former apex employee and that Plaintiff
therefore had to satisfy a burden that Mmeje had access to relevant evidence
that could not elsewhere be obtained before seeking his deposition. (Mino Decl.
Exh. 1.) When Plaintiff responded in an email dated September 15, 2023, that
Mmeje had knowledge concerning “the proctoring issue,” the “pilot study of
robotic inguinal hernia repair,” and direct conversations with and about
Plaintiff and his underlying complaints, (Mino Decl. Exh. 1.) Defendants on
September 19 offered dates of availability for Mmeje, and further offered to
withdraw any objection based on the apex-employee doctrine if Plaintiff agreed
to limit the scope of his deposition to the matters of relevance that he had
already described. (Mino Decl. Exh. 1.) Plaintiff declined to agree to any
change in date or limitation in the scope of the deposition. (Ibid.) The
present motion was filed the day before the deposition was to take place.
Defendants invoke the apex-employee doctrine, which
was set out in the case Liberty
Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282. In that case,
a plaintiff sued a company and its CEO for various torts and attempted to
depose the CEO. (Id. at pp. 1285–86.)
But the only connections that the plaintiff could establish between the CEO and
the action were plaintiff’s attempts to forward emails explaining his claims to
the CEO, but which the CEO had never seen. (Id.
at p. 1286.) The CEO thus declared that he lacked any relevant knowledge
regarding the action. (Id. at p.
1285–86.) The court held as follows:
[W]hen a
plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president or other official at the
highest level of corporate management, and that official moves for a protective
order to prohibit the deposition, the trial court should first determine
whether the plaintiff has shown good cause that the official has unique or
superior personal knowledge of discoverable information. If not, as will
presumably often be the case in the instance of a large national or
international corporation, the trial court should issue the protective order
and first require the plaintiff to obtain the necessary discovery through
less-intrusive methods. These would include interrogatories directed to the
high-level official to explore the state of his or her knowledge or involvement
in plaintiff's case; the deposition of lower-level employees with appropriate
knowledge and involvement in the subject matter of the litigation; and the
organizational deposition of the corporation itself, which will require the
corporation to produce for deposition the most qualified officer or employee to
testify on its behalf as to the specified matters to be raised at the
deposition. (§ 2025, subd. (d)(6).) Should these avenues be exhausted, and the
plaintiff make a colorable showing of good cause that the high-level official
possesses necessary information to the case, the trial court may then lift the
protective order and allow the deposition to proceed.
(Id. at p. 1289.) In later cases, it has been explained that this
rule is “based upon the recognition that an official's time and the exigencies
of his everyday business would be severely impeded if every plaintiff filing a
complaint against an agency head, in his official capacity, were allowed to
take his oral deposition. Such procedure would be contrary to the public
interest, plus the fact that ordinarily the head of an agency has little or no
knowledge of the facts of the case.” (Nagle
v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1465, 1468.) “An exception will be
made to this rule only when the deposing party makes two showings. First, the
deposing party must show that the government official has direct personal
factual information pertaining to material issues in the action. Second, the
deposing party must also show the information to be gained from the deposition
is not available through any other source.” (Contractors’ State License Board v. Superior Court (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 125, 128 [applying Liberty Mutual to a government context].)
Plaintiff here has made a
sufficient showing that the deposition of Mmeje should take place, despite his
status as a former COO of LBMMC (and current status as CEO of USC Hospital
Arcadia). (Mmeje Decl. ¶ 2.) Although Plaintiff articulated a basis for the
relevance of Mmeje’s deposition that included his “day-to-day management during
the relevant period of this matter,” Plaintiff has also presented evidence
suggesting that Mmeje has direct personal factual information pertaining to
material issues, which Plaintiff cannot otherwise obtain. Plaintiff alleges
that he had a meeting with Mmeje in November 2019 in which he raised his
complaints (later memorialized in an email from Mmeje) and that another witness
has testified in deposition that Mmeje made comments adverse to Plaintiff that
may have resulted in his removal from a panel schedule or contributed to his
termination. (Ghobrial Decl. ¶¶ 6–7, Exhs. E, F.) Mmeje is thus likely in a
unique position to confirm what complaints Plaintiff made and any actions that
were taken in response. 
This does not mean, however,
that Defendants’ motion for a protective order is without merit. For one,
Plaintiff unilaterally noticed the date of Mmeje’s deposition for a day and
time in which he was unavailable, and refused to consider repeated offers of
alternative dates. Plaintiff articulates no reason why he could not confer with
Defendants and Mmeje regarding an available date for deposition. (Opposition at
p. 10; see LASC Civility Guidelines, subd. (e)(2).)[1]
Moreover, Plaintiff does not
explain why he could not agree to define the scope of his deposition of Mmeje,
when Defendants’ proposed scope of deposition, both in informal correspondence
and in the present motion, precisely tracks the grounds of relevance that
Plaintiff offers in opposition to this motion. Defendants seek an order
limiting the scope of deposition to any conversation he has had with or about
Plaintiff, the hernia pilot program, the proctoring issue, and matters
concerning discrimination, retaliation, or termination. (Motion at p. 13; Reply
at p. 10; Mino Decl. Exh. 1.) Plaintiff offers no specific objection to this
proposed scope, much as he offered no response to any proposed definition of
the scope in the informal correspondence that preceded the motion. Accordingly,
a protective order is therefore proper, limiting the scope of the Mmeje
deposition to the hernia pilot program, the proctoring issue, Plaintiff’s
termination, discrimination, harassment, or retaliation faced by Plaintiff, and
conversations with or about Plaintiff.
Plaintiff argues that
Defendants should be held in contempt for failing to appear for the September
28, 2023 deposition. (Opposition at pp. 10–11.) No such order is warranted.
Plaintiff was on notice that Mmeje was not available for deposition on the date
that Plaintiff had scheduled, and was further aware prior to the deposition
that Defendants had filed the present motion for a protective order under Code
of Civil Procedure  sections 1987.1 and
2025.420. As the arguments advanced in the present motion are meritorious,
Plaintiff had no reasonable expectation that the deposition would proceed as
scheduled.
The motion for protective order
is GRANTED, and the scope of Mmeje’s deposition is limited to the hernia pilot
program, the proctoring issue, Plaintiff’s termination, discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation faced by Plaintiff, and conversations with or about
Plaintiff. Plaintiff is also directed to meet and confer with Defendants to
select an alternative date of deposition that works for Plaintiff, Mmeje, and
his counsel.
 


