 Case Number:  22STCV02561    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Armen Ambarachyan’s Motion to Apply Ohio Law is DENIED.
 
Defendant
Armen Ambarachyan’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED as to
the second and third causes of action.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) A court should
sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See id. § 430.10,
subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) Cal.3d 311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. . . . Further, we give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Id. at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747 (“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”)) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A
demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint,
liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there
is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1081.) The demurrer also
may be sustained without leave to amend where the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it probable plaintiff cannot
state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957,
967.)
 
Defendant
Armen Ambarachyan (Defendant) demurrers to the second and third causes of
action for violations of the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights and Quiet Title.
Defendant argues that the HBOR provisions identified require that the subject
property be owner-occupied, which the property at issue here is not. (Demurrer
at pp. 9–11.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff cannot obtain either an
injunction prohibiting a sale or damages for a completed sale, as Defendant has
rescinded the notice of default. (Demurrer at pp. 11–13.) Defendant also argues
that the third cause of action for quiet title, based on the same notice of
default, is moot, and is further filed in the wrong county. (Demurrer at p.
13.) Defendant also brings a motion to dismiss the first cause of action for
usury under Ohio law, also based on the contention that Plaintiff is a resident
of Ohio, under which law the interest rate underlying the loan is not usurious.
(Motion at pp. 9–17.)
 
As an initial matter, no
relief is appropriate on either the demurrer or the motion to apply Ohio law to
the extent they rely on Plaintiff’s residence. Although Defendant contends that
Plaintiff is a resident of Ohio, the FAC (and the Complaint before it) alleged
that Plaintiff’s principal residence is in California, and is indeed on the
property at issue in this action. (FAC ¶ 1; Complaint ¶ 3.) This allegation is
not rebutted by the simultaneous allegation that the property was also
ex-Plaintiff Francesca Fuentes’s primary residence. (Complaint ¶ 3.) Nor is it
rebutted by any judicially noticeable matters, since allegations made in other
complaints filed against Plaintiff are not judicially noticeable. (See RJN
Exhs. A–D; see Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400 [“Courts can
take judicial
notice of the existence, content and authenticity of public
records and other specified documents, but do not take judicial
notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted
in those documents”].) Defendant’s
motion to apply Ohio law has no cited procedural basis, and because its upshot
is the dismissal of the first cause of action (Motion at pp. 17–18), the court
is constrained to interpret it as a demurrer or motion for judgment on the
pleadings, with the qualification that it is an evidence-based motion that does
not admit the allegations of the FAC. Such a motion is defective. (Brinsmead v. Elk Grove Unified
School District
(2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 583, 587 [“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded”].)

 
However,
Defendant’s arguments with respect to the second and third causes of action are
persuasive. First, Plaintiff may not obtain either injunctive relief or damages
for his alleged violations of HBOR, since the notice of default of which he
complains has been rescinded, and no trustee’s sale has taken place. An action
under Plaintiff’s claimed HBOR violations may lie “to enjoin a material
violation” of the relevant Code sections, or to claim damages “[a]fter a
trustee’s deed upon sale has been recorded.” (Civ. Code §§ 2924.12, subd. (a),
(b); 2924.19, subd. (a), (b).) But after the rescission of the offending
notice, there is nothing to enjoin, and in the absence of a sale, there are no
damages no award. Defendant recorded a rescission of its notice of default in
Riverside County on September 12, 2023. (RJN Exh. E.; see Jenkins v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 497, 537 [taking judicial
notice of notice of default], disapproved on other grounds by Yvanova v. New
Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919 .) Nor has any trustee’s sale
taken place, given the FAC’s allegation that Plaintiff is the fee simple owner
of the property. (FAC ¶ 1.) Thus there is no live controversy under HBOR for
this court to adjudicate.
Plaintiff’s quiet title claim is
similarly infirm, resting as it does upon the allegedly void notice of default.
(FAC ¶ 54–58.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not address any arguments based on
mootness or the rescission of the notice of default. 
The demurrer is therefore
SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the second and third causes of action. The
motion to apply Ohio law is DENIED. 
Defendant seeks attorney fees
for prevailing on HBOR claims under Civil Code § 2924.12, subd. (h). (Demurrer
at p. 15.) Defendant is entitled to no attorney fees under that statute, since
that statute provides attorney fees to “a prevailing borrower.” (Civ. Code §
2924.12, subd. (h).Defendant is not the borrower in this action. 
 
 
 