  Case Number:  22STCV27575    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GABRIELA GLORIA MEDINA GOMEZ., et al.

  
        
  vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC 
  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV27575 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 8, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to produce a PMQ is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART
consistent with the ruling set forth below. Accordingly, the Court declines to
award sanctions at this time. 
 
On 8/24/2022, Plaintiffs Gabriela Gloria Medina Gomez aka
Gabriela Medina and Janneth Elizalde (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against General Motors, LLC, alleging a violation of the Song-Beverly
Act—breach of express warranty. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant to produce a Person(s) Most Qualified and
Custodian of Records to be deposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant must be compelled to produce a PMQ because despite
numerous efforts to meet and confer, Defendant failed to respond with
alternative dates of availability and subsequently failed to produce its PMQ as
noticed. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Deposition seeks testimony on the following topics:
 
-        
1. General Motors LLC’s pre-litigation
analysis as to whether the 2019 Chevrolet CRUZE, VIN: 1G1BC5SM6K7113032 should
be repurchased. 
 
-        
2. All repairs and service performed on
the 2019 Chevrolet CRUZE, VIN: 1G1BC5SM6K7113032. 
 
-        
3. General Motors LLC’s policies and
procedures for determining whether a vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or
replacement under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
-        
4. General Motors LLC’s training for
evaluating a pre-litigation repurchase request under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
Moreover, it
seeks production of the following documents:
 
-        
1. YOUR entire pre-litigation file
regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
-        
2. YOUR pre-litigation communications
with Plaintiff(s) regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
-        
3. YOUR policies and procedures for
determining whether a vehicle qualifies for a repurchase under the Song-Beverly
Act. 
 
-        
4. All training materials provided to
YOUR employees or YOUR call-center agents regarding the handling of
pre-litigation consumer requests for a vehicle repurchase in California. 
 
-        
5. All DOCUMENTS evidencing your
pre-litigation evaluation of whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified for a
repurchase under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
-        
6. All DOCUMENTS that YOU reviewed in
YOUR pre-litigation evaluation of whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified for a
repurchase under the Song-Beverly Act.
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues that it has already agreed to produce a PMQ on the following
topics: (1) GM’s pre-litigation analysis as to whether Plaintiff’s Cruze should
be repurchased; (2) Any repairs and service reflected in the Global Warranty
History Report applicable to the Subject Vehicle; and (3) Whether GM received a
request from Plaintiffs to repurchase the vehicle and, if so, how GM responded
to Plaintiffs’ request, if any. Defendant argues that any topics and documents
outside of this scope are overly broad and irrelevant. 
 
The Court disagrees
in part. 
 
As for the
topics of testimony, GM has already agreed to topics 1 and 2, but disagrees
with topics 3 and 4. The Court finds topic 3 relevant for the period of
purchase to the present. However, the Court finds testimony related to training
to be outside the relevant scope of discovery.
 
As for
document production, the Court finds Requests 1, 2, and 3 to be relevant. GM
must produce all documents evidencing policies and
procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of purchase to the present. The
Court also finds Request Nos. 5 and 6 to be relevant, given that they concern
the subject vehicle. Request No.4 is outside the relevant scope of discovery.
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce a PMQ is
granted in part, denied in part, consistent with the ruling set forth above. Accordingly,
the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 