 Case Number:  23STCV12560    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SYMPTOM MEDIA, LLC, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
UNITED STATES LIABILTY INSURANCE, et al.
  
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12560   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 8, 2024




 
            Defendant
AIS’s demurrer is OVERRULED. AIS’s motion to strike is DENIED.  
 
            On
5/31/2023, Plaintiffs Symptom Media, LLC, Matthew L. Rubin, and Andrew L. Rubin
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against United States Liability Insurance
Company, Mount Vernon Fire Insurance Company, Snapp & Associates Insurance
Services, LLC (SNAPP), Alkeme Insurance Services, Inc., and Robin Niehaus
(collectively, Defendants). On 11/7/2023, Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) negligence; (3)
negligent misrepresentation; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5) breach of
contract; (6) tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; and (7) declaratory relief. 
 
            Now,
Defendant Alkeme Insurance Services (AIS or Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s
FAC. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            This
is an insurance broker liability case. More specifically, this case is brought
by three insured against their insurance broker and liability insurer(s) on the
grounds that they were misled by their brokers as to the meaning of a
“Shareholder Endorsement Exclusion” in their Policy. Plaintiffs allege that
based on these misrepresentations, they were denied coverage by the Insurer
Defendants, and have suffered damage as a result. 
 
Discussion 
 
            AIS
argues that Plaintiffs cannot resolve the deficiency previously raised in their
original demurrer, i.e., that Plaintiffs cannot state a claim against it
because it played no role in the events supporting this claim, and because
Plaintiffs are mistaken that it has any interest in, or ownership of, SNAPP. 
 
            AIS
argues that Plaintiff’s allegation are uncertain and insufficient to show that
AIS is a successor-in-interest to SNAPP. In particularly, AIS argues: 
 
The Court
should sustain AIS’ Demurrer to the FAC with prejudice. First, Plaintiffs did
not fix their flawed successor theory. Instead, Plaintiffs newly allege all
“Alkeme Defendants” are liable as successors. Vague and ambiguous group
pleading is not enough. Several companies are named “Alkeme,” and there are
several companies under the “Alkeme” holding company. What “Alkeme” are
Plaintiffs referring to? The FAC does not answer this question. Plaintiffs also
remain unable to support their successor-theory against AIS. Plaintiffs simply
conclude “on information and belief” that AIS acquired SNAPP. Information and
belief are not enough to overcome straightforward, judicially noticeable facts.
SNAPP was at the time, and remains today, its own entity. AIS never purchased
SNAPP. AIS does not control SNAPP. Moreover, even if AIS purchased SNAPP (it
did not) that is still not enough. Plaintiffs must show that either AIS
expressly or implicitly assumed SNAPP’s debts, AIS is a mere continuation of
SNAPP, SNAPP and AIS merged into one entity, or SNAPP fraudulently transferred
its assets to AIS to evade liability. None of this occurred, and Plaintiffs do
not and cannot show that it did. Plaintiffs also do not state viable claims for
relief against AIS.
 
            (Motion,
5: 24-6:9.)
 
            However,
first, the Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the pleading stage. Second,
while Plaintiff’s allegations are based on information and belief, they allege
specific facts which lead them to believe that their allegations are factual.
(FAC ¶¶ 7-10.) “Plaintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that
are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to
believe that the allegations are true.” (Pridonoff v Balokovich (1951)
36 Cal.2d 788, 792.) Third, while Defendant requests judicial notice of
documents to refute Plaintiffs ‘allegations, judicial notice may only
be taken of “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 753.) Here, the documents do not
unequivocally establish that AIS cannot be a successor-in-interest to SNAPP,
and this issue is reasonably subject to dispute. Accordingly, judicial notice
of the truth of these documents is not appropriate here. Fourth, and finally,
while Plaintiffs now allege conduct by all “Alkeme Defendants,” Plaintiffs has
alleged facts which could show that this generalized grouping of Defendants are
collective successors in interest. (FAC ¶¶ 9-10.) Whether or not
this is, in fact, the case, is a factual determination not properly made at
this stage. 
 
            AIS
also argues that even if Plaintiffs have adequately pled a successor
relationship, successors are only liable for the torts of their predecessors in
circumstances not alleged here. More specifically, California law provides that
when a corporation purchases the principal assets of another corporation, “the
purchaser does not assume the seller’s liabilities unless (1) there is an
express or implied agreement of assumption, (2) the transaction amounts to a
consolidation or merger of two companies, and/or (3) the purchasing corporation
is a mere continuation of the seller; or (4) the transfer of assets to the
purchaser is for the fraudulent purpose of escaping liability for the seller’s
debts. (Ray v. Alaad Corp. (1977) 19 Cal.3d 22, 28.)  
 
            However,
Plaintiffs does allege these facts, though based on information and belief. (See
e.g. FAC, at ¶¶ 9, 10.) While the Court
understands Defendant’s contention that these allegations are not robustly
supported by additional facts, this overstates Plaintiff’s obligations at the
pleading stage. It would be a nearly insurmountable hurdle for Plaintiff to be
required to allege the specific facts of a corporate consolidation or merger
which it was not a party to at the pleading stage. This is contemplated by the
discovery process. 
 
            Having
concluded that sufficient facts have been alleged that could show a
successor-in-interest relationship and successor liability, the Court turns to
the sufficiency of the individual claims.
 
            AIS argues
that: (1) Plaintiffs fail to meet the heightened
pleading standards for intentional and negligent misrepresentation; (2) Plaintiffs
fiduciary breach and negligence claims because Plaintiffs cannot show the
requisite element of duty; and (3) Plaintiffs’ intentional tort claims fail
because the FAC pleads inconsistent, contradictory facts.
 
            As
to the first contention, the Court disagrees. While Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs have not alleged the “who, what, when, where” to support a fraud
claim, Plaintiffs claims here against SNAPP are based on a theory of
successor-liability. The “significant principle” for successor liability is
that “the separate entities may be disregarded and the new corporation held
liable for the obligations of the old.” (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209
Cal. App. 4th 1315, 1334.) Here, SNAPP has answered the Complaint, and thus has
not challenged the sufficiency of the allegations of fraud against it. Given
this, Plaintiffs need not allege the specifics of “who, what, when, where”
against Defendant here, because its liability is premised on allegations that
the prior entity, SNAPP, engaged in the fraudulent conduct. 
 
For the same
reason, the Court similarly disagrees with the second contention. Plaintiffs
need not show that AIS owed them a duty of care. Rather, it is sufficient for
them to allege the prior entity, SNAPP, owed such a duty. As already noted,
SNAPP has answered the FAC and does not challenge the sufficiency of the
allegations against it. 
 
Finally, as
for the fourth contention, the Court disagrees. Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs are alleging contradictory facts by simultaneously alleging: “the
Exclusion is ambiguous, and that a reasonable interpretation of the Exclusion
should provide that Plaintiffs have coverage with respect to claims at issue in
this action” (FAC ¶ 28) and that it was confirmed that “…there would be
coverage for the company/shareholders but NOT for the shareholder with more
than 10% ownership.” (FAC, at ¶ 27.) However, these are not contradictory.
Plaintiffs allege that they were knowingly misled to believe that they had
coverage, and that it was reasonable for them to believe that they had coverage
based on the agreement language. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. As set forth above,
the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fraud causes of action.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have necessarily set forth sufficient facts which could
show malice, fraud or oppression. (Civ. Code § 3294.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 