 Case Number:  23NWCV00451    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  C Bravo, et al. VS. bautista, et
al. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00451
HEARING:   8/7/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED. 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
This is about a tractor trailer and car accident that resulted in two
deaths. Defendants Oscar Bautista and Bautista’s Trucking Midwest, Inc. owned
and operated a truck which was towing a 2016 utility trailer. (SAC, ¶¶ 15, 17.)
On September 12, 2022, at approximately 4:55 a.m., the truck collided with a
car occupied by Plaintiff Rodolfo Abundiz Bravo and decedents Edgar Rivelino
Lopez Vasquez and Jorge Cisneros Aguila, slamming it into the rear end of the car.
(SAC, ¶ 17.) 
 
Plaintiff Martha Leticia is the wife of decedent Jorge Cisneros Aguila.
(SAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff Inksally Rodriguez Ramirez is the wife of decedent Edgar
Rivelino Lopez Vasquez. (SAC, ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs Jorge Arturo Cisneros Renteria; Ana
Patricia Cisneros Renteria; Genesis Cisneros Renteria, a minor by and through
her Guardian Ad Litem, Martha Leticia Renteria Ramirez; and Evelyn Y. Cisneros
Renteria are the surviving children of decedent Jorge Cisneros Aguila. (SAC, ¶
7.) Plaintiffs Jesse Jack Lopez Rodriguez and Carlos Lopez, a minor by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem, Inksally Rodriguez Ramirez, are the surviving
children of decedent Edgar Rivelino Lopez Vasquez. (SAC, ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant Bautista was driving the
vehicle past his mandated maximum hours-of-service under Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Regulations and that he had falsified his hours-of-service logs. (SAC, ¶
18.) Plaintiffs sue for the following: (1) wrongful death; (2) survival action;
(3) negligence; (4) negligence per se; (5) loss of consortium; and (6)
negligent entrustment. 
 
Defendants Oscar Bautisa and Bautista’s Trucking Midwest, Inc. move to
strike the punitive damages allegations. Specifically, they move to strike the
following: 
 
1.   
Paragraph 18 of the second amended complaint;

2.   
Paragraph 25 of the second amended complaint;

3.   
Paragraph 40 of the second amended complaint;

4.   
Prayer for Relief, paragraph 8, of the second
amended complaint. 
 

Legal
Standard
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings which are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request judicial notice of the complaint filed in Price, et al. v. Bautista,
et al., Case No. CIVWB2133866 in San Bernardino Superior Court.  
 
A
court may take judicial notice that certain documents were filed in prior
litigation, or that certain factual findings were made, but generally may not
take judicial notice of the contents of those filings, or of the factual
findings themselves. (See, e.g., Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal. App.4th 471, 483-484.) 
 
Thus,
the Court grants the request. 
 
Meet-and-Confer
 
Defendants
satisfied the meet-and-confer requirements. (Decl. Banuelos, ¶¶ 7-8; Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Discussion

 
Defendants
move to strike the allegations referenced above on the grounds that Plaintiffs’
allegations are conclusory, and they do not demonstrate that Defendants’
conduct is anything but unintentional, inadvertent, and innocent. 
 
Civil
Code § 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases
“where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express
or implied . . ..” “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. Finally,
“fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) 
 
Malice
has long been interpreted to mean that malice in fact, as opposed to malice
implied by law, is required.  Malice in fact may be proved under § 3294
either expressly (by direct evidence probative on the existence of hatred or
ill will) or by implication (by indirect evidence from which the jury may draw
inferences). Thus, it has been held that the “malice” required by § 3294
implies an act conceived in a spirit of mischief or with criminal indifference
towards the obligations owed to others. (Taylor v. Super. Ct. (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 894.) Where the defendant’s wrongdoing has been intentional and
deliberate and has the character of outrage frequently associated with crime,
all but a few courts have permitted the jury to award in the tort action for
“punitive” or “exemplary” damages. (Ibid.) Something more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. (Ibid.) There
must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,” or
a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious
and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be
called willful or wanton. (Id., at 894-895.)  Moreover, conclusory
allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)    
 
To justify an
award of punitive damages based on conscious disregard, the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that it willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Super. Ct., supra, 24
Cal.3d 890 at pgs. 895–896.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant drove past his mandated maximum hours of service under Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, which resulted in the death of the two
decedents. (SAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant willfully, wantonly,
and with conscious disregard for the safety of others decided to continue to
operate his truck. (SAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant
falsified his hours-of-service logs to avoid motor carrier safety regulations
that designed to prevent fatigued and inattentive driving. (SAC, ¶ 18.)
 
Based on the above, as
well as the time of the collision and the fact that Defendant rear ended the
Plaintiff occupants, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
that Defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of driving past
his mandated maximum hours of service, and that he willfully and deliberately
did not avoid those consequences. 
 
Defendants
also move to strike the reference in Paragraph 40 of the SAC to California
Highway Patrol Officer B. Voegele’s recommendation that Defendant Bautista be
charged with Vehicular Manslaughter with Gross Negligence in violation of Penal
Code § 192(c)(1).  According to
Defendants, Plaintiff’s SAC relies entirely upon the conclusions contained in
the officer’s report.  Because the report
itself is inadmissible (See, Evidence Code § 1271, Law Revision
Commission Comments) any reference to the report in the SAC should be
stricken.  However, the grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
Defendant’s argument relies upon extrinsic evidence which may not be considered
by the Court at this stage of the proceedings. 

 
Thus,
the motion to strike is DENIED.  
 
 
 