 Case Number:  23NWCV03813    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  C CHAVEZ v. ADECCO USA, INC.,
ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV03813
HEARING:  8/3/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#5
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant
Adecco USA, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  Proceedings are STAYED pending
arbitration.  
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
This is an employment discrimination and
wrongful termination action. Defendant Adecco USA, Inc., a staffing company, moves
to compel arbitration based on a contract Plaintiff signed. (Decl. Prentiss, ¶
5.) Defendant also requests a stay of the action pending arbitration.

 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement 
 
The initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement
is on Defendant. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to
bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
¿“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing
party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of
the agreement.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic¿(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165.)
 
Here, Defendant attached a copy of the agreement Plaintiff signed.
(Decl. Prentiss, ¶ 11. Ex, C.) Thus, Defendant has met its burden. 
 
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
A showing of
unconscionability requires procedural and substantive unconscionability. (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) Procedural
unconscionability asks whether there is oppression from unequal bargaining
power or surprise from buried terms. (Id., at 114.) Substantive
unconscionability asks whether there are overly harsh, one-sided terms. (Ibid.)
There is a sliding scale; if an agreement is particularly substantively
unconscionable, the petitioner need not show a large amount of procedural
unconscionability, and vice versa. (Ibid.) 
 
i.            
Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff has not shown procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff bears
the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary
to show the Agreement was invalid. (See Banner Entertainment Inc., supra,
62 Cal.App.4th at 356-357.) Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration provision is
procedurally unconscionable because Defendant did not provide a copy of the
arbitration rules to which the employee would be bound. But as a sole basis,
not providing a copy of the rules does not support a finding of procedural
unconscionability. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 246.)

 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not shown that the
agreement is invalid based on procedural unconscionability. 
 

ii.           
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff has not shown substantive unconscionability. Plaintiff argues
evidence of substantive unconscionability exists because the agreement requires
him to waive the right to a jury trial; it requires Plaintiff to pay his own
attorney fees if he prevails even though Plaintiff sues under Fair Employment
and Housing Act; and claims asserted against a third-party beneficiary must be resolved
according to the dispute resolution agreement. Plaintiff further argues that
the agreement does not identify specific entities or individuals as third-party
beneficiaries. 
 
Contracting parties can voluntarily agree to
waive their constitutional right to have their dispute resolved in a judicial
forum by a jury. (Murrey v. Super. Ct. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1236.)
Thus, the jury trial waiver is not substantively unconscionable. 
 
Upon the Court’s review, the agreement is
silent on attorney fees. Thus, contrary to what Plaintiff claims, it does not
require Plaintiff to pay his own attorney fees if he prevails. 
 
Contrary to what Plaintiff claims, Defendant identifies the company’s
clients and their officers, directors, employees, agents, parents,
subsidiaries, and/or affiliated entities as third-party beneficiaries. (Decl.
Prentiss, ¶ 11, Ex. C.) Further, requiring arbitration of the claims against
the company’s clients and their officers, directors, employees, agents,
parents, subsidiaries, and/or affiliated entities is not unfairly one-sided
because it does not allocate the risks in an unreasonable manner. (Zullo v.
Super. Ct. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has
not shown that the agreement is invalid based on substantive unconscionability.

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  Proceedings are STAYED pending
arbitration.  
 
 
 