  Case Number:  22NWCV00656    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  C M.G. v. Montebello Unified School District 
CASE
NO.: 22NWCV00656
HEARING:
8/7/24 @ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#1
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Montebello Unified School District’s motion to stay action is
DENIED.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
This is a child sexual assault case against defendant
Montebello Unified School District. Defendant moves to stay the action. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Trial
courts have the inherent power to stay proceedings to promote justice and
judicial efficiency. (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)
 
Requests for Judicial
Notice
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of various court
filings and court orders in West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (Contra
Costa County), First Appellate District, Case No. A169314, and Roe #2 v.
Superior Court (Santa Barbara County), Second Appellate District, Case No.
B334707. 
 
A
court may take judicial notice that certain documents were filed in prior
litigation, or that certain factual findings were made, but generally may not
take judicial notice of the contents of those filings, or of the factual
findings themselves. (See, e.g., Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal. App.4th 471, 483-484.) 
 
Thus,
the Court takes judicial notice of the filing of the documents, but not their
contents. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves to stay the action pending
resolution of two matters before the California Courts of Appeal regarding the constitutionality
of AB 218, which enacted the version of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1 under
which Plaintiffs have sued. 
Defendant moves to stay under Farmland
Irrigation Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208.  However, Farmland applies only when an
action is brought in a California court involving the same parties and the same
subject matter as an action already pending in a court of another jurisdiction.
That is not the situation here. 
 
Defendant
argues that AB218 retroactively strips statutory governmental immunity from
public entities and violates Article XVI, section 6 of the California
Constitution, which prohibits gifts of public funds.  Defendant asserts it cannot settle the case
while AB218’s constitutionality remains unresolved, so this Court should stay
the actions against it to promote judicial economy. Defendant opines that the
Courts of Appeal will adjudicate the case in a “relatively short period of time”
and imminently. (Mot., pgs. 5, 6.) 
 
In the
Court’s view, however, any possibility of a quick resolution of the
constitutional issue is speculative. There is always the possibility that the
Courts of Appeal could issue conflicting rulings, or the California Supreme
Court may decide to grant review.  The
Court finds that judicial economy is best served by going forward with the
litigation, and if Defendant is unable to engage in settlement discussions, the
parties can proceed with discovery and motion work.  
 
Based on the above, the motion is DENIED. 
 
 