  Case Number:  23CHCV00439    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/29/24     Case    Name:  Launch Credit Union v. Kevin    Lombardo, and Does 1-20     Case    # 23CHCV00439      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    APRIL 29,  2024    APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF  POSSESSION  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00439    Motion  filed: 3/1/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Launch Credit Union  (“Plaintiff”)  RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting Plaintiff’s Application.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from an alleged breach of contract.  Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession against Defendant Kevin Lombardo  (“Defendant”) for a 2021 Toyota RAV4 motor vehicle.   On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against  Defendant and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach of  Contract, (2) Common Count, (3) Breach of Contract, (4) Common Count, (5) Claim  & Delivery, and (6) Conversion. Subsequently, on November 13, 2023,  Defendant filed his Answer to the Complaint.   On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Application  for Writ of Possession (the “Application”).   On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed all unserved Does 1-20 at  Case Management Conference. (12/11/23 Minute Order.)                No  opposing papers have been received by the Court.   ANALYSIS   “Upon the filing of the complaint  or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for  a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the  court in which the action is brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010(a).)              Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and  include:   (1) A showing of the basis of the  plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the  property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written  instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.   (2) A showing that the property  is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant  came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,  information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.   (3) A particular description of  the property and a statement of its value.   (4) A statement, according to the  best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of  the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private  place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is  probable cause to believe that such property is located there.   (5) A statement that the property  has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or  seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so  seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.   Before the hearing on the Writ of  Possession, the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and  complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the  application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030.)   “The writ will be issued if the  court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other  requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is  more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the  defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 511.090.)     Prior to the issuance of a writ  of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less  than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property or in a  greater amount.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  515.010(a).)   A.     Notice “Unless otherwise ordered or  specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting papers shall be served  and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing . . . . However, if the  notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period of notice before the  hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the place of mailing and  the place of address are within the State of California[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1005.) The Court notes that Plaintiff served its Application by  substituted service on October 12, 2023, and on the same day, Plaintiff also  mailed the copies of the papers to Defendant at the substituted service  address. (10/16/23 Proof of Service.).   Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff’s notice appears to  be proper.   B.      Basis of  Plaintiff’s Claim   Plaintiff submits evidence that on May 27, 2021, Defendant  entered into Closed End Loan and Security Agreement #2 (the “Agreement”) with  Plaintiff, in the State of Florida, for the purchase of a 2021 Toyota RAV 4  motor vehicle (the “Subject Vehicle”). (Fatu Decl., ¶ 8, Caley Decl., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff pleads that pursuant to the Agreement, it is entitled to repossess  the Subject Vehicle upon Defendant’s failure to cure a default. (Compl., Ex.  “2,” at p. 3.) In its verified Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has  defaulted since July 25, 2022, by failing to make the payment then due and  owing under the terms of the Agreement. (Fatu Decl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff asserts  that Defendant owes now a principal balance owed of $28,379.74, unpaid interest  of $130.62, and later charges in the amount of $50.00, totaling $28,560.36. (Fatu  Decl., ¶ 16, Compl., ¶ 25.)   Here, Plaintiff has applied for a writ of possession of the  Subject Vehicle. It has correctly executed the application under oath and has  included a copy of the written Agreement in its verified Complaint. (Compl.,  Ex. “2.”) Defendant does not oppose the Application for Writ of Possession.    The Court determines that Plaintiff has made the requisite  showings through its verified complaint and sworn declaration.    C.     Wrongful  Detention   In accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section  512.010(b)(2), the Application must include “a showing that the property is  wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came  into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,  information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” Plaintiff presents that  Defendant breached the terms of the Agreement on July 25, 2022, by failing to  make monthly loan payment. (Fatu Decl., ¶ 14.) Additionally, since the initial  missed payment on July 25, 2022, Defendant has failed and continues to fail to  make any subsequent payments. (Ibid.) Under the terms of the Agreement,  Plaintiff has the right to repossess the vehicle in the event of default. (Fatu  Decl., ¶ 17, Compl., Ex. “2.”) Plaintiff asserts that it demanded Defendant  return the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff, but Defendant refused to return, thus  wrongfully detained the Subject Vehicle after defaulting on the Agreement.  (Fatu Decl., ¶ 18.) Therefore, Plaintiff has made requisite showing that the  Defendant has wrongfully detained the Subject Vehicle.   D.     Description  and Value of Property Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010(b)(3), the Application must include a particular  description of the property and a statement of its value. Plaintiff has fulfilled  this requirement by providing an explicit description of the equipment,  including its make, model, model year, and VIN number, as well as stating its current  value. (Fatu Decl., ¶¶ 8, 21). Consequently, Plaintiff  adheres to the mandates of Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010 subdivision  (b)(3) E.      Statutory  Statements Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010 subdivisions (b)(4) and (5), the application must  include:  (4) A statement,  according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of  the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is  within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a  showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located  there. (5) A statement that the  property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a  statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;  or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.             Here,  Plaintiff has provided a statement that the Subject Vehicle “has not been taken  for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to statute, and has not been seized  under an execution against the plaintiff’s property.” (Appl., ¶ 8.)               Furthermore,  Plaintiff’s counsel attests that “subsequent to the filing of Plaintiff’s  Application, I was made aware of the fact that Defendant had re-located once  again to a new address at 11752 Debbie Lane, Garden Grove, CA 92840 (the  “Debbie Lane address”).” (Caley Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff believes the Subject  Vehicle is located at this address, based on confirmation of Defendant’s  current address via an Accurint Report. (Id., ¶¶ 5, 7.)  Consequently, Plaintiff requests the Court to  grant its request to submit a revised Proposed Order to reflect the Debbie Lane  address as the vehicle levy address. (Id., ¶ 7.) The Court notes that  the Debbie Lane address was the same address where substituted service was made  upon Defendant on October 12, 2023. (10/16/23 Proof of Service.).               Accordingly,  the Court determines that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements for the  statutory statements. Furthermore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to file  a revised Proposed Order.   F.      Undertaking Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010, an undertaking must be filed before  the writ issues in the amount of “not less than twice the value of the  defendant’s interest in the property.” However, if “the court finds that the  defendant has no interest in the property, the court “shall waive the  requirement of ... undertaking[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 515.010, subd. (b).)   Here,  Plaintiff provides evidence showing that the amount owed on the Subject Vehicle  surpasses its market value, indicating that Defendants possess no equity in the  equipment. (Fatu Decl. ¶ 16, 21, Mot., at p. 4.)   Consequently,  based on this specific circumstance, the requirement for Plaintiff’s undertaking  should be waived pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010  subdivision (b). Furthermore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to impose a  re-delivery bond of $30,000 for Defendant, should Defendant intend to retake  possession under Code Civ. Proc. § 515.20(b).    Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed Application for  Writ of Possession is GRANTED.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s  Application for Writ of Possession of the 2021 Toyota RAV4 is GRANTED.    Plaintiff’s  October 11, 2023, Proposed Order to Replace Originally Submitted Order and  Include New Address to Levy Vehicle is GRANTED.    Moving  party to give notice.