 Case Number:  23CHCV01873    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/29/24     Case    Name:  Sanah “Sonya” Hamad v. Prezzee,    Icn.; Peter Durham; and Does 1-10     Case    # 23CHCV01873      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 29, 2024    DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01873    Motion  filed: 3/21/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Prezzee, Inc. (“Prezzee”),  and Peter Durham (“Durham”) (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Sanah “Sonya” Hamad (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court granting Defendants’ demurrer to the Fifth and Sixth  Causes of Action and striking portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is GRANTED with LEAVE TO AMEND.   BACKGROUND   On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants and Does 1-10. Subsequently, on January  19, 2024, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in response to  Defendant’s demurrer filed on September 27, 2023. The FAC alleges the following  causes of action: (1) Reproductive Health Decision-Making Discrimination in  Violation of FEHA, (2) Sex Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (3) Disability  Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (4) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (5)  Harassment in Violation of FEHA, (6) Failure to Prevent Discrimination,  Harassment and/or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (7) Failure to Engage in  the Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA, (8) Failure to Accommodate in  Violation of FEHA, (9) Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, (10)  Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, and (11) Failure to  Reimburse Business Expenses.   On March 21, 2024, Defendants  filed the instant Demurrer (the “Demurrer”) with Motion to Strike (the  “Motion”). Plaintiff then filed her Opposition on April 16, 2024. Subsequently,  Defendants filed their Reply on April 22, 2024.   ANALYSIS   “It is black letter law that a demurrer  tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint” (Lewis v.  Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A general demurrer is  proper, and typically used, where the plaintiff fails to allege “facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e); Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.)   “The sufficiency of a cause of action is  evaluated by presuming all of the material factual allegations in the complaint  are true.” (Aubry v. TriCity Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966 –  967 (Aubry).) In ruling on a demurrer, a court may consider facts that  are properly subject to judicial notice.” (Arroyo v. Plosay, 225 Cal.  App. 4th 279.) In ruling on a demurrer, the allegations of the complaint must  be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.  (Glennen v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Nevertheless,  while "[a] demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, [it does] not  [admit] contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact." (George  v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112,  1120, 135.) Additionally, “[a] complaint otherwise good on its face is subject  to demurrer when facts judicially noticed render it defective.” (Evans v.  City of Berkeley (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1, 6.)   “It is error for a trial court to  sustain a demurrer when the plaintiff has stated a cause of action under any  possible legal theory. (Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7  Cal.3d 94, 103.) And it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without  leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any  defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment. (Blank v.  Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)” Aubry, supra, 2 Cal. 4th  at 967.)   A.     Meet and  Confer   A  party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with  the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of  determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).)  A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule  a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)   On February 21, 2024,  Defendants’ counsel telephonically met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel,  discussing issues raised in the Demurrer and Motion. Despite efforts, the  parties were unable to reach a resolution on their disputes. (Bronstein Decl.,  ¶ 6.)   Therefore, the Court  concludes that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.   B.      Fifth Cause  of Action – Harassment in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq.)   Defendants assert that  Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies required to bring a  claim under Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), arguing that Plaintiff’s  original complaint filed with state Department of Fair Employment and Housing  (“DFEH”) does not allege that she was harassed due to her request for  reasonable accommodations, as alleged under the Fifth Cause of Action in this  action.   “To exhaust his or her administrative remedies  as to a particular act made unlawful by the Fair Employment and Housing Act,  the claimant must specify that act in the administrative complaint, even if the  complaint does specify other cognizable wrongful acts.” (Martin v. Lockheed  Missiles & Space Co. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1718, 1724.) “‘The  administrative exhaustion requirement is satisfied if the allegations of the civil  action are within the scope of the EEOC charge, any EEOC investigation  actually completed, or any investigation that might reasonably have been  expected to grow out of the charge. Thus, the judicial complaint may encompass  any discrimination ‘like and reasonably related to’ the allegations of  the EEOC charge. ... Plaintiffs may proceed on claims not explicitly set forth  in a charge of discrimination if the claim is “like or reasonably related to  the EEOC charges” and could reasonably be expected to grow out of an EEOC  investigation of the charge. [Citation.]’” (Nazir v. United Airlines,  Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 266–267.)    Conversely, in Wills v.  Superior Court (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 143 (Wills), the court determined  that a plaintiff had not exhausted her administrative remedies because she did  not file a sufficiently specific administrative claim. The Wills Court  reasoned that “neither  Wills's administrative complaint nor the OC Court's letter mentioned  harassment. A claim the OC Court discriminated against Wills by firing her  based on her mental disability is distinct and different in nature from a claim  Wills's coworkers harassed her during her employment, especially given the lack  of any evidence her coworkers harassed Wills based on her disability.  [Citation.]” (Id., at p. 157.)   Upon reviewing the FAC, the  Court observes that Plaintiff alleged in her complaint to DFEH the following  adverse actions:    “Complaint  was harassed because of  complainant's sex/gender, other, pregnancy, childbirth, breast  feeding, and/or related medical conditions, disability (physical, intellectual/developmental,  mental health/psychiatric), family care and medical leave (cfra) related to  serious health condition of employee or family member, child bonding, or  military exigencies, pregnancy disability leave (pdl), reproductive health  decisionmaking.”    (FAC, Ex. “1.”)              Here, in contrast to the Wills case, Plaintiff explicitly  alleges the wrongful act of Defendant’s harassment due to various factors, including  “pregnancy, childbirth, breast feeding, ... medical conditions, disability[.]” These  factors underpin Plaintiff’s claim and request for reasonable accommodation. Unlike  the distinction drawn between discrimination and harassment claims, it is clear  that a claim for harassment arising from Plaintiff’s request for reasonable  accommodation is neither distinct nor different in nature from related claims.  Furthermore, Plaintiff’s DEFH complaint specifically asserts that Defendants’  denial of her reasonable accommodation request was motivated by discrimination  and retaliation, supporting the finding that the particular act of harassment “might be uncovered by a  reasonable investigation” of the denial of her request for reasonable  accommodation. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Ca.4th  243, 268.)     Consequently, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s harassment complaint encompasses  a basis for reasonable accommodation, or alternatively, that the complaint as a  whole is sufficient to uncover the particular act of harassment through a  reasonable investigation.    Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that her amended complaint, filed  with DFEH on January 19, 2024, comprehensively includes all allegations, such  as harassment based on her request for reasonable accommodation. (Opp’n., at p.  6.) Notably, Plaintiff asserts that the amended complaint, as incorporated in  the FAC, was duly verified as mandated by the submission process on the DFEH’s  portal. (Id., at p. 5.)    Defendants do not dispute the completeness of the amended  complaint filed with DFEH, nor do they contest the verification process. Instead,  Defendants challenge the FAC on the grounds that it lacks proof of  verification, arguing that “unverified information relayed to DFEH may not  substitute for a formal administrative charge ... [t]herefore, Plaintiff’s  ‘amendment’ fails.” (Reply, at p. 3.) However, they do not provide any legal  authorities to substantiate their claim. It is important to note that neither oral  statement nor unverified written correspondence made to DFEH may substitute for  a formal administrative charge. (See Wills, supra, 195  Cal.App.4th at p. 158.) Despite this, the FAC does include an amended formal  administrative charge, rendering Defendants’ argument on this point  unconvincing.   Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the  Fifth Cause of Action.   C.     Sixth Cause  of Action – Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and/or Retaliation in  Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code § 12940(k).)   Defendants argue that  Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action also lacks exhaustion of administrative  remedies under Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), as it is derivative of  Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action.   As the Court has previously  concluded that Plaintiff does not fail to plead the Fifth Cause of Action and  has exhausted administrative remedies, it follows that Defendants’ argument  against the Sixth Cause of Action on the same grounds is untenable.   Therefore, the Court  OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the Sixth Cause of Action.   D.     Motion to  Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are  that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been  drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds  for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of  judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   In  their Motion to Strike, Defendants seek to strike the following portions from  the FAC:   Paragraph  63, on page 13, lines 17-20: "During the Zoom meeting, Defendants  presented Plaintiff with a severance agreement which stated that Plaintiff  would give up all her rights to sue PREZZEE and its employees, must keep the  settlement confidential, refrain from disparaging Defendants in any way and  agree that PREZZEE was not admitting to any fault whatsoever.”   Paragraph  64, from page 13, lines 21-28 to page 14, lines 1-7: “Most gallingly, the  severance agreement contained numerous false statements, which Defendants knew  to be false when they presented it to Plaintiff. These false statements  contained in the proposed severance agreement were designed to conceal  Defendants’ wrongdoing:   “...Former Employee  represents and warrants that she has no knowledge of any illegal actions or  omissions by Company nor does she know of any basis on which any third party or  governmental entity could assert such a claim...Former Employee further  represents and warrants that she has fulfilled her duties to Company to the  best of her abilities and in a reasonable and prudent manner, and that she has  not knowingly engaged, directly or indirectly, in any actions or omissions that  are unlawful, nor has she failed to report any such actions or omissions. Former  Employee acknowledges and agrees that all salary or wage compensation due her  by Company, whether by contract or by law, has been paid in full, and she  has been provided all rights and benefits to which she is entitled without  interference by Company, including, but not limited to, vacation, sick time,  paid or unpaid time off, family and medical leave, accommodation for any  disability, or any contractual rights or privileges, and that Former Employee  has no outstanding claims for any compensation or benefits.” (Emphasis in  original.)               Defendants  argue that paragraphs 63-64 should be stricken as they contain privilege  settlement discussion. (Mot., at p. 4.)               In her  response, Plaintiff maintains that paragraphs 63-64 do not allege that the severance  established liability; rather, they allege that severance agreement “contained  numerous false statements ... [which] were designed to conceal Defendants’  wrongdoing.” (Opp’n., at p.6.) However, Plaintiff does not adequately justify  why these allegations, even if considered probative, are “necessary to the  sufficiency of the pleading.” (See Dabney v. Key (1922) 57 Cal.App.762,  763 [“The expression was but a probative fact not necessary to the sufficiency  of the pleading and was properly stricken out.”])               Consequently,  the Court GRANTS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike.             CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Demurrer is OVERRULED.   Defendants’  Motion to Strike is GRANTED with LEAVE TO AMEND as to paragraphs 63-64.   Plaintiff  is ordered to file a Second Amended Complaint as to paragraphs 63-64 within 20  days.   Moving  party is to give notice.