  Case Number:  23CHCV03097    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    5/6/24     Case    Name: Ninnette Rodriguez Lopez v. Monina Carlos; Carlos Mendoza; Maria    Mata; and Does 1-25     Case    # 23CHCV03097      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F-49    MAY 6, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF  CROSS-COMPLAINT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03097    Motion  filed: 3/11/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Defendants Monina  Carlos and Ramon Mendoza Carlos (erroneously sued herein as Carlos Mendoza)  (collectively, “Defendants/Cross-Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court striking the language regarding attorney’s fees in the Cross-Complaint.     TENTATIVE  RULING: The motion  is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from a three-vehicle collision that allegedly  occurred on October 22, 2021. (Compl., at p. 4)   On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff Ninnette Rodriguez Lopez (“Plaintiff”)  filed the Complaint against Defendants/Cross-Defendants, and Defendant  /Cross-Complainant Maria Mata (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”), and Does 1  through 25, alleging (1) Motor Vehicle Liability, and (2) General Negligence.  Subsequently, Defendants/Cross-Defendants and Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed  their separate Answers to the Complaint on December 1, 2023, and December 15,  2023, respectively.      On December 22, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant filed her  Cross-Complaint against Defendants/Cross-Defendants, and Roes 1 through 25,  alleging (1) Indemnity, (2) Comparative Contribution, and (3) Declaratory  Relief.   On March 11, 2024, Defendants/Cross-Defendants filed the instant  Motion to Strike (the “Motion”) to the Cross-Complaint.               On April  26, 2024, the moving party, Defendants/Cross-Defendants, filed a Notice of  Non-Opposition to the Motion.                          No opposing papers have been received by the Court.   ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford  v. Shultz, 42 Cal. 2d 767,  782 (1954) [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].)    An immaterial or  irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient  claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by  the allegations of the complaint.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The  grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way  of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  437.) A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.       Meet and Confer “Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party  shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining  if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the  motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §  435.5, subd. (a).)  If no agreement is  reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a  declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and  conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the  party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request  or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendants/Cross-Defendants’ counsel attests that he  attempted to engage in a good faith meet and confer with the counsel for  Defendant/Cross-Complainant on January 11, 2024; however, no responses from  Defendant/Cross-Complainant have been received. (Matamoros Decl., ¶ 3.)    Accordingly, the Court finds that the requirement for meet  and confer declaration has been met, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 435.5, subdivision (a)(3)(B).    2.       Timeliness   “A party served with a cross-complaint  may within 30 days after service move, demur, or otherwise plead to the  cross-complaint in the same manner as to an original complaint.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 432.10)     “Any party,  within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of  motion to strike the whole or any part thereof [e.g., 30 days after the service  of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or  stipulation.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)    “Any period of  notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any period  or on a date certain after the service of the document, which time period or  date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended after service  by electronic means by two court days, but the extension shall not apply to  extend the time for filing any of the following[.] [inapplicable here]” (Code  Civ. Proc., §1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).)   “If the parties  are unable to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the motion to  strike must be filed, the moving party shall be granted an automatic 30-day  extension of time within which to file a motion to strike, by filing and  serving, on or before the date a motion to strike must be filed, a declaration  stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer  was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.  The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the motion to strike was  previously due[.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).)   Here, the  Cross-Complaint was served via email on Defendants/Cross-Defendants on December  21, 2023. (Cross-Complaint, at p. 6, Proof of Service), establishing the  deadline for Defendants/Cross-Defendants to file a motion to strike as January  24, 2024.    Furthermore,  the moving party’s declaration establishes that Defendant/Cross-Complainant did  not respond to their meet and confer attempt, thus they were unable to meet and  confer “at least five days before the date the motion to strike must be filed.”  Consequently, under Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(2), the  moving party should be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time, extending  the deadline to file the Motion to February 23, 2024.   Here, Defendants  filed their Motion on March 11, 2024, missing the established deadline. Consequently, the Court considers the filing of the Motion to  be untimely.    However, the Court exercises its discretion to address the  Motion on its merits.   B.      Motion to  Strike Attorney’s Fees   Defendants/Cross-Defendants move for the Court to strike  the following portions concerning attorney’s fees in the Cross-Complaint:   On  page 3, paragraph 8, First Cause of Action, which reads as follows: “By reason  of the foregoing, Cross-Complainants will be compelled to incur attorneys’  fees, costs of suit, and expenses of litigation in the defense of the main  action herein, and the prosecution of these Cross-Complaints, the whole of  which the actively negligent Cross-Defendants, and each of them, should be  compelled to pay and reimburse Cross-Complainants.”   On  page 4, paragraph 12, Second Cause of Action, which reads as follows: “By reasons  of the foregoing allegations, if this Cross-Complainants incur expenses in the  defense of this lawsuit with regard to any judgment or any settlement, these  Cross-Complainants are entitled to judgment against Cross-Defendants, and each  of them, for all sums that is incurred by reason of said judgment, settlement  expenses, investigations, including Attorneys’ fees and court costs in  defending the within action.”   On  page 5, Prayer for Relief, ¶ 4, which reads as follows: “4. That  Cross-Complainants recover their Attorneys' fees, costs of suit, and expenses  of litigation incurred herein;” California Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 provides  for attorney’s fees specifically provided by statute or by agreement between  the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1021, Gray v. Don Miller & Associates,  Inc. (1984) 35 Cal.3d 498, 504.)   In Watson v. Department of Transportation (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 885 (Watson), a motorist sued a second driver, Watson, and  the Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”), for injuries sustained in a  motor vehicle collision that occurred while traffic signals were being reset.  Watson cross-complained against Caltrans on a theory of equitable indemnity or,  in the alternative, indemnity for comparative fault. (Id., at p. 888.)  The Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s award of attorney’s fees and  cost on Watson’s cross-complaint, finding that the claims that Watson defended  in the principal case were not a cause of action for implied indemnity. (Id.,  at 890.)    Furthermore, the Court of Appeal analyzed that the duty  that Caltrans allegedly owed to Watson differs in kind from a duty of indemnity  to hold Watson harmless from the consequence of such an injury by a third  party. (Id., at p. 894.) The Watson court further explained that  “[e]very motorist owes a duty of care to avoid injury to other motorists. When  an injured motorist sues two or more other motorists, their duty to avoid  injury to each other is immaterial to the question whether there is a duty of  indemnity between the defendants. That duty must be found upon a relationship  which under the exemplars of the common law or statute gives rise to a duty of  complete indemnity, as to which an ancillary duty to defend arises.” (Id.,  at p. 894.)                In the present case, it is clear  that Cross-Complaint does not cite any statute that specifically provides  attorney’s fees under any of its causes of action.    Moreover, the Court finds no basis for implied indemnity  available to Defendant/Cross-Complainant, pursuant to the ruling in Watson.     Firstly, similar to the second driver in Watson,  Defendant Maria Mata cross-complains Defendants/Cross-Defendants for attorney's  fees and costs incurred by her defense of the principal action filed by  Plaintiff.                Secondly, mirroring the rationale in  Watson, the Court finds that the causes of action in the principal  action do not give rise to established categories of implied indemnity, e.g.,  implied contractual indemnity, vicarious liability, or an intentional tort  giving rise to complete equitable indemnity. (See Watson, supra,  68 Cal.App.4th, at 891.)    Thirdly, the Court determines that the Cross-Complaint does  not implicate any duty owed by Defendants/Cross-Defendants beyond the general  duty of every motorist to avoid injuring others, which is distinct from a duty  to indemnity Defendant/Cross-Complainant. Therefore, the precedent set in Watson  leads to the conclusion that there is no basis for a claim of implied indemnity  under which Defendant/Cross-Complainant could be entitled to attorney’s fees.                Consequently, the Court determines  that attorney fees are unrecoverable under the causes of action alleged in the  Cross-Complaint.   Based on the above, the unopposed Motion to Strike is  GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.     CONCLUSION   The Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.