 Case Number:  21STCV47047    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   March
13, 2024                                               
 
CASE NAME:           Bart
Sullivan v. California Fair Plan Association
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV47047

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
California FAIR Plan Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Bart Sullivan
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order granting summary judgment in Defendant’s favor as to the entire FAC;
2.      An
Order that Defendant did not breach the policy under the second cause of action
because Plaintiff made material misrepresentations in the presentation of his
claim;
3.      An
Order that Defendant did not breach the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing alleged under Plaintiff’s third cause of action because there was no
underlying breach of contract as Plaintiff made material misrepresentations in
the presentation of his claim;
4.      An
Order that Defendant did not violation Business & Professions Code section
17200 alleged under Plaintiff’s third cause of action;
5.      An
Order that Plaintiff is not entitled to declaratory relief under his first
cause of action as there was no underlying breach by Defendant; and
6.      An
Order that Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication is DENIED, in part and GRANTED,
in part.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 27, 2021, Plaintiff Bart Sullivan (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant California Fair Plan Association and Debora
Stefans (“Defendants.”)  
 
The FAC was filed on March 21, 2022. The FAC alleged three
causes of action (1) Declaratory Judgment, (2) Breach of Contract, and (3)
Unfair Business Practices and Bad Faith. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff
had a contract with Defendant California Fair Plan Association, whereby
Defendant would pay the insured for any losses and repairs from direct physical
loss or damage. Plaintiff alleges that after a truck collision damaged his
house, Defendant denied settlement of the claims and denied coverage.  
 
On April 28, 2022, Defendant California Fair Plan
Association filed an Answer.  
 
On December 21, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Motion for
Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication. On February 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendant filed a Reply on March 8, 2024.[1]
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
Summary
Judgment/Adjudication
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843). In
analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley¿v.¿Oakshade¿Town Center¿(2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).¿ Thus, summary judgment or summary adjudication is
granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the
papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact
exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP §
437c(c);¿Villa v.¿McFarren¿(1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 741).¿ 
¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
party¿moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the
initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element.¿(Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520). Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.”¿(Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389). A motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must be denied where the moving party's
evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence of any
opposition or where the opposition is weak.¿(See¿Leyva v. Superior Court¿(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475;¿Salesguevara¿v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Once the¿moving¿party has met the burden, the burden shifts
to the opposing party¿to show via specific facts that a triable issue of
material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.¿(CCP §
437c(o)(2)).¿ When¿a¿party¿cannot¿establish an essential element or defense, a
court must grant a motion for summary adjudication.¿(CCP § 437c(o)(1)-(2)).¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Issue 1: Material
Misrepresentation by Plaintiff
 
Defendant contends that it did not breach the subject policy
because Plaintiff made material misrepresentations in the presentation of his
claim.[2]
Specifically, that Plaintiff mislead Defendant as to who was driving the U-Haul
truck that damaged his property and to whether or not he had a tenant. Plaintiff
argues there is a disputed material fact as to who was driving the U-Haul.
 
To state a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must
allege sufficient facts to establish (1) a contract between the parties, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damages to the plaintiff from the breach. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)¿“As damages are an element of a breach of contract
cause of action [citation], a plaintiff cannot obtain judgment on a breach of
contract cause of action in an amount of damages to be determined later.” (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241 (Paramount
Petroleum).)  
 
Here, Defendant did not meet its initial burden indicating
no triable issues of material fact exist. Indeed, Defendant’s own evidence
indicates a material factual dispute exists. Namely, whether there was a tenant
at Plaintiff’s property. Defendant indicates that Plaintiff told them that the
incident was caused by tenant’s backing a U-Haul truck into the subject
property’s car port. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (SSUMF)
No. 13.) However, Defendant’s evidence indicates that the alleged tenant may
not have been a tenant. (Compendium of Exhibits, Exhibit 14, Deposition of
Plaintiff 16:18-17:23.) Put differently, there is a dispute as to whether
Plaintiff meant “tenant” in the sense that it excluded coverage from the policy
or whether Defendant’s adjuster wrote “tenant” after interpreting Plaintiff’s report
of some woman storing furniture on his property.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication as to the first issue concerning breach of contract due to
material misrepresentation.
 
Issue 2: Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
For the same reasons articulated above, the court DENIES
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as there is a triable issue of fact
concerning Plaintiff’s alleged material misrepresentation.
 
Issue 3: Violation
of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200
 
Summary adjudication must completely dispose of the cause of
action, defense, damages claim or duty issue to which it is directed. CCP §
437c(f)(1). The court declines to address Defendant’s UCL
argument at this time because Plaintiff’s third cause of action concerns both
Unfair Business Practices and Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
and, as noted above, there is a triable issue of fact concerning the alleged
material misrepresentation. 
 
Issue 4:
Declaratory Relief
 
For the same reasons articulated above, the court DENIES
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as there is a triable issue of fact
concerning Plaintiff’s alleged material misrepresentation.
 
Issue 5: Punitive
Damages
 
Lastly, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to
punitive damages as a matter of law. First, without tort damages, punitive
damages cannot be awarded. Here, Defendant argues that because Plaintiff cannot
recover any damages for bad faith, punitive damages are inapplicable. Second,
Defendant argues that no evidence exists establishing punitive damages as
Plaintiff cannot prove malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
“If the plaintiff is going to prevail on a
punitive damages claim, he or she can only do so by establishing malice,
oppression or fraud by clear and convincing evidence. Thus, any evidence
submitted in response to a motion for summary adjudication must necessarily
meet that standard.” (Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.) Under Civil Code § 3294, ““Malice” means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. “Oppression” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights. “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
 
The Court finds that while there are triable issues of
material fact as to whether Defendant breached the contract and the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, Defendant has met their burden that no
evidence exists that would allow for punitive damages. While Defendant may have
breached the contract by denying the claim, Plaintiff has failed to raise a
material issue of disputed fact that Defendant acted with fraud, oppression
or  malice. The evidence as stated does
not rise to the level required for punitive damages. 
 
 
Thus, Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Punitive Damages is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion for Summary Judgment
and/or Summary Adjudication is DENIED except as to the Punitive Damages which
is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              March 13, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


