  Case Number:  21STCV14049    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  W R.
Z., BY AND THROUGH HER GUARDIAN AD LITEM AMY ZACKY V. HIGHTECH LOS ANGELES
MIDDLE SCHOOL, ET AL.
 
HIGHTECHLA’S MOTION
TO COMPEL ASCEND HEALTHCARE TO COMPLY WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS
RECORDS
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 15, 2023                          Trial
Date:       January  21, 2025 
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        21STCV14049
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant HighTechLA
Responding
Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of the alleged assault of
plaintiff at Hightech Los Angeles Middle School. Plaintiff alleges T.S. touched
R.Z. inappropriately on school premises and it was reported to the school’s
guidance counselor Mrs. Gold. R.Z. also reported the inappropriate touching to the
school principal, Ms. Garber. No action was taken by Mrs. Gold, Ms. Garber, or
any other school personnel.
 
On April 13, 2021, plaintiff filed a complaint against
Hightech Los Angeles Middle School; Rachel Garber; T.S.; and Parents of T.S.
asserting causes of action for: (1) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3) Negligence/
Negligent Supervision; (4) Negligence; (5) Battery; (6) Sexual Battery; (7) Assault;
(8) Liability Pursuant to Civil Code section 1714.1; (9) Parental Vicarious
Liability; (10) For Sexual Discrimination under Title IX of Education
Amendments of 1972 [20 U.S.C. § 1681, et seq.] for Sexual Harassment by Fellow
Student; (11) Violations of Personal Rights (Civil Code §51.9) and (12)
Violations of Bane Act against all Defendants: Civil Code § 52.1. 
 
On June 16, 2021, plaintiff dismissed defendant Rachel
Garber. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant
HighTechLA’s Motion to Compel Ascend Healthcare to Comply with Deposition
Subpoena for Business Records is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
HighTechLA moves the court for an order compelling Ascend
Healthcare to produce all business records and documents, including but not
limited to electronically stored information, pursuant to a deposition subpoena
for production of business records served on Ascend on August 16, 2023 together
with a proper affidavit from Ascend’s custodian (or other qualified witness).
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” “If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480(a).) “This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition...” (CCP §
2025.480(b).) 
 
Defendant
contends on February 24, 2022, Defendant, through its attorney/copy service
Hard Copy, served a request for records accompanied by an authorization from Plaintiff
and her mother on Ascend Healthcare seeking all records related to her care at
that facility. (Lynch Decl. ¶3.) On June 15, 2022, Defense counsel received
records from Hard Copy with what purported to be complete records from Ascend. (Lynch
Decl. ¶4.) Subsequently, Defense counsel sent the records obtained from Ascend
to Dr. Mohan Nair, M.D., a licensed neuropsychiatrist and member of the Boards
of Neurology and Psychology for review. (Lynch Decl. ¶5.) After that, Dr. Nair
advised defense counsel that the records received from Ascend were not complete
because they were missing numerous daily chart notes, therapy notes and other
records related to plaintiff’s extended stay at this facility. (Nair Decl.
¶¶3-5, Lynch Decl. ¶6.) Because defense counsel had not served a subpoena, she
had no mechanism to enforce compliance and thus on August 16, 2023, Defendant served
a Deposition Subpoena on Ascend Healthcare accompanied by an authorization
signed by Plaintiff asking for all documents related to the examination,
treatment and care provided to Plaintiff R.Z. (Lynch Decl. ¶¶7-8, Exh. A.) The
Deposition Subpoena required the records to be produced for copying by
September 4, 2023. (Lynch Decl. ¶8.) Ascend has not produced the documents
requested. (Lynch Decl. ¶¶9-12.) 
 
Because
the deposition subpoena seeks relevant materials to the action at hand and
Plaintiff has indicated they are also in support of the instant motion, the
court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel compliance. The court notes Ascend
has never provided objections and therefore, the 60-day deadline has not been
triggered and the motion is thus timely.   
 
Accordingly,
HighTechLA’s Motion to Compel Ascend Healthcare to Comply with Deposition
Subpoena for Business Records is GRANTED. 