 Case Number:  21STCV39146    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EUGEL NICOLEAU, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV39146  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 9, 2023   I. Background Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) moves to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Eugel Nicoleau (“Plaintiff”). Defendant initially took Plaintiff’s deposition on June 20, 2023, but the deposition was suspended after several hours when Plaintiff became ill. The parties agreed to resume the deposition at a later date. Defense counsel avers that Plaintiff’s counsel has not responded to repeated inquiries for alternate dates. Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s resumed deposition for August 7, 2023. After receiving no response or objection to the deposition notice, Plaintiff did not appear on August 7, 2023. Later that day, defense counsel declares Plaintiff’s counsel called him about another issue, and defense counsel took the opportunity to attempt to meet and confer about Plaintiff’s failure to appear for his deposition. Plaintiff’s counsel offered to produce Plaintiff on August 11, 2023. However, defense counsel was not available on that date, and requested alternate dates. No alternate dates have been provided. Defense counsel declares that if Plaintiff appears for his deposition and defense counsel is compensated for the cost incurred in attending the August 7, 2023 deposition, that Defendant will take the instant motion off-calendar. Any opposition was due on or before September 26, 2023; none was filed. As this motion has not been taken off-calendar, the Court is under the assumption that the deposition has not moved forward.   II. Motion to Compel Deposition CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. There is no evidence that Plaintiff’s counsel coordinated a new deposition date with defense counsel thereafter and no evidence that Plaintiff’s deposition has proceeded since the filing of the instant motion.  Therefore, the motion to compel is GRANTED. (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  Plaintiff is ordered to appear for deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Defendant.  Defendant must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).  III. Sanctions CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Defendant requests sanctions of $3,458.45. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)¿ The Court awards one hour for preparing the motion and one hour for appearing at the hearing at the requested rate of $250 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $500. The Court also awards the cost of the court reporter and affidavit of non-appearance for the August 7, 2023 deposition of $1,033.45. The Court declines to award any additional fees, especially for ambiguous fees that defense counsel “expects to incur.”  Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $1,533.45, within twenty (20) days.  Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   