 Case Number:  24STLC03430    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  26 
Alexander, Winton & Associates, Inc. v. America Chung Nam, LLC, et al
DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
 

TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant
America Chung Nam, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS
TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff Alexander,
Winton & Associates, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint in this action against Defendant America Chung Nam, LLC (“Defendant”).
On July 31 2024, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 7, 2024 and Defendant replied on October
18, 2024.  
 
Discussion
 
Allegations
in the Complaint
 
Plaintiff
is the assignee of claims owned by DC Logistics, LLC and Gulfstream Logistics,
Inc. (“the Assignors”), who are in the business of transporting goods. (Compl.,
¶2.) Defendant, the shipper/arranger and/or receiver/consignee, is a California
limited liability company with its principal place of business at 1163 Fairway
Drive, Walnut, California. (Id. at ¶3.) Defendant, through its agents Authentic
Logistics, LLC and CRST The Transportation Solution, Inc. (“the Brokers”),
hired the Assignors to transport goods from businesses in Arizona to the
receiver’s warehouses in California. (Id. at ¶7.) The loads are
evidenced by the rate confirmation and bills of lading. (Ibid.) Between
July 7, 2022 and November 9, 2022, the Assignors sent the Brokers invoices
identifying the service and the price Defendant agreed to pay for transporting
the loads. (Id. at ¶8 and Exh. 3.)
 
The Assignors
performed all obligations due to Defendant under the agreements by delivering
the loads as directed for the benefit of defendant. (Id. at Exh. 9 and Exh. 2.)
Despite demand, neither the Assignors nor Plaintiff have received payment for
the transportation service costs. (Id. at ¶10.) Due to Defendant’s
failure and refusal to perform its obligations as the shipper/arranger and/or receiver/consignee,
Defendant is liable to Plaintiff in the amount of $17,799.56, plus service
charges and reasonable attorney’s fees. (Id. at ¶¶11-12.) 
 
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Account Stated; and (3) Quantum Meruit. The Demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Lu Decl.,
¶2.) Defendant demurs on the grounds that the Complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action and uncertainty. (Citing
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e), (f).) As special demurrers are not
permitted in the limited jurisdiction court, the Court will not consider the
question for uncertainty. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) To the extent
Plaintiff attempts to classify the entire demurrer as one for uncertainty, the
Court is not persuaded. Plaintiff cites no authority for its contention that
“the use of exhibits to the complaint to argue that sufficient facts are not
alleged reveals that defendant’s actual argument is that the complaint is
uncertain or ambiguous.” (Opp., p. 2:24-25.) 
 
Plaintiff also mischaracterizes
the demurrer as one that doubts “whether defendant can tell from the exhibits
to the complaint whether it is a shipper or receiver.” (Id. at p.
2:23-24.) The demurrer, however, does not raise this doubt. Instead, it argues
that the allegation that Defendant is the shipper/arranger and/or
receiver/consignee of the cargo loads is contradicted by the attachments.
(Demurrer, p. 1:9-19.) The demurrer also points to cases involving general
demurrers sustained based on exhibits attached to the complaint. (Citing Stella
v. Asset Management Consultants, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 181, 193-194; Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Mgmt., Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App. 5th 1131, 1145-1146.)
Where the attached exhibits contradict the allegations, the exhibits will be
given precedence. (Brakke v. Economic Concepts, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.
App. 4th 761, 767.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not provide authority that
disputes this case law.
 
A review of the Complaint
confirms Defendant’s contention that they are not identified anywhere in the
rate confirmations or bills of lading attached to the Complaint. However, the
Court does not find this contradicts the allegations in the Complaint. The
Complaint alleges that Defendant is the shipper/arranger and/or receiver/consignee
of the cargo loads through its brokers. (Compl., ¶7 [emphasis added].)
The Complaint does not allege that the relationship between Defendant and its
brokers is evidenced by the attached documents. It only alleges that that cargo
loads are evidenced by those documents and that the invoices were sent from
Plaintiff’s assignors to the Brokers. (Id. at ¶8.) The documents,
therefore, do not contradict the allegation that Plaintiff is responsible for
payment as the shipper/arranger and/or receiver/consignee. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant America Chung Nam, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint
is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 