  Case Number:  21STCV05239    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Law Offices of Eric V. Luedtke to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil.
 
 
BACKGROUND
BEEMAK PLASTICS, LLC (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint for
Breach of Contract, alleging that SOUTH BAY SAFETY, INC. (Defendant) failed to
properly verify temporary employees, including for compliance with State and
Federal laws for employment eligibility, before such employees were placed to
work at Plaintiff.
Now, counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of
record for Defendant, by declaring that there have been breakdowns in the
attorney-client relationship and in communications, such that it is
unreasonably difficult to represent Defendant.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The determination whether to grant or deny an
attorney 's motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.” Lempert v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173. 
 
ANALYSIS
Here, the form notice, declaration, proposed order,
and proof of service sufficiently comply with the requirements for a motion to
be relieved as counsel. See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Further, moving counsel’s declaration shows
cognizable grounds for withdrawal: 

Breakdown
     in the attorney-client relationship (or personality clash). Estate of
     Falco v. Decker (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.
Client
     by conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out
     the employment effectively (e.g., noncooperation or
     noncommunication). Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4). Cf. Estate of Falco v. Decker, supra, 188 Cal
     App.3d p. 1020 (“We find no abuse of discretion in the trial court's
     implicit finding rejecting the contention that respondents' lack of
     cooperation justified appellants' withdrawal.”).

Finally, no opposing document has been filed showing
any prejudice to the client. See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16, subdiv. (d). 
 
CONCLUSION
Therefore, the Court grants the motion, and will sign
the proposed order submitted by counsel.