  Case Number:  22STCP01498    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
PARENTS UNITED FOR PUBLIC SCHOOL CHOICE,  


 
 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
22STCP01498




 
vs.
 
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR
  WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Parents United for Public School Choice petitions for a writ of mandate
directing respondents Los Angeles Unified School District, Board of Education
of the Los Angeles Unified School District, and Alberto Carvalho, in his
capacity as Superintendent to set aside the “LAUSD Policy and Procedures for
Charter Schools” and the “New Independent Charter School Petition Application Guide
for 2023-2024.” 
 
Petitioner
also petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondents to produce records related
to the submission, acceptance, and processing of charter petitions.
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
The Charter Schools Act
 
This petition concerns
the requirements for charter school petitions submitted to the Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD” or “District”) and LAUSD’s review of such
petitions. In
enacting the Charter Schools Act of 1992 (Ed. Code § 47600, et seq.)
(“CSA”),[1]
the Legislature intended “to provide opportunities for teachers, parents,
pupils, and community members to establish and maintain schools that operate
independently from the existing school district structure.” (§ 47601.) “Charter
schools are public schools ‘“free from most state laws pertaining uniquely to
school districts.”’ [Citation.] The freedom granted to charter schools is
intended to promote choice and innovation, and to stimulate ‘competition within
the public school system.’ [Citation.]” (California Charter Schools Assn. v.
Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1221, 1228.) As stated by the CSA:
 
In reviewing petitions
for the establishment of charter schools pursuant to this section, the
chartering authority shall be guided by the intent of the Legislature that
charter schools are and should become an integral part of the California
educational system and that the establishment of charter schools should be
encouraged. The governing board of the school district shall grant a charter
for the operation of a school under this part if it is satisfied that granting
the charter is consistent with sound educational practice and with the
interests of the community in which the school is proposing to locate. The
governing board of the school district shall consider the academic needs of the
pupils the school proposes to serve.
 
(§ 47605(c).)
 
The CSA further provides
that school districts shall not deny charter petitions “unless it makes written
factual findings, specific to the particular petition, setting forth specific
facts to support one or more of” eight enumerated findings, including that the
“charter school presents an unsound educational program for the pupils to be
enrolled in the charter school,” that the “petitioners are demonstrably
unlikely to successfully implement the program set forth in the petition,” and
that the “petition does not contain reasonably comprehensive descriptions of
all of the” topics set forth in subdivision (c)(5). (§ 47605(c)(1-8).) 
 
B.          
Policy, Amended Policy,
and the Community Impact Assessment Requirement
 
On August 11, 2020,
LAUSD’s Board of Education (“Board”) adopted the “Policy and Procedures for Charter
Schools” (“Policy”), which was further amended on January 25, 2022. (AR 1, 81.)
The Policy imposed a requirement to “submit a Letter of Intent prior to
submitting their petition” that addressed 12 different topics (AR 90-91.) “If
the petition is deemed complete at the intake appointment” by Charter Schools
Division (“CSD”) staff, “the CSD will commence its review and analysis of the
petition.” (AR 91.) 
 
On June 20, 2023, the Board
adopted a second amended Policy (“Amended Policy”) in response to the ruling of the Court (Hon. Mary H.
Strobel) in Equitas Academy Charter School v. LAUSD, LASC Case No.
22STCP01617 (“Equitas”). (Cole-Gutiérrez Decl. ¶ 9; RJN ¶ 2; AR 216-315,
13926-29.) In Equitas, the Court held that the District’s refusal to
accept a charter petition on the basis of a staff member’s objection to the
completeness of the submitted petition during an “intake meeting” was unlawful
and in conflict with the CSA. (AR 13919-24.)
 
The Amended Policy
eliminated authority previously vested in CSD staff to refuse to “receive” a
charter petition not in compliance with the Policy at the point of intake. (AR 309-14
[table prepared by LAUSD setting forth changes in redline].) Even though the
Amended Policy requires the CSD to receive a charter petition, it still imposes
requirements for the petition to be deemed complete and eligible for approval.
 
In particular, LAUSD
requires charter petitions to contain a “Community Impact Assessment” (“CIA”)
“[t]o assist in the determination whether the proposed new charter school is
demonstrably likely or unlikely to serve the interests of the entire community
in which the school proposed to locate.” (AR 239.) The CIA instructions and template
requires charter applicants to engage in a study encompassing all existing
District and charter schools operating within the “Community of Schools”
identified by LAUSD, “and neighborhoods within a three-mile radius from the
location identified by the petitioners of the proposed new charter school,” i.e.,
encompassing potentially hundreds of schools over more than 28 square miles.
(AR 454-73, 477-80.) Among other requirements, the Amended Policy requires that,
with respect to the CIA:
 
• “Petitioners must provide documented evidence of
transparent, inclusive, and active community engagement activities…within the
targeted community ….” (AR 239.)
 
• “The [CIA] is to be complete at the time of
submission…. Petitioners are to include publicly disclosable
information/documentation of the stakeholders’ responses ….” (AR 239.)
 
• “[T]he petitioner must include a specific
description, with supporting documentation, of each identified site’s ability
to accommodate the petitioner’s enrollment projection in its first year of
operation and each subsequent year until reaching full enrollment capacity. The
petitioner shall provide written evidence of its facilities research in the
target community ….” (AR 240.)
 
• “The petitioner must also describe how its
facilities plan serves the interests of the entire community.” (AR 240.)
 
• “The petitioner shall assess the duplication of
existing programs currently offered by existing District schools and charter
schools in LAUSD as a whole.” (AR 241.)
 
The Board tasks CSD staff
to “examine the reasonableness and comprehensiveness of the petitioner’s
Community Impact Assessment.” (AR 242.) Per the Amended Policy, a petitioner
“must” provide a CIA. The requirement for the CIA is set forth in the section
of the Amended Policy titled “Criteria for Evaluating New Petitions,” which are
described as “factors staff will consider in determining whether to make an
approval or denial recommendation to the LAUSD Board.” (AR 225-26, 229, 237.)
The Amended Policy provides that “Staff will assess whether the charter school
is demonstrably likely or unlikely to serve the interests of the entire community.”
(AR 265.) 
 
C.          
Staff Guide and Checklist
 
CSD staff also publishes
a “New Independent Charter School Petition Application Guide,” last updated on
July 12, 2023 (the “Staff Guide”). (AR 316.) The Staff Guide states that it
“provides specific information regarding LAUSD charter school petition
application requirements.” (AR 317.)
 
In addition to specific
implementation of the policy discussed above, the Staff Guide “provides information
regarding both the content and format of the required documents that are
expected to be submitted as part of an LAUSD new independent charter school
petition application.” (AR 321.) Those requirements include that “[t]he
petition and any supporting documents are expected to be consistent with the FSDRL
[Federal, State, and District Required Language]” (AR 322) and that, for a
charter to be considered “reasonably comprehensive” by LAUSD, it must address fifteen
elements specified by LAUSD, including the educational program, measures by
which pupil progress toward outcomes will be assessed, and employee
qualifications. (AR 321-54.) The Staff Guide also requires submission of teacher
resumes for all teachers signing the petition (AR 349-50), the board resolution
of the proposed charter school that authorizes submission of the charter school
petition application (AR350), and a completed Due Diligence Questionnaire and Acknowledgement
Form. (AR 352; see also AR474 [resume requirements.]) It also requires charter
school petitioners to identify their enrollment capacity (AR 324-25), which
LAUSD enforces as an enrollment cap (see, e.g., AR 13901-07).
 
The District also publishes
a “PETITION APPLICATION INTAKE CHECKLIST” (“Checklist”) setting forth “expected
application components” identified in the Policy and Staff Guide, e.g.,
letter of intent, bank account statements, lottery form, due diligence
questionnaires, and Community Impact Assessment. (AR 355-57; see also AR
322 [Staff Guide refers to “New Independent Charter School Petition Application
Intake Checklist”].) On the District’s website, such documents are described as
“required documents.” (AR 475.)
 
D.          
District Required
Language
 
The District sets forth
its so-called Federal, State, and District Language (“FSDRL”) in a separated
Board-adopted document, as last revised on August 11, 2020. (AR 358-401.) The
document includes more than forty pages of content and terms that “must be
included in a comprehensive independent charter school petition” and instructs
that charter school petitioners may not “add, delete, or change any provision
of the FSDRL.” (AR 360.) The FSDRL provides that petitioners must include
assurances that disputes between the charter school and LAUSD shall be subject
to binding private arbitration before the AAA. (AR 386.) If the charter school
is a high school, the FSDRL provides that “before Charter School graduates its
first class of students,” it shall obtain and maintain accreditation from the Western
Association of Schools and Colleges. (AR 363.)
 
E.          
Public Records Request
 
On June 21, 2023,
petitioner requested seven categories of records from the District. (AR 687-88.)
LAUSD’s search for, and rolling disclosure of, records responsive to petitioner’s
CPRA request, remains ongoing. (Luther Decl. ¶ 14; Martinez Decl. ¶ 14.) LAUSD
has disclosed over 35,000 pages of records to date, as follows: 
 
·        
August 7, 2023: 962 pages
of records disclosed. (AR 689; 1903-2864) 
·        
November 3, 2023: 1,802
pages of records disclosed (AR 710-12; 2865-4669)
·        
December 4, 2023: 993
pages of records disclosed (AR 713-14; 4670-5662)
·        
January 4, 2024: 3,129
pages of records disclosed (AR 715-16; 5663-8791)
·        
February 5, 2024: 4,860
pages of records disclosed (AR 717-18; 8792-13657)
·        
March 5, 2024: 6,155
pages of records disclosed (AR 13938-20094)
·        
March 29, 2024: 6,660
pages of records disclosed (AR 20095-26756)
·        
April 30, 2024: 11,549
pages of records disclosed (Hamor Supp. Decl. ¶ 3)
 
(Martinez Decl. ¶ 15.)
LAUSD’s CPRA Response remains pending and in-progress, with records being
disclosed on or about every 30 days; LAUSD contends the next batch of records
will be disclosed on or before June 6, 2024. (Hamor Supp. Decl. ¶ 3 &
Ex. A.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
April 25, 2022, petitioner Parents
United for Public School Choice filed a Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate.
On August 2, 2022, during a trial setting conference, the Court (Hon. Mary H.
Strobel) stayed the third cause of action for “Permanent Injunction – Code Civ.
Proc. § 526a” and the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
            On September 19, 2023, the Court
granted petitioner’s Motion for Leave to Amend Petition. On September 20, 2023,
petitioner filed a First Amended Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate. 
 
            On
March 4, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On April 2, 2024, respondents
filed an opposition. On April 18, 2024, petitioner filed a reply. The Court has
received an electronic copy of the administrative record and a hard copy of the
joint appendix. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
A.          
CCP § 1085
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“When
a party seeks review of an administrative decision pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085, judicial review is limited to examining the agency
proceedings to ascertain whether the agency's action has been arbitrary,
capricious or lacking entirely in evidentiary support, or whether the agency
failed to follow the proper procedure and give notices required by law. And,
where the case involves the interpretation of a statute or ordinance, our
review of the trial court’s decision is de novo.” (Ideal Boat & Camper
Storage v. County of Alameda (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 301, 311, citing Pomona
Police Officers' Assn. v. City of Pomona (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 584.)
In independently reviewing legal questions, “[a]n administrative agency’s
interpretation does not bind judicial review but it is entitled to consideration
and respect.” (Housing Partners I, Inc. v. Duncan (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th
1335, 1343.) 
 
An
agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code
§ 664.) In a CCP § 1085 writ petition, the petitioner generally bears the
burden of proof. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State
Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)         
 
B.          
California Public Records Act
 
Pursuant to the
California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) (Gov. Code § 7921.000, et seq.),[2]
individual citizens have a right to access government records. In enacting the
CPRA, the California Legislature declared that “access to information
concerning the conduct of the people's business is a fundamental and necessary
right of every person in this state.” (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
Cal. Const. Art. I, Sec. 3(b); County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
“[E]very person has a
right to inspect any public record” of a state or local agency subject to
statutory exemptions. (Gov. Code § 7922.530(a); see also Gov. Code §
7920.510(h) [definition of “local agency” includes agent of a city].) The
California Constitution mandates that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while
any statute “that limits the right of access” must be “narrowly construed.” (See
Cal. Const. Art. I, Sec. 3(b)(2); see also Nat’l Lawyers Guild v. City
of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.) The CPRA “does not allow limitations
on access to a public record based upon the purpose for which the record is
being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code
§ 7921.300.)
 
Petitioner bears the
burden of proof and persuasion in a mandate proceeding brought under CCP §
1085. (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995)
10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.) “To establish an agency has a duty to disclose under
[the CPRA], the petitioner must show that: (1) the record ‘qualif[ies] as [a]
‘public record[ ]’ …; and (2) the record is ‘in the possession of the agency.’”
(Anderson-Barker v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538.) “Whether a
record falls within the statutory definition of a ‘public record’ involves a
‘distinct inquiry’ from whether the agency is in possession of that record….
The duty to disclose applies only when the petitioner has satisfied both
elements.” (Id. at 539.) 
 
CPRA exemptions must be
narrowly construed, and the agency bears the burden of showing that a specific
exemption applies. (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement System v.
Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.) A public agency also has
the burden to demonstrate that it properly withheld records on the grounds they
are non-responsive to a CPRA request or do not constitute public records. (ACLU
of Northern Cal. v. Sup. Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83-86.) ““Because
the agency has full knowledge of the contents of the withheld records and the
requester has only the agency's affidavits and descriptions of the documents,
its affidavits must be specific enough to give the requester ‘a meaningful
opportunity to contest’ the withholding of the documents.” (Id. at 83.) 
 
 
IV.     Evidentiary Matters
 
          All requests for judicial notice are GRANTED. All of respondents’
evidentiary objections are OVERRULED.
 
 


V.      Writ
of Mandate Pursuant to CCP § 1085 (First, Second, and Fifth Causes of Action)
 
A.          
The
District is Not Allowed to Reject a Petition as Incomplete for Any Reason
 
Petitioner
contends that the District cannot reject a charter petition as incomplete due
to: (1) lack of a Community Impact Assessment, as required by the operative
Policy, as amended on June 20, 2023; (2) lack
of documents and information set forth in the Staff Guide and Checklist; or (3)
lack of district-required
language (“DRL”).  
 
            As acknowledged by petitioner,
however, the District amended its Policy to require the District to receive a
charter petition that contains a certification of completeness, as required by
section 47605(b). (AR 245, 310.) The District, therefore, no longer has a
policy to reject petitions for lack of the documents and information required
under the Policy, Staff Guide, Checklist, and DRL. Notwithstanding petitioner’s
contention to the contrary (Opening Br. at 14:4-10), the District is not
imposing additional requirements at intake.[3]
 
B.          
The
District is Not Preempted from Imposing Certain Requirements for Charter
Approval
 
Petitioner
contends that the Policy, Staff Guide, DRL, and Checklist are preempted by the
Charter Schools Act.[4]
In particular, petitioner objects to the requirement of a Community Impact
Assessment. For the reasons stated below, the Court finds that the District’s
requirements during review of charter petitions are not preempted by the CSA.
 
“‘Under
article XI, section 7 of the California Constitution, ‘[a] county or city may
make and enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary, and other
ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general laws.’ If otherwise
valid local legislation conflicts with state law, it is preempted by such law
and is void. A conflict exists if the local legislation duplicates,
contradicts, or enters an area fully occupied by general law, either expressly
or by legislative implication. Local legislation is ‘duplicative’ of general
law when it is coextensive therewith. Similarly, local legislation is ‘contradictory’
to general law when it is inimical thereto. Finally, local legislation enters
an area that is ‘fully occupied’ by general law when the Legislature has
expressly manifested its intent to ‘fully occupy’ the area, or when it has
impliedly done so in light of one of the following indicia of intent:’….” (San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. City of Carlsbad (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 785,
792-793, quoting Sherwin–Williams Co. v. City of Los Angeles (1993) 4
Cal.4th 893, 897–98.)
 
Here,
the District’s requirements neither duplicate nor contradict the CSA.  Nor has the Legislature expressly manifested
its intent to fully occupy the review of charter petitions.   
 
The
Legislature is charged with determining and forming policy and fixing a primary
standard. (Wilson v. State Bd. of Educ. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1146.)
Afterward, the Legislature may “confer upon executive or administrative
officers the ‘power to fill up the details’ by prescribing administrative rules
and regulations to promote the purposes of the legislation and to carry it into
effect.” (Ibid., quoting State Bd. of Education v. Honig (1993)
13 Cal.App.4th 720, 750 [Honig].) “In the educational setting,
legislatures rarely control public school operations directly, but delegate
authority which permits state, regional, and local education agencies to
establish school policies and practices.” (Honig, 13 Cal.App.4th at 750.)

 
The
Legislature has declared a policy of encouraging the establishment of charter
schools, which are and should be an “integral part of the California
educational system.” (§ 47605(c).) The Legislature also “fixed standards for
charter schools, as detailed in the numerous petition and operational
requirements set forth in section 47605.” (Wilson, 75 Cal.App.4th at 1147.) 
 
Having
determined and formed its policy regarding charter schools and fixed a primary
standard, the Legislature permissibly delegated the establishment of policies
and practices regarding the review of charter petitions to the District.
Section 35160 states: “[T]he governing board of any school district may
initiate and carry on any program, activity, or may otherwise act in any manner
which is not in conflict with or inconsistent with, or preempted by, any law
and which is not in conflict with the purposes for which school districts are
established.” The Legislature clarified section 35160 by stating that school
districts “should have the flexibility to create their own unique solutions,”
as they “have diverse needs unique to their individual communities and
programs.” (§ 35160.1(a), (c).)
 
In
section 47605(c), the Legislature set forth grounds on which the District may deny
a charter school petition. The statute, however, does not prohibit requirements
that the District may impose for charter petitions. With respect to the
requirement to include a CIA in a charter petition, the District may deny a
petition if it sets forth facts specific to the petition supporting a finding
that the “charter school is demonstrably unlikely to serve the interests of the
entire community in which the school is proposing to locate.” (§ 47605(c)(7).) “Analysis
of this finding shall include consideration of the fiscal impact of the
proposed charter school. A written factual finding under this paragraph shall
detail specific facts and circumstances that analyze and consider the following
factors: [¶] (A) The extent to which the proposed charter school would
substantially undermine existing services, academic offerings, or programmatic
offerings. [¶] (B) Whether the proposed charter school would duplicate a
program currently offered within the school district and the existing program
has sufficient capacity for the pupils proposed to be served within reasonable
proximity to where the charter school intends to locate.” (§ 47605(c)(7)(A-B).)
The District shall grant a charter petition “if it is satisfied that granting
the charter is consistent with sound educational practice and with the
interests of the community in which the school is proposing to locate.” (§
47605(c).) 
 
Nothing
in section 47605 preempts the District from imposing requirements for charter
petitions with respect to the review of the petitions. More to the point, the
District is not prohibited from requiring charter applicants to provide
information relevant to whether the proposed charter school would serve the
interests of the community in which the school is proposing to locate, as
contemplated in section 47605(c)(7). The District is also not prohibited from
requiring charter applicants to address fifteen elements specified by LAUSD,
including the educational program, measure by which pupil progress toward
outcomes will be measured, and employee qualifications. (AR 321-54; see §
47065(c)(5) [school district may deny petition due to lack of “reasonably
comprehensive descriptions” with respect to specified topics, including educational
program, method by which pupil progress toward outcomes will be measured, and qualifications
to be met by individuals to be employed by charter school.) 
 
The
Court’s conclusion that there is no preemption does not conflict with Judge
Strobel’s prior ruling in Equitas. Equitas “concern[ed] the statutory
process by which the governing board of a school district ‘receives’ and acts
upon a petition for establishment of a charter school within the school district.”
(AR 13914.) The referenced statutory process is governed by section 47605(b),
which explicitly provides a ministerial duty for the district to “receive” a
petition upon certain conditions being met, stating: “A petition is deemed
received by the governing board of the school district for purposes of
commencing the timelines described in this subdivision on the day the
petitioner submits a petition to the district office, along with a signed
certification that the petitioner deems the petition to be complete.” (AR
13914.) In Equitas, even though the petitioner submitted a signed
certification of completeness stating that it deemed the charter petition to be
complete, the District had rejected the petition for review because the
petitioner did not include all necessary components of a CIA, including
evidence of community engagement with all required stakeholder groups. (AR
13915, 13917.) 
 
Judge
Strobel found that the plain language of section 47605(b) mandated just two
requirements for a charter petition to be deemed received: (1) submission of
the petition to the district office and (2) submission of a signed
certification that the petitioner deems the petition to be complete. (AR
13921.) In light of section 47605(b)’s clear requirements, Judge Strobel concluded
that it preempted the District’s policy that permitted Charter Schools Division
staff to deem a petition not complete even if the two requirements of section
47605(b) were met. (AR 13923-24.) 
 
Contrary
to Equitas, the instant First Amended Petition concerns section
47605(c). Subdivision (c) does not prohibit the District from imposing certain
requirements for its review of charter petitions. This contrasts with
subdivision (b), which sets forth express requirements for a petition to be
deemed received. Accordingly, there is no contradiction between what the Policy
requires in terms of a CIA and the requirements of subdivision (c), which
contains no express manifestation of intent by the Legislature to limit what a
school district may require to assist in its review of charter petitions for
purposes of subdivision (c).
 
Petitioner
contends that the Legislature manifested its intent to fully occupy the field
for the petitioning process, citing the portion of Wilson which states: “[C]harter
schools are strictly creatures of statute. From how charter schools come into
being, to who attends and who can teach, to how they are governed and
structured, to funding, accountability and evaluation—the Legislature has
plotted all aspects of their existence.” (Wilson, 75 Cal.App.4th at 1135.)
Petitioner takes this statement out of context. The Court of Appeal made that
pronouncement in response to the appellants’ argument that an assembly bill
which modified the CSA “amount[ed] to abdication of any state control over
essential educational functions, e.g., control over curriculum, textbooks,
educational focus, teaching methods and operations of charter schools.” (Ibid.)
The Court of Appeal disagreed, finding that the Legislature is ultimately
responsible for all aspects of education, including charter schools, even
though it delegates the local operations to school districts. (Ibid.) Notably,
the Wilson court acknowledged that school districts can promulgate
policies and practices to effectuate the CSA. (Id. at 1146.) The Wilson
court did not discuss whether section 47605 preempted the ability of school
districts to supplement the statute with policies and procedures that do not
contradict the CSA. 
 
            Petitioner also cites United
Teachers of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2012) 54
Cal.4th 504 (UTLA) for the assertion that “section 47605 establishes a
comprehensive process for approval of charter petitions, spelling out precisely
what is expected of a charter applicant.” (UTLA, 54 Cal.4th at 526.) UTLA
is inapposite. UTLA held that, in a case concerning enforcement of
collective bargaining provisions pursuant to the Educational Employment
Relations Act, a petition to compel arbitration should be denied when the provisions
sought to be enforced directly conflict with the Education Code. (Id. at
520.) UTLA also held that “the approval or denial of a charter petition
may not be controlled by a collective bargaining agreement.” (Id. at
524.) The California Supreme Court explained that then-section 47605(b) (now
subdivision (c)) set forth the exclusive grounds for denying a charter school
petition. (Ibid.) 
 
When
the high court stated that section 47605 “spell[ed] out precisely what is
expected of a charter applicant” (ibid.), it referred to how then-subdivision
(b) “prescribe[d] the manner by which a school district governing board is to
approve or deny a charter petition” and the “grounds on which a governing board
can deny a petition.” (Id. at 522-23.) UTLA did not discuss whether
a school district can enact rules and policies in furtherance of making those
determinations. 
 
            To the extent that section 47605(c)
is ambiguous with respect to what school districts can require from charter applicants,
legislative history supports the assertion that the District can supplement
section 47065 with rules and regulations, so long as they do not conflict with
the CSA. (See People v. Arias (2008) 45 Cal.4th 169, 177 [“If the
statute is ambiguous, we may consider a variety of extrinsic aids, including
legislative history, the statute’s purpose, and public policy”].)
 
With
respect to the CIA requirement, section 47065(c)(7) was added through Assembly
Bill 1505 (“AB 1505”), which “allowed school districts to deny a petition to
create or expand a charter school if the charter school is demonstrably
unlikely to serve the interests of the entire community in which the school is
proposing to locate.” (AR 13653.) The author of AB 1505 explained that the bill
“gives school districts greater authority to choose which charter schools are approved
in their community.” (AR 13656.) The author also explained that AB 1505 “ensures that charter schools are
authorized and overseen by school districts and county offices of education,
who are the elected officials that best understand the educational needs of
their local students, thus improving proper oversight.” (AR 13656.) While AB 1505
references a “state prescribed application process” that charter applicants
must follow (AR 13657), the bill does not prescribe the requirements of the
application. Pursuant to sections 35160 and 35160.1, the District may prescribe
such requirements. 
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
finds that the District’s requirements are not preempted by the CSA. Accordingly,
petitioner fails to demonstrate that it is entitled to mandamus relief. 


 
C.          
Void
for Vagueness
 
“[T]he
Fourteenth Amendment due process guarantee against vagueness requires that laws
provide adequate warning to people of ordinary intelligence of the conduct that
is prohibited, and standards to protect against arbitrary and discriminatory
enforcement.” (Concerned Dog Owners of California v. City of Los Angeles
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1219, 1231.)
 
Petitioner
contends that the Policy is void for vagueness because the District’s
requirements, including the CIA and DRL, “fail[ ] to put charter petitioners on
notice of what is required of them for their charter petition to be deemed
complete
and
leaves it to staff to exercise discretion.” (Opening Br. at 18:18-19:1.) The
Court disagrees.
 
            Petitioner argues that, because the
District cannot refuse to deem a petition received due to lack of a CIA, the
lack of a CIA cannot be the basis for denial of a petition. This argument
ignores the distinction subdivisions (b) and (c) of section 47605. With respect
to when a charter petition must be deemed received, subdivision (b) does not
allow any discretion to reject a petition for review when the applicant submits
the petition to the district office with a certification that the petitioner
deems the petition to be complete. However, for the reasons stated above, subdivision
(c) allows the governing board of a school district to exercise discretion to promulgate
rules that aid in the staff’s review and recommendation for approval/denial of
charter petitions.  The Policy at issue
here is likewise clear that a petition received by the District is nonetheless subject
to the requirement of a CIA when the District undertakes its review of the
received petition for approval.  (See
AR 239, 309-14.) 
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the
Policy is not void for vagueness.
 
VI.     California Public Records Act (Sixth Cause
of Action)
 
            The sixth cause of action concerns
petitioner’s request for the following categories of documents: 
 
1.   
All Writings informing,
training, and/or directing District employees assigned to the Charter Schools
Division (“Employees”) on expectations, procedures, practices, and/or standards
for accepting and processing new charter petitions, requests for material revisions
of charter petitions, and/or charter renewals (“Charter Petitions”).
 
2.   
All email communications
provided by Employees to any person(s), inclusive of entities (“Person”), that
describe or relate to the submittal, acceptance, or processing of a Charter Petition.
For clarity, this request covers email correspondence to or from Employees, to or
from charter petitioners wherein Employees provide deadlines, intake schedules,
or ask for clarification on any aspect of a Charter Petition.
 
3.   
All Writings that the
District, Employee, or other person presented as a “Community Impact
Assessment” to the District in connection with Charter Petitions.
 
4.   
All Writings to or from
Employees that discuss or relate to Writings that the District, Employee, or
other person presented as a “Community Impact Assessment” to the District in
connection with Charter Petitions.
 
5.   
All Writings that relate
to the development and/or revision of any current or prior policy adopted by
the District Board regarding Charter Petitions.
 
6.   
All Writings that relate
to the development and/or revision of any operative or prior staff guide
regarding Charter Petitions.
 
7.   
All Writings that relate
to the development and/or revision of any operative or prior Charter Petition
intake checklist used by the District or Employees, including copies of any
such checklists.
 
(AR 687-88.) In its
Opposition, the District does not argue that the requested
documents are not public records under the CPRA. (Opp. at 26:5 [“LAUSD does not
dispute its disclosure obligations”].) Moreover, while counsel has seemingly
identified exemptions (Martinez Decl. ¶ 17), the District has not specifically
argued in the opposition that an exemption applies to any of the requested
documents. Accordingly, the District does not meet its burden to show that a specific exemption applies. (Sacramento
County Employees’ Retirement System, 195 Cal.App.4th at 453 [“Creating a
general right of access subject to exemptions places the burden on the agency
to show that a particular public record is exempt from disclosure”].)
 
Rather, respondents
contend that the CPRA cause of action is premature.  That contention is hard to accept, as the
public record requests have been pending since June 21, 2023. (AR 687.) Respondents
cite no authority allowing for delay of adjudication of a properly stated CPRA
claim. 
 
Because the District has not met its burden to
demonstrate that the requests do not concern public records or that any
exemption applies, the discussion below focuses on whether petitioner met its
burden to demonstrate that the District is in possession of the requested
documents. (Anderson-Barker, 31
Cal.App.5th at 538-39.)
 
            With respect to Request No. 1 for “[a]ll
Writings informing, training, and/or directing District employees…on
expectations, procedures, practices, and/or standards for accepting and
processing new charter petitions, requests for material revisions of charter
petitions, and/or charter renewals,” a representative of the District testified
during deposition regarding the existence of the following templates: (1) a
template, called the Recommendation Meeting Protocol, that guide the CSD staff’s
review and assessments of charter petitions (AR912:18-913:17), (2) a template
that guides staff’s review and assessment of CIAs (AR915:22-917:15), and (3) a
template that guides staff’s preparation of a board report to the District
Board
regarding
action on a charter petition (AR 914:7-915:11.) The templates appear to be
responsive to Request No. 1 and must be produced. 
 
            With respect to Request No. 4 for
writings that discuss CIAs, petitioner contends that the District is improperly
withholding completed copies of the templates. However, the portion of the
deposition cited by petitioner does not reference any completed templates. (AR
900:16-25.) When asked about the process of evaluating CIAs after they are
received, the District’s representative stated: “There some [sic] are
documents that are currently under review by our inside counsel to determine if
they’re privileged.” (AR 900:21-25.) Consequently, the Court cannot
specifically order the production of completed templates. However, to the extent
that there are completed templates concerning the staff’s review and assessment
of CIAs, they are responsive to Request No. 4 and are subject to production.
 
            Petitioner also contends that the
District did not produce non-public, internal-use-only checklists governing the
intake, routing, and authorization process other than for the 2020-21 year. (See
AR 980-84.) However, petitioner merely surmises that similar checklists for
other academic years must exist. (Opening Br. at 23:1-2 [“Petitioner assumes
that other similar checklists exist for prior and subsequent academic years and
they have not been produced”].)
 
            Petitioner also contends that the
District is withholding public feedback related to the Policy, which would be
responsive to Request No. 5, but petitioner does not demonstrate that such
writings exist. While the Policy as amended on June 20, 2023 references “input
from various stakeholders, including parents and staff from District and
charter schools, community members, and representatives from Labor
organizations, charter school organizations, and community organizations” (AR
217), the Policy does not state that the input was in writing or in some other
record format that would be in the District’s possession. 
 
            Petitioner does not present any
other argument as to specific documents that the District is purportedly
withholding. Nevertheless, the District acknowledges that production is not yet
complete. Accordingly, the Court will issue a writ indicating that production
shall produce documents responsive to petitioner’s public records request on
May 31, June 30, July 31, and August 31, 2024, with production to be completed
by August 31, 2024. 
 
            For the foregoing reason, the First
Amended Petition with respect to the sixth cause of action is GRANTED.
 
VII.    Conclusion
 
The
First Amended Petition seeking a writ of mandate with respect to the first,
second, and fifth causes of action is DENIED.
 
The petition is GRANTED with respect to the CPRA
claim in the sixth cause of action. Respondent Los Angeles Unified School
District shall produce the following templates: (1) the Recommendation Meeting Protocol that guides
the Charter Schools Division staff’s review and assessments of charter petitions;
(2) the template that guides staff’s review and assessment of Community Impact Assessments;
and (3) the template that guides staff’s preparation of a board report to the
District Board regarding action on a charter petition. Respondent District
shall also produce documents responsive to petitioner’s June 21, 2023 public
records request on May 31, June 30, July 31, and August 31 of 2024, with
production to be completed by August 31, 2024.
 
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), petitioner shall
prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed writ of mandate in accordance
herewith.
 
            With respect to the third and fourth
causes of action, pursuant to the local rules, which designate that Department
82 is a specialized Writs and Receivers department and not a general civil
department, only a cause of action for writ of mandate is properly assigned to
this department. (LASC Local Rules 2.8(d) and 2.9.) Local Rules 2.8(d) and 2.9
do not include a claim for injunctive relief or declaratory relief as a special
proceeding assigned to the writs departments.
 
At
the hearing, the parties should address whether the Court’s ruling on the
first, second, and fifth causes of action resolve the third and fourth causes
of action or whether this matter should be referred to Department 1 for
reassignment to a direct calendar court for the remaining causes of action. 
 
 


