 Case Number:  23STCP03872    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  85 
Douglas Peter Richter v. California
Department of Industrial Relations, et al., 23STCP03872 
 

Tentative decision on motion for
reconsideration:  denied




 



Petitioner Douglas Peter Richter (“Richter”) moves for
reconsideration of the court’s June 27, 2024 order sustaining the demurrer of Respondents California Department of Industrial
Relations, Department of Labor Standards Enforcement (“DLSE”), Lilia
Garcia-Brower (“Garcia-Brower”), Ethera Clemons (“Clemons”), Wendy Corleto
(“Coreleto”), Cristina Zamora (“Zamora”), and Karen Betancur (“Betancur”)
to the Second Amended Petition (“SAP”) without leave to amend. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
opposition (no reply was filed), and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. The SAP[1]
            Petitioner
Richter filed the operative SAP against Respondents and Real
Parties-in-Interest Ariela Lousky (“Lousky”), Universal Home Design, Inc.
(“Design”), and Jonathan L. Greber, Esq., on April 18, 2024, alleging seven
causes of action in traditional
mandamus: (1) the first cause of action alleges a violation of procedural due
process, principally because the hearing officer was biased; (2) The second
cause of action alleges that Respondents violated the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”) by failing to provide a court reporter as an accommodation
for his disability of autism; (3) The third cause of action alleges that
Respondents violated Government Code section 11135 by discriminating against
him based on his race, sexual orientation, and citizenship status; (4) the
fourth cause of action alleges that Respondents failed to affirmatively further
fair housing, employment, and community development under Government Code
section 8899.50; (5) the fifth cause of action alleges that Respondents
violated the California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) by denying him access to
records; (6) the sixth cause of action alleges that the Labor Commissioner
violated the Equal Protection Clause in its application of AB 5; and (7) the
seventh cause of action again alleges that the Labor Commissioner violated Equal
Protection on similar grounds as the sixth.
            The
SAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
Richter was Lousky’s tenant starting in May
2020.  SAP at 9.  His housing needed repairs.  Id.  Because
Lousky could not find an adequate repair person or electrician, she agreed to
let Richter perform the repairs.  SAP at 9-10.  Richter
later deducted rent based on those repairs.  SAP at 10.
On May 3, 2022, Richter filed a wage claim with the Labor
Commissioner alleging that he was Lousky’s employee and that she did not fully
pay him for his work.  A telephonic hearing was held by a hearing
officer on August 2, 2023.  SAP at 2.  Before Richter joined the hearing, Lousky’s
counsel told the hearing officer that he sent exhibits via
email.  SAP at 21.  The hearing officer and Lousky’s’
counsel discussed whether the office had received the exhibits.  Id.
The hearing officer informed Lousky’s counsel that she may not have received
some exhibits, but counsel could present them during the hearing.  Id.  Richter
then joined the audio call. Id.
During the hearing, Richter testified and cross-examined
Lousky. SAP at 10, 23. The hearing officer interrupted his testimony and his
cross-examination at times, based on relevance. SAP at 10, 23-24.  The hearing officer informed Richter at the
hearing that she would have to make credibility determinations. SAP at 24.
Following the issuance of the hearing officer’s decision (“ODA”),
Richter moved for reconsideration—that is, “to get an administrative review to
correct the clerical errors, factual errors, computational and calculation
mistakes.” SAP at 27. The Labor Commissioner denied Richter’s
request.  Id.
Richter did not timely file a de novo appeal
under Labor Code section 98.2.  The Berman de
novo appeal process is slower than the writ appeal process.  SAP at 28.  The saying that the
appeal is de novo, giving no weight to the Labor Commissioner’s ODA
is categorically false.  SAP at 28.  In almost every de
novo appeal the Labor Commissioner’s’ judgment is
upheld.  SAP at 28.  There also are strict limits on the
hearing; the losing party must pay costs.  SAP at 28.  An
employer must put up a bond.  SAP at
28.  The “great and golden option to appeal de novo is
simply not the case, it is prohibitive and can be more burdensome than just
going directly to the courts.”  SAP at
29.
The SAP seeks mandamus and injunctive relief prohibiting
Respondents from denying wage claims of applicants without meeting procedural
requirements, preventing Respondents from administering the wage claim program
in a way that discriminates against an employee based on race, color or
national origin, directing Respondents to provide Richter with requested
records within seven days of the court’s order, and declaring that Respondents
have violated due process and statutory obligations in administering the wages
program.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
November 6, 2023, Richter served Lousky and Design with the Petition and
Summons by substitute service, effective November 16, 2023.  
            On
January 8, 2024, DLSE, García-Brower, Clemons, Corleto, Zamora, and Betancur
signed a Notice of Acknowledgement of Receipt for the Petition and Summons.
On February 5, 2024,
Respondents filed a demurrer to the Petition. 
On March 19, 2024,
the court sustained Respondents’ demurrer to the Petition without leave to
amend. 
On April 4, 2024,
the court held a hearing on an order to show cause regarding
dismissal.  Richter stated that he had attempted to file a motion for
reconsideration and an amended petition but was unable to do so.  The
court continued the order to show cause and ordered Richter to serve the
documents forthwith. 
On April 23, 2024,
Richter filed a motion for reconsideration.  On May 9, 2024, the
court granted Richter’s motion for reconsideration, allowing his SAP to be
filed following his failed attempt to electronically file it the day before the
March 19 demurrer hearing.  The court deemed the SAP to be filed as
of May 9, 2024, and waived any meet-and-confer requirement for Respondents’
demurrer.
On May 22, 2024, Respondents filed a demurrer to the SAP.  On June 27, 2024, the court sustained
Respondents’ demurrer to the SAP without leave to amend. 
Richter now brings a motion for reconsideration of the
court’s June 27, 2024 ruling. 
 
B. Applicable Law
Pursuant to CCP section
1008(a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a
court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally,
or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” CCP § 1008(a). 
As it relates to new
or different facts, circumstances, or law under CCP section 1008(a), “the
moving party must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce
that evidence at an earlier time.”  Shiffer
v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.  Furthermore, “facts of which the party
seeking reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling are not
“new or different.”  In re Marriage of
Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.
 
C. Statement of Facts
On June 27, 2024,
the court heard oral argument on Respondents’ demurrer to the SAP and sustained
it without leave to amend.  Opp. at 2.  The court declined do consider Richter’s
opposition because it exceeded the 15-page limit and appeared more responsive
to the demurrer.  Opp. at 2.  Petitioner Richter appeared at the hearing.  Opp. at 2.  Notice of the ruling was sent to Richter by
mail and email.  Opp. at 2.
The court scheduled
an order to show cause re dismissal for July 23, 2024.  Opp. at 2. 
The hearing date was continued to August 15, 2024 due to the malware
infection of the Los Angeles Superior Court’s computer network and remote appearance
system.  Opp. at 2.  On July 25, 2024, Respondents provided
Richter with notice of the continuance via mail and email.  Opp. at 2.
On August 2, 2024,
Richter served and filed the instant motion for reconsideration of the court’s
ruling on the June 27, 2024 order sustaining the demurrer to the SAP without
leave to amend.  Opp. at 2.
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Richter
moves for reconsideration of the court’s order sustaining Respondents’ demurrer
to SAP without leave to amend.
A motion to
reconsider is a two-part motion.  The
court first decides whether the motion presents new or different facts,
circumstances, or law that could not have been presented at the earlier hearing
in the exercise of due diligence.  If the
answer is affirmative, the court then reconsiders its previous ruling.
The court has
reviewed the entirety of Richter’s motion and it presents no new facts,
circumstances, or law that could not have been presented in the earlier and
lengthy hearings in this case.  The
motion does not pass the test for reconsideration and it is denied.[2]



