  Case Number:  23STCV03405    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D., et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV03405




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Dignity Health dba St. Mary Medical Center, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendant Christopher Pook
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D.
 
T/R:    DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS
LEAVE TO AMEND. THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED AS MOOT.
 
            DEFENDANT
TO GIEV NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr.
Mauricio Heilbron, M.D. filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
against Defendants Dignity Health dba St. Mary Medical Center, Carolyn
Caldwell, Charles Anderson, and Christopher Pook, alleging: (1) violation of
Whistleblower Protections; and (2) unfair business practices. 
 
On April 22, 2024, Defendant Christopher Pook demurred to the
SAC and moved to strike.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant’s requests for judicial notice are
GRANTED. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole
complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.
 
A. Violation of Whistleblower Protections
 
In response to the Court’s ruling on a prior demurrer by Defendant
Pook, Plaintiffs added Pook’s name to several pre-existing allegations. According
to Defendant, these include one paragraph from the FAC and three from the
original Complaint that were deleted in the FAC but restored in the SAC.  Plaintiffs reinstated a paragraph (SAC ¶ 34)
alleging that Caldwell, Anderson, and Pook took steps to oust Ali from SMMC,
but did not specify any actions taken by Pook individually.  Plaintiffs reinstated two paragraphs (SAC ¶¶
45, 46) from the original Complaint, adding Pook’s name to previously asserted
allegations.  These paragraphs had been
deleted in the FAC; they were related to a December 2022 letter to the MEC
which was stricken in an anti-SLAPP ruling. 
Plaintiffs amended an existing paragraph (SAC ¶ 47) to include Pook’s
name in a general allegation of retaliation but did not provide specific
actions taken by Pook.
 
Defendant argues that, as a board member, he cannot be sued under Health
& Safety Code § 1278.5 because the statute applies to a “health facility”
and its “administrative personnel” or “employees,” not to individual board
members.  The statute includes “boards”
and “committees of the board,” but not individual members.  (Armin v. Riverside Community Hospital (2016)
5 Cal.App.5th 810.)  Defendant argues
that the SAC also fails to plead specific facts constituting any cause of
action against him; the SAC merely adds his name to general claims without
detailing his individual involvement.  Defendant
also contends that the SAC does not allege that Pook was aware of any
complaints by Ali, nor does it link any adverse actions directly to Pook. 
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that they presented grievances and reports to Pook about
SMMC’s care, services, and conditions (SAC ¶ 69), and that Caldwell, along with
Pook and others, took steps to oust Dr. Ali from SMMC.  (SAC ¶ 34.)  Defendants, including Pook, allegedly
pressured nurses to complain about Dr. Ali and used those complaints to push
for his discipline.  (SAC ¶ 44.)  Pook purportedly obtained a spreadsheet of
complaints about Dr. Ali and used it to pressure nurses to complain,
specifically targeting Dr. Ali due to his advocacy for Medical Staff
independence and high-quality patient care.  (SAC ¶¶ 45-46.)  Additionally, Pook allegedly led and
influenced the HCB to reject Dr. Ali’s proposed changes to ICU care rules and
regulations, making it difficult for private physicians to refer patients to
Dr. Ali and favoring ProHealth hospitalists.  (SAC ¶ 47.)  Pook also is accused of leading and
influencing the HCB to wrongfully accuse Dr. Ali of making misrepresentations,
resulting in a one-year appointment instead of the typical two-year appointment
due to his patient safety advocacy.  (SAC
¶ 48.)
 
Plaintiffs also assert that under section 1278.5(i) Pook can be
sued as the board chair of the Hospital Community Board (HCB). The plain
language of “health facility” includes administrative personnel, employees,
boards, committees of the board, and medical staff.  
 
            Like Armin,
the hospital board here may be considered a “uniplural entity,” akin to a
church, team, or jury.  (Armin, supra,
5 Cal. App. 5th at 834.)  The statute
does not extend personal liability to individual board members merely because
the board consists of individual members.  Even if the statute allowed for individual
board member liability, the SAC fails to include any allegations against Pook
beyond his role as a board member. It does not claim, for example, that Pook
received or was aware of any complaint by Ali. It does not allege that Pook took
adverse actions against Ali because he complained or presented a grievance, as
required by the statute.  (Health &
Saf. Code § 1278.5(b)(1).)  Nor do Plaintiffs
allege that Pook acted in his individual capacity rather than in his official
capacity as Chair of the HCB.  “When
agents and employees act in their official capacities on behalf of their
principals and not as individuals for their own advantage, their acts are
generally privileged and do not give rise to liability in tort or under
statutes which impose duties on their principals.”  (Thornburg v. Superior Ct. (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 43, 52.) 
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to this cause of action with leave
to amend.  
 
B. Unfair Business Practices 
 
Defendant
argues that the UCL claim against him is derivative of the retaliation claim.  (SAC ¶ 74.)  Since the retaliation claim does not state a
valid cause of action, the UCL claim also fails and should be dismissed. 
 
            The Court has found that the retaliation claim is insufficiently
pleaded. The UCL claim relies on that claim, and therefore fails to plead a
basis for liability. 
 
The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the UCL claim with leave to amend.
 
C. Motion to Strike
 
The motion to strike is DENIED as moot.
 