 Case Number:  23SMCV02555    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02555




MOTION


Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant Andrea Valero




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman



 
MOTION
 
The consolidated actions 23SMCV02555 and 23SMCV03059 arise from a neighbor
dispute between Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman (“Perlman”), and
her downstairs neighbors, Andrea and Gelly Valero (collectively, “Valeros”).  
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Andrea Valero (“Valero”) was also the
sole member of the board of directors for Plaintiff Malibu Road Homeowners
Association (“HOA”) which  governed the
property during most of the events giving rise to the actions.  The Valeros and the HOA brought two separate
lawsuits against Defendant stemming from the same factual dispute concerning
water leaks in the Valeros’ unit, allegedly caused by Perlman.
 
Valero now moves to strike the punitive damage allegations from Perlman’s
cross-complaint.  Perlman opposes the
motion and Valero replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5,
subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the moving party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to being stricken and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(1).)  “The
party who filed the pleading shall provide legal support for its position that
the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how the pleading
could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
a motion to strike must be filed.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a declaration
stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, Valero has provided an attorney declaration indicating “On
December 12, 2023 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, I
telephonically met and conferred with Ramy Galal, counsel for Cross-Complainant
Elisa Perlman, informing him of Valero’s intentions to file this Motion to
Strike as to Plaintiff’s Cross-Complaint. 
We were unable to resolve the issues through the meet and confer
process.”  (Hill Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Perlman correctly notes that the statute requires the parties to meet
and confer at least five days before the responsive pleading is due, yet
counsel for Valero did not meet and confer until the day before filing.  However, Perlman does not dispute that the
parties met and conferred telephonically and discussed the merits of Valero’s
motion to strike.
 
Therefore, under the circumstances, the Court does not find that
further meet and confer efforts would likely be fruitful.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Valero requests the Court to take
judicial notice her Complaint for Damages, filed in 23SMCV03059 on July 6, 2023.  
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the Valero complaint is part of the Court’s record for the
consolidated cases, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the Valero complaint filed in 23SMCV03059
as a court record, but not the truth of
the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 

MOTION TO STRIKE

 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
            The requests for punitive damages
stem from two separate allegations: (1) Valero improperly reimbursed herself
from HOA funds; and (2) Valero inconsistently enforced the CC&R’s against Perlman
to control Perlman’s deck repair.  (See
Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 56, 158.)
 
            With respect to the first
allegation, the Cross-Complaint merely alleges, “On information and belief, Ms.
Valero reimbursed herself from the HOA’s operating account for her personal
gain. This conduct constitutes malice, oppression, and/or fraud.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 56.)
 
            With respect to the second
allegation, the Cross-Complaint alleges:
 
·        
“22. The HOA only enforced the CC&Rs against
Ms. Perlman after she requested that the Valeros provide proof of the damages
that they were claiming. Essentially, Ms. Valero weaponized the HOA’s governing
documents to take control of repairs that impacted her Unit #1.”
 
·        
“23. Based on information and belief, the
Valeros completed numerous repairs to their units without architectural
approval in the past.”
 
·        
“24. After requesting the Board minutes, the HOA
scheduled a special meeting for June 2, 2022, to discuss Perlman’s repairs. As
the only Board member, Ms. Valero was the only one making decisions on behalf
of the HOA. On information and belief, Ms. Valero used her power as a Board
member to take total control over Ms. Perlman’s repair efforts to the Home’s
deck despite being an interested party.”
 
·        
“158. Further the HOA breached its fiduciary
duties to Ms. Perlman by arbitrarily and capriciously enforcing the governing
documents against Ms. Perlman with respect to the emergency deck repairs to the
Home. Ms. Valero, as the sole Board member of the HOA, weaponized the governing
documents to control over repairs that impacted her Unit #1. Based on
information and belief, the HOA never enforced the governing documents related
to architectural control before this.  The
HOA and Ms. Valeros conduct rises to the level of oppression, malice, and
fraud.”
 
(Cross-Complaint
at ¶¶ 22-24, 158.)
 
Thus, all of the allegations supporting Perlman’s claim for punitive
damages are alleged only “on information and belief.”  “[I]t is not sufficient to allege fraud or
its elements upon information and belief unless the facts upon which the belief
is founded are stated in the pleading.” (Dowling v. Spring Val. Water Co.
(1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
            Therefore, Perlman has not pleaded
sufficient facts with specificity to support her claim for punitive
damages.  
 

LEAVE TO AMEND

 
            A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.  (See The Inland Oversight Committee v City
of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.)  The plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim.  (See PGA
West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14
Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)  Moreover, a
plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition
to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative
complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.”  (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)  
 
Here, Perlman has failed to
meet this burden, as she does not address whether leave should be granted if
the motion to strike is granted.   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court grants Valero’s Motion to Strike references to punitive
damages from Perlman’s Cross-Complaint without leave to amend.  
 
Further, the Court orders Valero to file and serve an answer to
Perlman’s Cross-Complaint on or before February 8, 2024
 
Valero shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 