 Case Number:  SC127147    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 18, 2024 and January 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC127147




MOTION


Motion to Bifurcate/OSC re Consolidation




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant Railcraft USA (2010), Inc. (erroneously
  sued as Railcraft International Inc. dba Railcraft USA, Inc.)




OPPOSING PARTIES


Cross-Complainant PPF AMLI 4242 Via Marina, LP
Cross-Defendant Advanced Geosolutions, Inc.



 
MOTION
 
            The Court
issued an Order to Show Cause why all related cases should not be consolidated for
trial, and set an Order to Show Cause hearing on January 26, 2024.  
 
In the meantime, Cross-Defendant
Railcraft USA (2010), Inc. (erroneously sued as Railcraft International Inc.
dba Railcraft USA, Inc.) moved to sever and bifurcate all railing claims, or in
the alternative, to continue trial.  The
parties have filed statements with their respective positions regarding
consolidation and bifurcation issues.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 598
provides:
 
The court may, when
the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time.
 
Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section
1048 provides:
 
(a) When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.
 
(b) The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.
 
Per Local Rule 3.3, subdivision
(g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same
department.  A motion to consolidate two
or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.” 
(Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the cases, the Court
may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters that “involve[e]
a common question of law or fact.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)
 
Here, the Court makes its ruling
only as to those cases that have already been related and are currently pending
in Department 207.  
 
Moreover, the complicated nature of
a dozen related cases, with complaints and cross-complaints among and between
the parties, concerning construction defect claims warrants careful consideration
of which issues to combine and which issues to bifurcate for purposes of the parties’
and judicial economy.
 
Based on the parties’ briefing and
the Court’s own review of the cases, the Court determines that the claims in
these cases can be grouped or segregated into four main categories: (1) sewer claims;
(2) emergency lighting claims; (3) railing claims; and (4) other mechanic’s
liens.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Having reviewed the parties’
respective positions, the Court determines that judicial economy will be best
served by structuring the cases as follows:
 
·        
The sewer and emergency lighting claims, along
with the associated mechanic’s liens, (“Sewer and Lighting Claims”) shall be bifurcated
and consolidated for trial as set on March 11, 2024 with a Final Status
Conference set on February 23, 2024.  
 
In preparation for the Final Status
Conference, parties shall comply with the Long Cause Trial Guidelines.  All trial related papers in conformance with
the Long Cause Trial Guidelines shall be filed no later than five (5) court days
before the Final Status Conference.  Upon
confirmation that the parties have complied with the Long Cause Trial
Guidelines and the Court’s determination that Sewer and Lighting Claims are
ready for trial, the Court will order the parties to file a “Notice of Long
Cause Submission to Department 1,” and lodge a courtesy copy of the notice
directly in Department 1 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (Supervising Judge
Michelle Williams Court).  Thereafter,
Department 1 will set a non-appearance case review to determine if parties have
complied with the Long Cause Trial Guidelines and are ready for the long cause
trial. 
 
·        
The railing claims, along with the associated
mechanic’s liens, (“Railing Claims”) shall be bifurcated and consolidated for
trial.  The Court sets a Trial Setting
Conference regarding the Railing Claims on March 1, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in
Department 207.  Parties associated with
the Railing Claims shall meet and confer, and prepare a joint report regarding
trial readiness, including detailed information regarding the status of
discovery and the time estimate for a jury trial.  The joint report shall be filed with the
Court on or before February 23, 2024.  
 
·        
All other mechanic’s liens (not associated
with the sewer, emergency lighting or railing claims) shall be bifurcated
and consolidated for trial.  The Court
sets a Trial Setting Conference regarding such mechanic’s liens on March 1,
2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207. 
Parties associated such mechanic’s liens shall meet and confer, and
prepare a joint report regarding trial readiness including detailed information
regarding the status of discovery and the time estimate for a jury trial.  The joint report shall be filed with the
Court on or before February 23, 2024.  
 
With respect to the Railing Claims,
the Court anticipates, subject to further consideration,  that the deadline for non-expert and expert
discovery shall correspond with the new trial date when set at the upcoming trial
setting conference.  
 
With respect to all other claims
and mechanic’s liens, the discovery deadline set forth in the operative Case
Management Order stands.  
 
            Counsel for
Defendant Western National Builders shall provide notice of the Court’s
orders.  
 
 
DATED: 
January 18, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court