  Case Number:  22SMCV02095    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02095




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Ressie Huang aka Rui Xue Huang




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Zra Estates, Inc. dba Rhodium Floors



 
MOTION
 
            This case arises from a dispute
concerning the purchase and installation of chevron flooring in Plaintiff
Ressie Huang aka Rui Xue Huang’s (“Plaintiff”) home.  Although Plaintiff purchased the defective
flooring at issue, Defendant Zra Estates, Inc. dba Rhodium Floors (“Defendant”)
allegedly refused to return it to the manufacturer for a refund, to deliver it
back to Plaintiff, or to attempt to sell it to mitigate Plaintiff’s
damages.  As such, Plaintiff seeks leave
to amend the complaint to allege a cause of action for conversion.  Defendant opposes, arguing Plaintiff’s
proposed amendment is not meritorious, and Plaintiff has replied.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the
complaint to add a cause of action for conversion, stemming from Defendant’s
failure to timely return the defective chevron flooring Plaintiff purchased to
the manufacturer for a refund, to deliver the flooring product to Plaintiff, or
to re-sell the flooring to mitigate damages. 

 
            Plaintiff has lodged a proposed
first amended complaint, and the motion describes the proposed additions.  
 
            Plaintiff has also provided the
Declaration of Sandra Khalili, which provides a detailed timeline of various
discovery and settlement negotiations.  Specifically,
the Declaration indicates:
 
·        
Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents and Form Interrogatories on March 7, 2023 and
to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories on September 21, 2023.  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
·        
Believing Defendant’s discovery responses were
incomplete, Plaintiff subpoenaed third party Frontier Floor Company
(“Frontier”) for a deposition and for production of documents on October 26,
2023, but to date Frontier has not appeared for deposition or produced any
documents.  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
·        
At a May 1, 2023 Case Management Conference, the
parties agreed to participate in a mandatory settlement conference, which was
continued twice – first by stipulation and then on the Court’s own motion – and
was finally held on November 2, 2023. 
(Khalili Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.)
 
·        
The parties agreed “to hold off on depositions
and motion practice pending the MSC” and to “attempt to resolve the dispute before
incurring substantial fees and resources for pre-trial and trial preparation
and additional discovery.”  (Khalili
Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
·        
The MSC was ultimately unsuccessful and
settlement negotiations conclusively broke down between the parties on November
9, 2023.  (Khalili Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)
 
·        
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff received
confirmation from Defendant’s counsel that Defendant would not stipulate to the
proposed amendment (Khalili Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
The
Khalili Declaration also discusses the timeline of events giving rise to the
litigation:
 
·        
“Plaintiff first notified Defendant of the
defects on July 11, 2022 and requested that Defendant repair and return the
flooring by July 15, 2022[.]” (Khalili Decl. ¶ 11a.)
 
·        
“Plaintiff gave Defendant a final deadline of July
29, 2022 to return the flooring.” 
(Khalili Decl. ¶ 11a.)
 
·        
“Plaintiff and Defendant first discussed sale of
the flooring in April and May 2023 after the lawsuit was already filed[.]”  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 11b.)
 
·        
“In late September 2023, Defendant’s counsel,
Mr. Avrahamy, informed me that the flooring had not been sold, and that
Defendant would continue to make efforts to sell the flooring.”  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 11c.)
 
·        
“At the November 2, 2023 MSC, Plaintiff and I
were again informed that none of the flooring had been sold.”  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 11c.)
 
·        
“Plaintiff learned shortly before or at the MSC
of Defendant’s claim that not all of chevron pattern flooring that it had
withheld from Plaintiff was defective. 
Nonetheless, Defendant had continued to withhold all of the flooring –
even the part that Defendant claimed was not defective.”  (Khalili Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff was aware of the facts underlying
the new conversion claim when the complaint was originally filed in October 31,
2022, and that the new facts do not support a conversion claim.
 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff
has provided a declaration indicating that Plaintiff did not discover that
Defendant withheld flooring that was not defective until either shortly before
or at the MSC, which was held on November 2, 2023.  Moreover, the Khalili declaration indicates
that a motion for leave to amend was not filed sooner because the parties were
earnestly working toward settlement.  
 
With respect to Defendant’s arguments about the merits of the
conversion claim, the Court will generally not consider the merits of the
proposed amendment in determining whether to grant leave to amend.  (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048; see also Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656, citations omitted 
[“But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory
which would make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the
kind of prejudice the court will consider”].)
 
Finally, Defendant opposes the motion for leave to amend on the
grounds that it will likely require another trial continuance so that Defendant
can challenge the new claim by dispositive motion.  But absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone
is not grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not
misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments
prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case
even if sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).)  Defendant does not argue prejudice in any
way.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has satisfied all procedural and substantive requirements and grants
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend.  
 
Further, the Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve the proposed
amended complaint on or before February 1, 2024. 
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 18, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 