  Case Number:  23STCV03486    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HALEY CHAPMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARRIOT INTERNATIONAL,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV03486
  Hearing Date:  August 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
hotel defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
  (CRS# 4846)  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Haley Chapman, individually and as successor-in-interest to Noelle Glotfelty
(Decedent), filed this action against various Defendants for (1) wrongful
death, (2) survival cause of action, and (3) negligence. The complaint stems
from the death of Decedent, who committed suicide inside a Marriott hotel room.
Plaintiff is Decedent’s daughter. (Compl. ¶ 1.) 
            On February 24, 2022, Decedent’s
aunt, Suzanne Cookman, called the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office (VCSO) and
expressed concern over Decedent. Thereafter, VCSO Deputy Scott arrived at Ms.
Cookman’s residence, where Ms. Cookman provided certain information about
Decedent, including that Decedent had called a suicide hotline. Ms. Cookman
advised Deputy Scott that Decedent had not arrived at her residence, at Plaintiff’s
residence, or at Decedent’s mother’s residence. Deputy Scott also spoke with
Plaintiff on the phone while he was at Ms. Cookman’s residence, and Ms. Cookman
and Plaintiff speculated that Decedent may have visited a hotel.
            Upon leaving Ms. Cookman’s
residence, Deputy Scott began calling local hotels until he reached the
Courtyard Marriott in Agoura Hills, which confirmed that Decedent had checked
in earlier in the day. However, the hotel employee, Jeffrey Page, refused to
provide Decedent’s room number over the phone. Deputy Scott then contacted VCSO
superiors for permission to travel to the hotel, which was granted. Deputy
Scott updated Ms. Cookman and then arrived at the hotel with Deputy Sperber at
around 12:18am on February 25, 2022.
            Upon the deputies’ arrival, a
different employee, Noah Gamboa, was manning the front desk. Gamboa refused to
provide Decedent’s room number despite being informed of Deputy Scott’s earlier
phone conversation with Page and despite being informed of a potential suicide
risk. Deputy Scott convinced Gamboa to call Decedent’s room, but there was no
answer. Deputy Scott then asked Gamboa to call a supervisor, but there was no
answer. The deputies then searched the hotel premises for 30 to 40 minutes but
did not locate Decedent. Afterwards, the deputies departed the premises,
informing VCSO at 1:23am that their investigation was complete. Decedent was
found deceased in her hotel room later on the morning of February 25, 2022. 
            On May 30, 2024, Defendants Marriott
International, Inc.; Agoura Hills HHG Hotel Development, LP; and Huntington
Pacific Hotels, LLC filed the instant motion for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff filed her opposition on
August 2, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on August 9, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
DISCUSSION 
I.
Wrongful Death
            As an initial matter, “[p]unitive
damages are not available . . . in a statutory wrongful death action.” (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 796.) Therefore, the
prayer for punitive damages in the wrongful death claim fails as a matter of
law regardless of any malice, oppression, or fraud.  
 
II.
Malice, Oppression, or Fraud
            a. Legal Standard
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)  
“[M]ere negligence, even gross negligence
is not sufficient to justify an award of punitive damages.” (Ebaugh v.
Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894.) Instead, “the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.” (Blegen v. Superior Court (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959,
962-63.) “Where there is no evidence that gives rise to an inference of actual
malice or conduct sufficiently outrageous to be deemed equivalent to actual
malice, the trial court need not, and indeed should not, submit the issue of
punitive damages to the jury.” (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
1150, 1176.) 
            b. Gamboa’s Conduct 
Here, the hotel policy prohibited
disclosure of guest information to law enforcement without a warrant unless
certain circumstances were present, including where there is a reasonable
belief of danger. (See Def.’s Ex. C.) It is undisputed that Gamboa refused to
provide Deputy Scott with Decedent’s room number by claiming that company
policy prohibited him from doing so. (UF 6.) Defendants contend that Gamboa’s
misinterpretation of hotel policy does not amount to malice, oppression, or
fraud. (Mtn. 13:4-13.)
            Plaintiff argues that Gamboa “not
only acted with extreme and despicable indifference and conscious disregard to
the health and safety of Ms. Glotfelty, but in doing so was also in violation
of Hotel policies and Penal Code § 148.” (Opp. 7:11-13.) Penal Code section 148
prohibits the willful obstruction of peace officer duties. 
It is not disputed that Gamboa’s refusal
to provide Decedent’s room number violated hotel policy. However, that fact
alone does not rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud. Plaintiff
presents no evidence of aggravating factors that would render Gamboa’s conduct
above negligence or gross negligence. There is no evidence that Gamboa
exhibited “extreme and despicable indifference” for Decedent’s safety or
willfully obstructed the deputies.
c. Page’s Conduct
Plaintiff argues that Page’s conduct
amounted to a willful and conscious disregard for Decedent’s rights and safety.
However, as with Gamboa, the evidence against Page establishes at most that he
withheld Decedent’s room number in violation of hotel policy. As discussed
above, this is insufficient to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or
fraud. 
d. Negligent Retention
Plaintiff also argues that certain
managing agents of the hotel had advance knowledge of Gamboa’s unfitness yet
employed him and allowed him to be the person in charge at the time of
Decedent’s death. However, the mere hiring of someone unqualified does not
amount to malice, oppression, or fraud. As with above, there is no evidence of
aggravating circumstances justifying the imposition of punitive damages. (See
Opp. 9:14-13:16.) 
 
 
e. Fitzpatrick Memo
Lastly, Plaintiff cites evidence that
manager Jim Fitzpatrick authored a memo informing employees not to provide
guest information to law enforcement unless it is a hot pursuit or there is a
warrant. (Plntf.’s Ex. A.) Plaintiff argues that this violated hotel policy,
which does not limit disclosure of guest information to instances of hot
pursuit or when there is a warrant. Specifically, hotel policy permits
warrantless disclosure when there is probable danger to a guest. (Def.’s Ex.
C.) 
Again, however, Plaintiff offers no
evidence that Fitzpatrick wrote the memo with malice or conscious disregard for
Decedent’s rights and safety. In fact, Plaintiff acknowledges that the memo was
written “in response to a front desk person inappropriately giving out guest
information to police officers.” (Opp. 13:19-20.) 
In sum, the undisputed facts show that
hotel policy permitted disclosure of guest information when there is danger to
the guest, and the hotel defendants failed to follow this policy by refusing to
provide Decedent’s room number after being informed of the suicide risk. As a
matter of law, this conduct does not rise to the level of malice, oppression,
or fraud required for punitive damages. In opposition, Plaintiff has failed to
present clear and convincing evidence to raise a triable issue. (See Civ. Code,
§ 3294; Basich v. Allstate Insurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112,
1121.) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED. 
  