 Case Number:  23STCV15891    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
OMEIRA STUDIO PARTNERS,
  LTD.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FIBONACCI FILMS, LLC,  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV15891
  Hearing Date:  August 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendant fibonacci films, llc’s
  motion for summary adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 7, 2023, Plaintiff Omeira
Studio Partners, Ltd. (Omeira) filed this action against Defendant Fibonacci
Films, LLC (Fibonacci) for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach of contract, and
(3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The
complaint concerns the rights to $589,290 of proceeds from the film First
Reformed (the Picture), which Fibonacci has allegedly refused to distribute
to Omeira pursuant to a settlement agreement (the Agreement). The funds are
currently held by third-party collection agent Freeway CAM B.V. (Freeway).
            On August 25, 2023, Fibonacci filed
a cross-complaint against Omeira asserting the same three causes of action. The
cross-complaint alleges that Fibonacci is contractually entitled to the
$589,290 in first position against Omeira. 
            On April 19, 2024, Fibonacci filed
the instant motion for summary adjudication of the declaratory relief claim in
its cross-complaint and the affirmative defenses in Omeira’s answer to the
cross-complaint. Omeira filed its opposition on August 2, 2024. Fibonacci filed
its reply on August 12, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each
element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once
the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Omeira’s
Objections

Objection Nos. 1-4 are
     sustained. 

Fibonacci’s
Objections

The Court does not consider
     Fibonacci’s objections, as they are directed at Omeira’s separate
     statement rather than actual items of evidence. Omeira’s legal arguments
     and summary of facts are not properly subject to evidentiary objections.
     As each statement of fact is supported by multiple items of evidence, the
     objections fail to identify the exact document and location of the
     specific material being objected to. (See Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
     3.1354(b).)

DISCUSSION
I.
Declaratory Relief
            a. Section 2.2.5 of the Agreement
            The parties entered into a
Collection Account Management Pre-Agreement (pre-CAMA), which included a
“Schedule 2” for the distribution of Collected Gross Receipts. (Fibonacci’s
Stmt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 15, 45.) Fibonacci relies on Section 2.2.5 of
the Agreement, which replaced certain language in Schedule 2 with the following
language: 
 
“Solely from the
Domestic Territory Gross Receipt, to Omeira, until recoupment of the Omeira Contribution
(to the extent not already recouped from ROW Territory Collected Gross Receipts),
but in the event that Omeira is paid any amounts from the Fibonacci cash
deposit pursuant to the Pledge and Assignment Agreement among those
parties and concerning the Film, to Fibonacci in first position until
recoupment by Fibonacci of the amount of the Fibonacci cash deposit so paid to
Omeira and then to Omeira until recoupment of the Omeira Contribution and thereafter.”
(UF
46.) 
            Fibonacci contends that Omeira was
paid $910,740 from the Fibonacci cash deposit funds (UF 44), and therefore,
Fibonacci is entitled to recoup that amount from the Domestic Territory Gross
Receipts in first position. Because the remaining amount of the Domestic
Receipts is only $510,290, Fibonacci argues that it is entitled to the entire
amount.
            Omeira argues that the “cash
deposit” referenced in Section 2.2.5 was not made pursuant to the Pledge and
Assignment Agreement but rather under the Stipulation to Distribute
Interpleaded Funds, incorporated into the Agreement as Schedule A. Omeira
points out that under Fibonacci’s own undisputed facts, “Schedule A is the
Stipulation filed with the Court whereunder the amount of $910,740 was paid to
Omeira.” (See UF 51.) Thus, Omeira argues that Fibonacci’s right to first
position under Section 2.2.5 was never triggered.  
            b. Schedule B
            Incorporated into the Agreement is
Schedule B, which is a “Direction to Pay” instructing Freeway on how to
distribute the funds. (Omeira’s Stmt. of Add’l Facts (AF) 7.) Schedule B states
that “[Omeira] will assign to Fibonacci its entitlements under Paragraph 5 of
Schedule 2 of the Pre-CAMA once [Omeira] has been paid a sum of $589,260
thereunder.” (Ibid.) Omeira contends that Fibonacci acknowledged its
understanding of this when its attorney distributed a Commercial Summary
detailing how Fibonacci interpreted the Agreement. The Commercial Summary
stated: “From the escrow funds currently held by the court, Omeira will be paid
$910,710. From the funds currently held by Freeway representing Domestic
Territory Collected Gross Receipts, Omeira will be paid $589,290.” (AF
13.)    
            Fibonacci argues that Schedule B is
moot because Section 2.2.7 of the Agreement provides that the Direction to Pay
was only to be executed “[i]n the event the parties are unable to secure the
signature of the other parties to the pre-CAMA.” (UF 54.) Fibonacci argues that
because the pre-CAMA was fully signed, the condition precedent to Schedule B
never materialized, rendering Schedule B invalid. In response, Omeira argues
that Schedule B was executed as part of the Agreement and reflects the parties’
intent. (Resp. to UF 54.)
            
c. Analysis
                        1.
Section 2.2.5
The Court finds that there is a triable
issue over Fibonacci’s entitlement to the “first position” under Section 2.2.5
of the Agreement. Specifically, under Section 2.2.5, the first position is
triggered “in the event that Omeira is paid any amounts from the Fibonacci cash
deposit pursuant to the Pledge and Assignment Agreement.” (UF 46.) However,
Omeira was paid $910,740 under the Schedule A Stipulation to Distribute
Interpleaded Funds, not the Pledge and Assignment Agreement. (UF 51.) Fibonacci
confirms in reply that “no funds were ever paid from the Pledge and Assignment
Agreement to Omeira.” (Reply 5:24-25.) Thus, a reasonable trier of fact may
find that Fibonacci’s first position was not triggered under Section 2.2.5.    
            2.
Schedule B
The Court finds that Schedule B raises a
factual dispute over the intended distribution. Schedule B provides that Omeira
be paid $589,260 before the payment rights are assigned to Fibonacci. (AF 7.)
Fibonacci has not established as a matter of law that Section 2.2.7 of the
Agreement renders Schedule B void. Section 2.2.7 provides, in its entirety:
 
“The parties agree
to reasonably cooperate to obtain all signatures on an amended pre-CAMA
incorporating the revision set forth in Section 2.3.1. In the event the parties
are unable to secure the signatures of the other parties to the pre-CAMA (or
the long form CAMA if required pursuant to paragraph 2.b), Ferrocyanide shall
execute a Direction To Pay in the form set forth in Schedule B, instructing
Freeway to make payments as described in paragraph 2.3.1.” 
(FSMA
069.) Section 2.3.1 in turn provides: 
 
“Ferrocyanide will
seek A24’s written consent to assign to Fibonacci Ferrocyanide’s contractual
right to receive reporting from A24, to audit A24, and inspection rights (and
related enforcement rights) of A24 set forth in paragraph 16 of the
Distribution Agreement entered into by and between A24 and Ferrocyanide dated
as of November 28, 2017.” 
(FSMA
070.) 
            Section 2.2.7 provides that “Ferrocyanide
shall execute a Direction to Pay in the form set forth in Schedule B, instructing
Freeway to make payments as described in paragraph 2.3.1.” However, Section
2.3.1 contains no payment instructions, and Schedule B does not even contain a
signature line for Ferrocyanide. At best, this results in ambiguity. Fibonacci
itself alleges that Section 2.2.7 is “unintelligible” and “moot ab initio.”
(See Cross-Compl. ¶ 16.) Thus, it cannot be determined as a matter of law that
Section 2.2.7 voids the existing Direction to Pay signed by Omeira and
Fibonacci. (See FSMA 087-092.) 
The Court agrees with Omeira that the
execution and incorporation of the Direction to Pay suggest that the Direction
is a valid part of the Agreement. (See Civ. Code, § 1642 [“Several contracts
relating to the same matters, between the same parties, and made as parts of
substantially one transaction, are to be taken together”].) A reasonable trier
of fact may find that Schedule B is valid and governs the distribution of the
Gross Receipts held by Freeway. 
Lastly, even assuming Schedule B is void,
that would only mean Omeira cannot rely on Schedule B to claim entitlement to
the Freeway funds. However, that does not establish as a matter of law that
Fibonacci is entitled to the funds. As framed in its moving papers, Fibonacci
claims entitlement to the Freeway funds under the “first position” provision of
Section 2.2.5 of the Agreement. As discussed above, there is a factual dispute
over whether the first position was triggered. Thus, there is a factual dispute
over Fibonacci’s entitlement to the Freeway funds regardless of the
applicability and meaning of Schedule B.     
 
            In sum, there are disputes of
material fact precluding summary adjudication of Fibonacci’s declaratory relief
claim.  
II.
Affirmative Defenses
            Fibonacci argues that Omeira’s
affirmative defenses necessarily fail if Fibonacci succeeds in its declaratory
relief claim. Fibonacci also argues that the defenses are unsupported by facts.

As discussed above, there are triable
issues on the declaratory relief claim. The Court finds that the defenses are
properly pled in the answer. To the extent Fibonacci seeks to strike the
affirmative defenses from the answer for lack of evidence, Fibonacci bears the
initial burden on summary judgment to show as a matter of law that the defenses
cannot possibly be supported by any evidence. (See Lona v. Citibank, N.A.
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 89, 110.) Fibonacci has not attempted such a
showing. Merely pointing out a lack of evidence is insufficient. (Ibid.)
Thus, summary adjudication on the affirmative defenses is unwarranted.    
CONCLUSION
            Cross-Complainant Fibonacci Films,
LLC’s motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
 