  Case Number:  24PSCV01297    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s Demurrer to First Amended  Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Lina Arboleda   Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s Motion to Strike Prayer for  Punitive Damages and Attorneys Fees of the First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Lina Arboleda   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s Demurrer to First Amended  Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to  amend as to the first and third causes of action and without leave to amend as  to the second cause of action. Furthermore, the Demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART  as to the fourth cause of action.   Defendant Miguel Sahagun’s Motion to Strike Prayer for  Punitive Damages and Attorneys Fees of the First Amended Complaint is deemed MOOT.   BACKGROUND   This is an action for conversion. On February 2, 2024,  Defendant Miguel Sahagun obtained a default judgment in an unlawful detainer  action against Plaintiff Lina Arboleda with regards to a property in El Monte.  On February 21, 2024, Arboleda quit possession of the El Monte property  following a lockout by the sheriff. Subsequently, Arboleda alleges Sahagun has  refused to turn over the possession of Arboleda’s personal property that was  left at the El Monte property. Instead, Sahagun has allegedly demanded Arboleda  pay Sahagun money or sign a waiver of Arboleda’s right to sue.   On April 23, 2024, Arboleda filed a complaint against  Sahagun and Does 1-15, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of  Code of Civil Procedure sections 1983 to 1987, (2) civil extortion, (3)  trespass to conversion, and (4) trespass to chattels.   On August 27, 2024, Arboleda filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1983 to 1987, (2)  attempted civil extortion, (3) trespass to conversion, and (4) trespass to  chattels.   On September 30, 2024, Sahagun filed the present demurrer.  On October 7, 2024, Sahagun filed the present motion to strike. On October 29,  2024, Sahagun’s counsel telephonically met and conferred with Arboleda’s  counsel. (Nong Decl., ¶ 2.)   A hearing on the present motions is set for November 14,  2024, along with a case management conference.   ANALYSIS  Sahagun demurs to Arboleda’s entire FAC. For  the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS  Sahagun’s demurrer to Arboleda’s first  and third­­ causes of action with leave to amend and to Arboleda’s second cause  of action without leave to amend. The court also OVERRULES the demurrer as  to the fourth cause of action.   Legal Standard  A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Litigation Privilege  Sahagun first argues Arboleda’s second cause  of action for attempted civil extortion, third cause of action for trespass to  chattel, and fourth cause of action for conversion are barred as a matter of  law by the litigation privilege. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   “For well over a century,¿communications with  ‘some relation’ to judicial proceedings have been absolutely immune from tort  liability by the [litigation] privilege” set forth in¿Civil Code section 47,  subdivision (b).¿(Rubin v. Green¿(1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1193 (Rubin).)  The privilege has “an expansive reach” (id.,¿at p. 1194) and “applies to  any action except one for malicious prosecution” (Pacific Gas & Electric  Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.¿(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1132). It also applies  to prelitigation communications. (Rubin, supra, 4 Cal.4th at p. 1194-1195  [collecting cases].)   The litigation privilege bars liability for  “any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by  litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects  of the litigation; and (4) that ha[s] some connection or logical relation to  the action.” (Silberg v. Anderson¿(1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212 (Silberg).) Whether  the privilege applies is a question of law. (Kashian v. Harriman¿(2002)  98 Cal.App.4th 892, 913.) And “[a]ny doubt about whether the privilege applies  is resolved in favor of applying it.” (Ibid.) “The litigation  privilege is interpreted broadly in order to further its principal purpose of  affording litigants and witnesses the utmost freedom of access to the courts  without fear of harassment in derivative tort actions.” (Digerati Holdings,  LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 889.) It  “is absolute and applies regardless of malice.” (Ibid.)   Discussion   In this case, Arboleda’s causes of action for  civil extortion, conversion, and trespass to chattels are based on a series of  statements allegedly made by Sahagun. At an in-person meeting between Sahagun  and Arboleda on February 27, 2024, Sahagun demanded $80,000 in exchange for  returning Arboleda’s property. (FAC, ¶ 19-20.) Sahagun then reduced the demand  to an amount between $18,000 and $10,000. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The alleged purpose of  the demand was to compensate Sahagun for past due rent and damages that  Arboleda allegedly owed. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Sahagun stated if Arboleda did not make  the demanded payment, Sahagun would then file a lawsuit and destroy Arboleda’s  property. (FAC, ¶ 22.) And on another occasion, Sahagun told Arboleda through a  police officer that Sahagun would release Arboleda’s property if Arboleda first  “would sign a document stating that she would not sue him for any reason  relating to the property that was left behind after the eviction.” (FAC, ¶ 39.)   In arguing Sahagun’s communications were  privileged, Sahagun claims they were akin to demand letters where Sahagun  advised of the required payment for the return of the property and stated  Sahagun’s lawful entitlement to payment of past due rent and reasonable storage  fees. This argument, however, misstates the FAC’s allegations. The FAC does not  allege Sahagun demanded payment of storage fees in exchange for the return of  Arboleda’s property. Instead, it alleges Sahagun demanded the payment as  compensation for past due rent and damages to the rental property. (FAC, ¶ 21,  Ex. 5, ¶ 4.) Sahagun fails to point to any legal authority that would allow a  landlord to retain a former tenant’s personal property until that tenant compensates  the landlord for past damages and unpaid rent.   Furthermore, Sahagun also threatened to  destroy Arboleda’s property if Sahagun did not receive payment. Sahagun fails  to address how this threat was a privileged communication and how Sahagun had  the lawful entitlement to make such threats. Similarly, Sahagun fails to  address the allegation that Sahagun then premised the release of Arboleda’s  property on Arboleda’s signing of a waiver. Sahagun fails to establish how this  communication was privileged and how Sahagun had the lawful entitlement to retain  a tenant’s personal property until they signed waivers of their right to sue  Sahagun.   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Sahagun’s demurrer on this ground.   Breach of Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1983  to 1987 (First Cause of Action)   Sahagun contends Arboleda’s first cause of  action for breach of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1983 to 1987 fails because  these provisions do not exist. The court finds that this is not technically  correct. While there is no Code of Civil Procedure section 1983, there are  other existing code sections that fall within this range. (e.g., Code Civ.  Proc., § 1985 et seq.) Nonetheless, these provisions are inapplicable here as  they involve the use of subpoenas, not the disposal of tenant property. Instead,  it appears to the court that the language quoted in the FAC comes from Civil  Code section 1983, not Code of Civil Procedure section 1983. (FAC, ¶ 47-48.)   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Sahagun’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend.   Attempted Civil Extortion (Second Cause  of Action)   Sahagun maintains Arboleda’s second cause of  action for attempted civil extortion fails to plead sufficient facts to state a  claim. The court agrees.   Legal Standard   “However denominated (e.g., extortion,  menace, duress), our Supreme Court has recognized a cause of action for the  recovery of money obtained by the wrongful threat of criminal or civil  prosecution. [Citations.] It is essentially a cause of action for moneys  obtained by duress, a form of fraud.” (Fuhrman v. California Satellite  Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, 426 (Fuhrman), disapproved of on  other grounds in Silberg, supra, 50 Cal.3d at p. 212-213.)   Discussion   In this case, the FAC fails to allege how  Sahagun obtained money or property from Arboleda by duress. And to the extent  the FAC seeks to hold Sahagun liable for attempting to obtain money from  Arboleda through duress, Arboleda fails to provide any authority that establishes  a cause of action for attempted civil extortion. In fact, Fuhrman appears  to suggest such a cause of action does not exist as it held a plaintiff could  not state a cause of action for duress where the plaintiff never actually made  paid the money that was demanded. (Id., at p. 426, 428.)   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Sahagun’s demurrer to this cause of action without leave to amend.   Trespass to Conversion (Third Cause of  Action)   Sahagun argues Arboleda’s third cause of  action for trespass to conversion fails to plead sufficient facts to state a  claim. But while Sahagun’s demurrer appears to treat this as a cause of action  for conversion, the court finds this cause of action to be uncertain as it is  unclear if the FAC is alleging conversion or trespass to chattels. Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS Sahagun’s demurrer to this cause of action  with leave to amend.   Trespass to Chattels (Fourth Cause of  Action)   Sahagun contends Arboleda’s fourth cause of  action for trespass to chattels fails to plead sufficient facts to state a  claim. The court disagrees.   Legal Standard   “Trespass to chattel . . . lies where an  intentional interference with the possession of personal property has  proximately caused injury.” (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46  Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566.) It is considered the “little brother of conversion” as  “[t]hough not amounting to conversion, the defendant's interference must, to be  actionable, have caused some injury to the chattel or to the plaintiff’s rights  in it.” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1350.) The  plaintiff “may recover only the actual damages suffered by reason of the  impairment of the property or the loss of its use.” (Zaslow v. Kroenert (1946)  29 Cal.2d 541, 551.)   Discussion   In this case, Sahagun contends the FAC fails  to sufficiently plead this cause of action because it only alleges Arboleda  owned the property and that Sahagun substantially interfered with the property.  But the FAC also alleges the essential element of damages by alleging Sahagun’s  damaged their personal property. (FAC, ¶ 35, 72-73.) The FAC also alleges the  loss of the property has resulted in lost business income. (FAC, ¶ 23-25, 74.)  Thus, the court finds this cause of action is sufficiently pled.   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Sahagun’s demurrer to this cause of action.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Sahagun’s demurrer to Arboleda’s FAC is SUSTAINED IN PART with  twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the first and third causes of action and  without leave to amend as to the second cause of action. Furthermore, the  demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to the fourth cause of action.   Based upon the  recommendations made on the demurrer, Sahagun’s motion to strike is DEEMED MOOT.