 Case Number:  24CHCV00404    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/26/24
Case #24CHCV00404
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 2/14/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Tremendo, LLC; Takela Corbitt, Marlo Richardson, Greenwood & Company
Management and Greenhouse Trees

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Minaskanian Properties, LLC
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
            1.  Unlawful Detainer
 
RULING: The demurrer is placed off calendar as
moot as to Defendants Tremendo, LLC; Takela Corbitt, Greenwood & Company
Management and Greenhouse Trees and overruled as to Marlo Richardson.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On 2/8/24, Plaintiff Minaskanian Properties, LLC
(Plaintiff) filed this unlawful detainer action against Defendants Tremendo,
LLC; Takela Corbitt, Marlo Richardson, Greenwood & Company Management and
Greenhouse Trees (collectively, Defendants) and others (Edward Long and Brandon
Watson who are in default) regarding property located at 9449 Irondale Avenue,
Chatsworth, California.
 
On 2/14/24, Defendants filed and served the instant
demurrer to the complaint.  On that same
day, the Requests to Waive Court fees by all of the Defendants, except Marlo
Richardson, were denied.  On 3/8/24,
default was entered against Tremendo, LLC and Greenhouse Trees.  On 3/12/24, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
the demurrer.  On 3/14/24, default was
entered against Takela Corbitt and Greenwood & Company Management,
LLC.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer will proceed only as
to Marlo Richardson.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Contrary to the assertions in the demurrer, the complaint
alleges sufficient facts to state a claim for unlawful detainer and is not so
uncertain that Marlo Richardson cannot respond. 
Additionally, since the property at issue does not appear to be
residential, attaching a copy of the alleged written agreement is not
required.  (See Complaint, p.2,
No.6.e.).
 
The argument regarding the complaint naming defendants
who are not lessors appears to be directed at defendants (Corbitt and Tremendo,
LLC) who are in default.  (See
Demurrer, p.621-22).  Even if these
defendants were not in default, the argument improperly goes beyond the
pleading.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is placed off calendar as moot as to
Defendants Tremendo, LLC; Takela Corbitt, 
Greenwood & Company Management and Greenhouse Trees due to the entry
of default against these defendants.
 
The demurrer is overruled as to Defendant Marlo
Richardson.  Answer is due within 5
days.  
 