 Case Number:  22STCV27490    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/26/24
Case #22STCV27490
 
MOTION FOR
SANCTIONS
 
Motion filed on 10/16/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Calvin Klein Studio, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Plaintiff Carlotta Andrea
Peart
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order dismissing Calvin Klein
Studio from the complaint with prejudice and/or imposing sanctions against
Plaintiff Carlotta Andrea Peart and her attorneys of record, in an amount that
this Court deems just and proper, including reasonable expenses and attorneys’
fees incurred by Calvin Klein Studio to defend against, and dispose of, the
Complaint.  
 
RULING: 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Carlotta Andrea
Peart’s (Plaintiff) purchase of clothing allegedly manufactured by Defendant
Calvin Klein Studio, LLC (Calvin Klein Studio) from Defendant Macy’s Retail
Holdings, LLC (Macy’s) on 9/4/20. 
Plaintiff alleges that shortly after the purchase, while putting on one
of the pieces of clothing, the manufacturer’s tag/label came loose and cut
Plaintiff’s eye causing serious and permanent injury.  As a result on 8/24/22, Plaintiff filed this
action against Macy’s and Calvin Klein Studio alleging various causes of
action.
 
After being served with the Complaint, Calvin Klein
Studio’s counsel informed Plaintiff several times that Calvin Klein Studio was
improperly named as the defendant because it does not manufacture the product
that was involved in the lawsuit, it does not sell the product that was
involved in the lawsuit, and it has had nothing to do with the manufacture of
Calvin Klein products for at least the last 15 years.  (Frimmer Decl. ¶¶3-5). Despite being informed
of this fact, Plaintiff’s counsel refused to dismiss Calvin Klein Studio from
the Complaint.  (Id. ¶6).  Since Plaintiff did not dismiss Calvin Klein
Studio, it filed an Answer on 1/20/23.  (Id.
¶7).   Thereafter, Calvin Klein Studio’s
counsel again contacted Plaintiff’s counsel about it being the wrong defendant
and requesting that it be dismissed.  (Id.
¶8).  Again, Plaintiff’s counsel refused.
Id.  On 10/3/23, Calvin Klein
Studio’s counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel again requesting that Calvin
Klein Studio be dismissed from this action.  (Id. ¶9).  Plaintiff still not dismiss Calvin Klein
Studio from this action.  (Id. ¶10).

 
On 10/16/23, Calvin Klein Studio filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order dismissing Calvin Klein Studio from the
complaint with prejudice and/or imposing sanctions against Plaintiff Carlotta
Andrea Peart and her attorneys of record, in an amount that this Court deems
just and proper, including reasonable expenses and attorneys’ fees incurred by
Calvin Klein Studio to defend against, and dispose of, the complaint.  
 
On 3/14/24, Plaintiff’s request to dismiss Calvin Klein
Studio without prejudice was entered. 
Plaintiff did not otherwise oppose or respond to the instant
motion.  On 3/18/24, Calvin Klein Studio
filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the motion. 
In the notice, Calvin Klein Studio requests an award of sanctions for
its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with the motion
and defending this action, along with any additional amounts the Court deems
just and proper.  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
The instant motion is made pursuant to CCP 128.5 and CCP
128.7.
 
CCP 128.5 provides, in part: 
 
“(f)(1) Sanctions ordered pursuant
to this section shall be ordered pursuant to the following conditions and
procedures:
 
. .
. 
 
(B) If the alleged action or tactic
is the making or opposing of a written motion or the filing and service of a
complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading that can
be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice of motion shall be served
as provided in Section
1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court, unless 21
days after service of the motion or any other period as the court may
prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately
corrected.” (emphasis added)
 
Similarly, CCP 128.7(c) provides, in part: 
 
“(1) A motion for sanctions under
this section shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall
describe the specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of
motion shall be served as provided in Section
1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless,
within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other period as the court
may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or
denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. If warranted, the court
may award to the party prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and
attorney's fees incurred in presenting or opposing the motion. Absent
exceptional circumstances, a law firm shall be held jointly responsible for
violations committed by its partners, associates, and employees.” (emphasis
added)
 
Here, the instant motion was filed and served on
10/16/23.  (See Frimmer Decl. ¶12,
Ex.A).  As such, Calvin Klein Studio
failed to provide Plaintiff with the required “safe-harbor” period before
filing the instant motion.  
 
Even if Calvin Klein Studio had complied with the
safe-harbor period, with regard to the monetary sanctions sought, it has failed
to provide any information regarding the attorney’s fees and costs
incurred.  Calvin Klein Studio’s attorney
states that “[a] summary of the fees and costs incurred in defending the action
is forthcoming and will be provided when this Declaration is filed with the
Court.”  (See Frimmer Decl.
¶11).  No such summary has been
filed.  
 
As noted above, Calvin Klein Studio has already been
dismissed from the complaint, albeit, without prejudice.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 

 
 