  Case Number:  21STCV26682    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Defendant
Valley Brake Supply moves for summary judgment of the claims of Plaintiffs Darren
Hargrove and Kevin Hargrove that brakes sold by Defendant exposed Patricia Bacer
Wilson to asbestos.  
            Plaintiffs’
Objection Nos. 1-5:  Overruled.
            Plaintiffs’
Objection No. 6:  The court did not rely
on this exhibit.
Defendant’s
Objections:  The court did not rely on
the material objected to.
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)
Defendant attempts to
conclusively negate a necessary element of Plaintiffs’ case, arguing Defendant
had a different owner before October 14, 1992, during the period of exposure.  Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiffs’ parents
went to Defendant’s store from 1977 to 1991. 
(Undisputed Material Fact “UMF”) 11, 13.)  Frank Cho purchased Defendant in October
1992.  (UMF 14.)  Defendant argues that because it had a
different owner during the pre-1992 period of exposure, the current owner is
not liable. 
Generally, “the purchaser
does not assume the seller’s liabilities unless:  (1) there is an express or implied agreement
of assumption, (2) the transaction amounts to a consolidation or merger of the
two corporations, (3) the purchasing corporation is a mere continuation of the
seller, or (4) the transfer of assets to the purchaser is for the fraudulent
purpose of escaping liability for the seller’s debts.”  (Ray v. Alad (1977) 19 Cal.3d 22, 28.)  Defendant attached sales documents showing no
agreement of assumption of the prior liabilities.  To the contrary, the agreement states that the
seller will indemnify the buyer for all liability “due to matters connected
with Seller’s ownership and operation of the business prior to close of
escrow.”  (UMF 18.)
Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant has not submitted facts showing the Ray v. Alad exceptions do
not apply.  (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  Plaintiff argues that Defendant under its
current owner is a mere continuation of the business under its prior
owner.  (Opposition at p. 9.)  It operates under the same name; the current
owner purchased all of the goodwill, lease, fixtures, and equipment; the
current owner kept on some of the same employees; the business operated at the
same phone number and location for 18 years after the purchase; and the
business performed at least some of the same services before and after the
sale.  (Plaintiffs’ Disputed Material
Facts (“DMF”) 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 30.
In Ray v. Alad, the court recognized
strict tort liability for defective products when a party acquires a
manufacturing business and continues the output of its line of products
“holding itself out to potential customers as the same enterprise,” thereby
exploiting the prior business’ “established reputation as a going concern
manufacturing a specific product line.” 
(Ray, supra, 19 Cal.3d at p. 34.) 
Plaintiffs showed facts suggesting Defendant held itself out to
potential customers as the same enterprise thereby exploiting the prior
business and reputation.  Thus, there are
disputed issues of material fact regarding Defendant’s liability for pre-1992
exposure.
Defendant also contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence that Patricia Bacer was exposed to asbestos from
Defendant’s products, citing Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses.  (Motion at pp. 4-5.)  In response to interrogatories asking for all
facts, witnesses, and documents to support their claims, Plaintiffs responded
that Bacer was exposed to asbestos from the 1960s to the 1990s when her first
husband and sons worked on cars in her presence.  (Goldberg Decl., Ex. E at p. 2.)  Also Bacer launder their clothing that
allegedly was coated with asbestos-containing debris.  (Id., at pp. 2-3.)  Bacer’s husband purchased brakes and clutches
from Valley from Defendant.  (Id.,
at p. 3.)  
Assuming Defendant shifted
the burden, Plaintiffs showed disputed facts.  Plaintiffs filed additional excerpts from
Darren Hargrove’s deposition where he testified Bacer was present during
automotive repair work, including work with brakes, from 1977 to 2001.  (Plaintiffs’ Index, Ex. A at pp. 25-26.)  She assisted her sons and husband by handing
them tools.  (Ibid.)  She was present for at least 35 brake jobs.  (Id. at pp. 32-33.)  She was responsible for washing the clothing
allegedly covered in asbestos dust.  (Id.
at pp. 86, 93.) 
The motion is DENIED.  The parties are to meet and confer about how
the issue of successor liability is to be resolved.
The moving party is to
give notice.