  Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY  DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.   defendants  hallmark cards, inc., crown media holdings, inc. and hallmark media united  states, llc’s special motion to strike plaintiffs’ verified third amended  complaint pursuant to civil code procedure §425.16 (BIFURCATED ISSUE OF  TIMELINESS)   Date of Hearing:        May  24, 2024                                     Trial  Date:       None  set.  Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01458   BACKGROUND   On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs  Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against  Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,  Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The  Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass  California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)  Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)  Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent Concealment;  9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)  Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.   Plaintiffs allege about September 15,  2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis  and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in  possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and  Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute  with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was  entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further  allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta  and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the  Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently  forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a  result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff  dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields.    On March 24, 2023, this action was  related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). On August  18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly  Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason  Improta for breach of contract, money had and received, implied  indemnification, express indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants  dismissed their cause of action for express indemnification.    [Tentative] Ruling   I.                     Defendants  Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc. and Hallmark Media United  States, LLC’s Special Motion to Strike Plaintiffs Verified Third Amended  Complaint Pursuant to Civil Code Procedure §  425.16 is deemed timely in PART  AND UNTIMELY IN PART. II.                   Defendant Page Hemmis’ Motion Opposing  the Unsealing of Record under Seal Pursuant to Stipulation and Protective Order  is GRANTED.   DISCUSSION   I.                     defendants hallmark cards, inc., crown  media holdings, inc. and hallmark media united states, llc’s special motion to  strike PLAINTIFFS verified third amended complaint pursuant to civil code  procedure § 425.16 (Bifurcated issue of timeliness)   defendants Hallmark  Cards, Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., and Hallmark Media United States, LLC  (collectively “Hallmark Defendants”) move this court, pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.16, for an order striking all causes of action against  Hallmark Defendants in the Verified Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) filed by  Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis. Hallmark Defendants make the  motion on the grounds Plaintiffs’ causes of action against Hallmark Defendants  arise from conduct in furtherance of petitioning activities and the exercise of  free speech about a matter of public interest, which fall within the scope of  the SLAPP statute.    The court  decided to bifurcate and hear first the issue of whether this anti-SLAPP motion  is timely, as well as the issue of an allegedly defective notice.  This tentative will solely address these two  issues.     Request for Judicial Notice    Hallmark Defendants request this court  take judicial notice of eleven videos self-filmed by Defendant Paige Hemmis  (Exh. 1), publications about Home & Family (Exhs. 2-6), publications  about At Home With Our Family (Exhs. 7-11), publications about Page  Hemmis (Exhs. 12-14), screenshots of public comments on Paige Hemmis’ videos  for At Home With Our Family (Exhs. 15-20), and Governor Gavin Newsom’s COVID-19  stay-at-home order, Executive Order N-33-20, issued by the Executive Department  of the State of California on March 19, 2020 (Exh. 21).    Hallmark Defendants also request this  court take judicial notice of several court documents including Plaintiffs’  original complaint, First Amended Complaint, compendium of evidence submitted  in support of Hallmark Defendants’ Special Motion to Strike, a court order,  Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint, and Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint.  (See Exhs 1-6.)    The court GRANTS Hallmark Defendants’  request for judicial notice.    Objections   Plaintiffs object to the reply brief  submitted by the Hallmark Defendants in conjunction with the court  ordered-briefing on their anti-SLAPP motion on the grounds (1) the reply brief  was 12 1/12 pages, which violates the requirements for reply briefs put forward  by California Rule of Court 3.1113; and (2) it introduces entirely new  arguments to justify its lack of timeliness that were never in the original  motion.   On April 17, 2024, this court ordered  the ‘Opposition and reply to be filed per code.’ This includes complying with California  Rule of Court 3.1113(d). Despite Hallmark Defendants’ submission of an overlong  brief, the court, in its discretion, will consider the briefing in its  entirety. As for Hallmark Defendants’ ‘new argument’ that Hallmark Media should  be treated directly because they were added as a new defendant, Plaintiffs were  capable of addressing this contention in their brief and the court finds they  are not prejudiced by such contention.    Notice    Plaintiffs argue there is an initial  threshold issue by which the court can dispose of this entire motion.  Plaintiffs contend the anti-SLAPP lumps together all the causes of action  together without any discussion of how the protected activity comprises part of  the claim’s elements, the actions alleged to establish those elements, and why  those actions are protected. Plaintiffs cite Park v. Nazari (2023) 93  Cal. App. 5th 1099 to support this contention that Plaintiffs and the court  cannot be forced to undergo this claim-by-claim analysis for them and  therefore, the motion must be denied in full.    In Park, the court held “while  courts may strike less than the entirety of a complaint or pleaded cause of  action, the trial court is not required to take on the burden of identifying  the allegations susceptible to a special motion to strike. If a defendant wants  the trial court to take a surgical approach, whether in the alternative or not,  the defendant must propose where to make the incisions. This is done by  identifying, in the initial motion, each numbered paragraph or sentence in the  complaint that comprises a challenged claim and explaining ‘the claim's  elements, the actions alleged to establish those elements, and wh[y] those  actions are protected.’ [Citation.]” (Park v. Nazari (2023) 93  Cal.App.5th 1099, 1109.) In other words, “[i]f a cause of action contains  multiple claims and a moving party fails to identify how the speech or conduct  underlying some of those claims is protected activity, it will not carry its  first-step burden as to those claims. [Citation.] The nonmovant is not faced  with the burden of having to make the moving party's case for it.” (Bonni v.  St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1011.)    Hallmark Defendants argue for each of  the six causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that Hallmark Defendants are  vicariously liable on the grounds that Hemmis and Short were acting as Hallmark  Defendants’ agents in connection with their wrongdoing. Hallmark Defendants’  SLAPP motion seeks to strike these agency allegations on the grounds that  Hallmark Defendants’ liability is premised on protected conduct, namely the  supposed ratification of Hemmis’s conduct by continuing to display her videos  after learning of her wrongdoing in this litigation. Hallmark Defendants this  action is not like Park because here, Hallmark Defendants have  identified the allegations of protected activity and explained how these  allegations relate to the causes of action. To the extent the court believes  that the claims are mixed and a surgical approach is required, Hallmark  Defendants request leave to file an amended notice specifying the allegations  that should be stricken.    The court finds notice was sufficient.  This is not like Park where the moving defendants moved to strike only  the entire complaint and did not identify in their motion individual claims or  allegations that should be stricken yet sought the court to strike portions of  plaintiffs’ claims even if the court did not strike the complaint in its  entirety. Here, the anti-SLAPP motion sufficiently identifies specific claims  for relief that are asserted to arise from protected activity, i.e., Hallmark  Defendants gained knowledge of Hemmis and Short’s misconduct through the  instant lawsuit and ratified their misconduct by continuing to display Hemmis’s  AHWOF videos. The court further notes that the Halmark defendants should not be  precluded from seeking relief under the Anti-SLAPP statute because plaintiffs  have made their complaint so long and convoluted that it would be extremely  laborious to tease out the multiple allegations that relate to the broadcasts  by the Hallmark defendants.     Timeliness   Hallmark Defendants initially contend  their anti-SLAPP motion is timely due to new allegations in the TAC.  Specifically, while this action was initially filed on September 30, 2022, Hallmark  Defendants aver Plaintiffs raised for the first time in their TAC allegations  that Hallmark Defendants gained knowledge of Hemmis’ alleged misconduct by  accepting service of this lawsuit and submitting verified discovery responses  in this very litigation, and have ratified the misconduct by continuing to  display Hemmis’s AHWOF videos online. (TAC ¶¶ 65-76, 125-127, 205-206.) As a  result, these allegations are wholly new and target Hallmark Defendants’  protected activity under the SLAPP statute, making this instant motion timely.   “’An amended complaint reopens the time  to file an anti-SLAPP motion without court permission only if the amended  complaint pleads new causes of action that could not have been the target of a  prior anti-SLAPP motion, or adds new allegations that make previously pleaded  causes of action subject to an anti-SLAPP motion.’” (Newport Harbor  Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 641.)  If the amended complaint does not do so, the anti-SLAPP motion is considered  untimely unless the court affirmatively exercises its’ discretion to permit  Defendant to file such a motion. (Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Oracle Corp.  (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1186.)    In Newport, the Supreme Court of  California held “[i]n this case, as the trial court noted when it exercised its  discretion to deny a late filing, much litigation, including discovery, had  already been conducted for two years before the anti-SLAPP motion brought it to  a halt. It is far too late for the anti-SLAPP statute to fulfill its purpose of  resolving the case promptly and inexpensively. ‘An anti-SLAPP motion is not a  vehicle for a defendant to obtain a dismissal of claims in the middle of  litigation; it is a procedural device to prevent costly, unmeritorious  litigation at the initiation of the lawsuit.’ [Citation.] To minimize this  problem, section 425.16, subdivision (f), should be interpreted to permit an  anti-SLAPP motion against an amended complaint if it could not have been  brought earlier, but to prohibit belated motions that could have been brought  earlier (subject to the trial court's discretion to permit a late motion). This  interpretation maximizes the possibility the anti-SLAPP statute will fulfill  its purpose while reducing the potential for abuse.” (Newport Harbor  Ventures, supra, 4 Cal.5th at p. 645.)    Plaintiffs argue this action is a  poster child for the abuse discussed in Newport. Plaintiffs state they  have not added any new causes of action to the TAC. As for the paragraphs  identified by Hallmark Defendants, Plaintiffs argue every version of the  complaint has alleged that the basis for Hallmark's liability is their  displaying images of the Plaintiffs' homes through visual media or broadcasts  and that Ms. Hemmis is their agent. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 68, 82, 102; FAC, ¶¶ 87,  113, 136; SAC, ¶¶ 105, 137, 160; TAC, ¶¶ 132, 166, 191; Complaint, ¶¶ 67, 69,  81, 83, 101, 103; FAC, ¶¶ 86, 88, 112, 114, 116, 135, 137; SAC, ¶¶ 58, 101,  104, 106, 136, 159, 161, 274; TAC, ¶¶ 64-65, 67, 69-70, 74, 101, 121-123, 130-  131, 133, 161, 165, 181, 190-193, 202-203, 207, 268, 315, 325, 332.)  Accordingly, Hallmark Defendants could have made these exact same arguments in  response to the Second Amended Complaint, which was filed on May 30, 2023.    In respect to the other two causes of  action that do make more substantive amendments, Plaintiffs argue the Hallmark  Defendants fail to specifically address the elements of those causes of action  individually or provide reasoned argument as to why the Plaintiff’s claims in  proving the elements stem from protected activity. Plaintiffs contend the Hallmark  Defendants are explicitly not being sued for their employees signing  verifications, and nothing in the complaint says that. If anything, the only  relevance of the verifications is that it is evidence of these individuals’  decision to ratify the conduct of Ms. Hemmis in continuing to display the  images online. Plaintiffs cite Jespersen v. Zubiate-Beauchamp (2003) 114  Cal.App.4th 624 to support their contention. In Jespersen, the attorney  defendants brought an anti-SLAPP motion on the contention the protected conduct  or speech was the filing of attorney declarations in support of a motion  brought pursuant to section 473. The court found, however, the attorney  defendants were not sued for having negligently filed declarations, but for  their failure to comply with a discovery statute and two court orders to do so.  As a result, the court found the attorney defendants failed to demonstrate that  such conduct amounts to constitutionally protected speech or petition.  Similarly, Plaintiffs contend Hallmark Defendants are not being sued for their  employees signing verifications and if anything, the only relevance of the  verifications is that it is evidence of these individuals’ decision to ratify  the conduct of Ms. Hemmis in continuing to display the images online.    Hallmark Defendants argue it is clear  that Hallmark Defendants could not have brought their SLAPP motion earlier  because the TAC reveals for the first time the factual basis for Hallmark  Defendants’ agency liability. Specifically, Plaintiffs’ TAC reveals for the  first time that agency liability is premised on ratification through knowledge  gained in this lawsuit and the continued display of Hemmis’s videos. Hallmark  Defendants contend while agency was plead in conclusory terms previously,  Hallmark Defendants could not possibly have guessed that their litigation  activity after the filing of the SAC, including the verifications they served  on October 10, 2023, would be the basis for Plaintiffs’ assertion of agency  liability. Additionally, Jespersen with the one exception that is not  applicable here (litigation privilege does not bar liability from statements in  malpractice claims). (See Kolar v. Donahue, McIntosh & Hammerton  (2006) 145 Cal. App. 4th 1532, 1541.)    The court finds the TAC merely  amplifies the existing allegations of agency and ratification set forth in the  Second Amended Complaint, at least as to Hallmark Cards, Inc. and Crown Media  Holdings.  The SAC alleged that these two  entities were liable for Hemmis and Short’s misdeeds (Trespass, Negligence and  other causes of action) because Hemmis and Short were their agents, and they  ratified their trespass and other malicious acts by broadcasting shows produced  in plaintiffs’ home.  (E.g., SAC, paragraphs  100-103.)  Thus, these two defendants were  on notice as early as June 1, 2023 when the SAC was filed, that they were being  sued based, in part, on their airing of shows allegedly produced in property  fraudulently obtained by their agent from plaintiffs.   The TAC only gives more detail to these  allegations and specifies that the show has been aired repeatedly since this  litigation was commenced, as well as promoted on social media.   The two original Hallmark Defendants knew  that their broadcasts were at the core of plaintiffs’ claims against them but  did not seek to bring a special motion to strike claims based on protected  speech.   As such, they cannot bring a  special motion to strike claims based on those same broadcasts at this late  date. They also cannot retrigger the filing deadline for bringing a special  motion to strike based on discovery responses.   Those responses and verifications do not form the basis of any claim  against these defendants.     However, the TAC adds a new party,  Hallmark Media, that could not have brought a SLAPP motion earlier, and must be  permitted to attack the pleadings. Hallmark Media was first added to this  lawsuit with the filing of the TAC on February 6, 2024. Hallmark Defendants  cite Gallanis-Politis v. Medina (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 600 to support  this contention. In Gallanis-Politis, a Los Angeles County employee initially  sued the County and a County official. In the employee’s third amended  complaint, she asserted a retaliation claim and sued two other County  supervisory employees as additional defendants with respect to that  claim. The two supervisors filed a special motion to strike the complaint under  the anti-SLAPP statute and the Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s  decision denying the anti-SLAPP motion, finding that the newly added  defendants’ statements and conduct was covered by the SLAPP statute.    Plaintiffs contend Hallmark Defendants  did not address this contention in their original motion and even so, Hallmark  Media should be equitably estopped from arguing otherwise. The only reason  Hallmark Media was added as a Defendant in this case was due to the other  Hallmark Defendants repeated statements that Hallmark Media was the “correct”  and “proper” Defendant. As a result, a party is not a "proper"  Defendant if the entire case should be dismissed against them as a result of  the case being brought against them containing allegations of "protected  activity" and not having “minimal merit.”    The court agrees with Hallmark Media  that it also could not have brought their SLAPP motion earlier. Whether or not  Hallmark Defendants are the ones who convinced Plaintiffs to name Hallmark  Media as a proper defendant, if a complaint alleges conduct which arises from  protected activity, then such activity may be the subject of a SLAPP motion.    II.                   DEFENDANT PAGE  HEMMIS’ MOTION OPPOSING THE UNSEALING OF RECORD UNDER SEAL PURSUANT TO  STIPULATION AND PROTECTIVE ORDER   Defendant Paige Hemmis opposes the  unsealing of any and all lodged documents designated as “confidential” and  marked Exhibits 19, 20 and 21 attached to the declaration of Mr. Goodell in  connection with Plaintiff’s motion.     Pursuant to California Rules of Court  Rule 2.551 (b)(3)(B) the party that produced the documents and was served with  the notice of lodgment must file a motion or an application to seal the records  within 10 days or to obtain a court order extending the time to file such a  motion or an application. If the party files a motion or an application to seal  within 10 days or such later time as the court has ordered, these documents are  to remain conditionally under seal until the court rules on the motion or application  and thereafter are to be filed as ordered by the court.   On November 8, 2023 this court entered  an Order pursuant to stipulation of the parties that documents marked as  confidential by any party producing any such document remain  "confidential" and be "sealed" upon submission to the  court. (Ring Decl., Exh. A.) Defendant contends the exhibits include  communications exchanged between Hemmis and various “Hallmark” related  individuals and include Hemmis’ private financial affairs unrelated to any  subject matter to this action. Notwithstanding the documents are irrelevant,  Defendant Hemmis contends Plaintiffs’ objectives can be accomplished without  the documents being unsealed. The court finds Hemmis has substantially complied  with CRC Rule 2.550(d).    According, Defendant Hemmis’ motion is  GRANTED. The documents marked “confidential” and lodged as Exhibits 19, 20 and  21 to the declaration of Mr. Goodell are SEALED. KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.

 

MOTION FOR SPECIFIED DISCOVERY and
demurrer with motion to strike 

 

Date of Hearing:        May
24, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None
set. 

Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01458

 

BACKGROUND

 

On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.

 

Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 

 

On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). On August
18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly
Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason
Improta for breach of contract, money had and received, implied
indemnification, express indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants
dismissed their cause of action for express indemnification. 

 

[Tentative] Ruling

 

I.                   
Plaintiffs’
“Motion for Specified Discovery” to Oppose Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown Media
Holdings, Inc. and Hallmark Media United States, LLC’s Anti-SLAPP Motion
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 425.16(g) is GRANTED. 

II.                 
Defendant Paige Hemmis', Jason Short's
and Paige Hemmis, Inc.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint with Motion to
Strike is SUSTAINED, IN PART AND OVERRULED, IN PART. 

III.               
Defendants Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown
Media Holdings, Inc., and Hallmark Media United States, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Verified Third Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 

 

DISCUSSION

 

I.                   
PLAINTIFFS’ “MOTION FOR SPECIFIED DISCOVERY” TO OPPOSE HALLMARK CARDS,
INC., CROWN MEDIA HOLDINGS, INC. AND HALLMARK MEDIA UNITED STATES, LLC’S
ANTI-SLAPP MOTION PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE 425.16(G) 

 

Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis move the court for an order allowing specified discovery to oppose
Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., and Hallmark Media United
States, LLC’s anti-SLAPP Motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 425.16(g). 

 

Request for
Judicial Notice

 

Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis request this court take judicial notice of
several court filings in support of their motion for specified discovery. (See
Exhs. 1-8). In Reply, Plaintiffs further request this court take judicial
notice of another court filing involving ex parte application. (Exh. 1.)

 

The court
GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. (See Evid. Code §452(d).) 

 

Evidentiary
Objection

 

Plaintiffs
submit objections to the declaration of Christina M. Salvato made in support of
Hallmark Defendants’ Opposition to Plaintiffs’ “Motion for Specified Discovery”
pursuant to CCP § 425.16(g).

 

The court
OVERRULES Objection Nos. 1-3. 

 

Code of Civil Procedure §425.16(g)

 

If a plaintiff believes that discovery
is necessary to oppose an anti-SLAPP motion, Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16(g) expressly requires the filing of a noticed motion. (Robertson v.
Rodriguez (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 347.) The plaintiff may not simply oppose
the anti-SLAPP motion by insisting that discovery is needed. A plaintiff
must also show “good cause” before taking any discovery after the filing of an
anti-SLAPP motion. (CCP § 425.16(g).) “Good cause” means only discovery
relevant to the plaintiff’s burden of establishing a “reasonable probability of
prevailing on the claim” (CCP § 425.16(b)(3).) Discovery that is not relevant
to a legal defense being asserted by the defendant in the anti-SLAPP motion is
not permitted. (Blanchard v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 903,
922.) Plaintiff must demonstrate the facts they expect to uncover in their
discovery. (Id.) 

 

Plaintiffs assert that although
Hallmark Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion is severely untimely, there exists good
cause to conduct limited discovery. Specifically, Hallmark Defendants’
anti-SLAPP argument as to why Plaintiffs do not have the "minimal
merit" required to defeat the Hallmark Defendants motion is that Ms.
Hemmis was not their agent and that she did not act within the scope of her
agency. As such, at a bare minimum, Plaintiffs contend they are entitled to a
deposition of Ms. Hemmis and the PMQ of Hallmark Defendants. Plaintiffs claim deposing
Ms. Hemmis and the Hallmark PMQ witnesses will help establish at least the
following – (1) that the Hallmark Defendants obviously control the content
displayed on their online websites and their broadcasts (as such, they have a
right to direct and control what Ms. Hemmis did, thereby tending to finding
that she is an agent; (2) that there was obviously some sort of an agreement -
written or oral - for her work on “Home and Family” and “At Home with Our
Family”; (3) the frequency and duration of compensation for Ms. Hemmis and her
work, which is also relevant to establishing an agency relationship; (4) at
least some of the Hallmark-related employees and agents that visited the
property do so as a work-related nature for Hallmark; (5) Ms. Hemmis actions of
filming the online segments inside of the Home were "broadly
incidental" to her work on the show for the Hallmark Defendants. Lastly,
Plaintiffs argue the fact Plaintiffs have propounded written discovery on
Hemmis and the Hallmark Defendants is irrelevant to whether this motion should
be granted. Plaintiffs contend there is no substitute for cross-examination on
these discrete issues from important witnesses to this case. 

 

The Hemmis/Short Defendants and
Hallmark Defendants both submit oppositions to Plaintiffs’ motion. First, Hemmis/Short
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have previously propounded sufficient written
discovery on the issue of "agency" relating to the Hallmark
defendants and any special setting of a Hemmis deposition session is
unwarranted. Hemmis/Short Defendants contend the parties in fact have already
set a “priority” scheduling for depositions and Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated good cause for altering that schedule. In the event the court grants
the motion, Hemmis/Short Defendants request strict guidelines as to the subject
matter of the deposition, the time limit be no more than two hours, and is
conducted remotely. Moreover, Hemmis/Short Defendants request any time utilized
by Plaintiffs for the specially set deposition of Hemmis should also be
allocated to Plaintiffs' maximum amount of time allowed to depose defendant
Hemmis in this action.

 

The Hallmark Defendants argue there are
several grounds for denying Plaintiffs’ Motion. First, no discovery is
“necessary” because Hallmark Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion is resolvable as a
matter of law, and no amount of discovery will cure Plaintiffs’ pleading
defects. Second, Plaintiffs are already in possession of ample written
discovery and documents concerning the facts they seek to establish, all of
which show that there is no basis for imposing agency liability. Third,
Plaintiffs’ proposed discovery merely seeks to “test” Hallmark Defendants’
evidence, and it is well established that this cannot be the basis for allowing
discovery. Fourth, Plaintiffs’ requested discovery would not affect the outcome
of the SLAPP motion because Plaintiffs seek general facts regarding the
existence of an agency relationship, not targeted facts establishing agency
liability. 

 

The court finds that Plaintiffs have established
good cause for obtaining limited discovery that will support a reasonable
probability of prevailing on their claims including that Ms. Hemmis was the
agent of the newly added Hallmark Defendant, that she did act within the scope
of her agency, and the newly added Hallmark Defendant ratified her conduct.  The court has separately determined that the
anti-SLAPP motion brought by Hallmark Cards, Inc. and Crown Media is untimely.
Although Plaintiffs have conducted written discovery, “all admissions elicited
in the course of discovery are not created equal.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1522.) As noted in Scalf,
“[t]here is a vast difference between written discovery admissions, which are “
‘a studied response, made under sanctions against easy denials,’ that occur
‘under the direction and supervision of counsel, who has full professional
realization of their significance’ ” (1 Hogan & Weber, Cal. Civil Discovery
(1997) § 9.20, p. 508) and glib, easily misunderstood answers given by a lay
opponent in a deposition.” (Ibid.) As such, the fact that written
discovery has been propounded, does not mean the deposition will elicit the
same responses. Moreover, the issue of agency is relevant to Hallmark
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion as the deposition may go into Hallmark
Defendants’ ratification and whether Ms. Hemmis was acting within the course
and scope of her employment. 

 

As for Hemmis/Short Defendants’
request, Plaintiffs submits that she be permitted to depose Ms. Hemmis for five
hours (rather than two) and since the deposition is limited, Plaintiff should
be permitted another five hours after this deposition concludes. Plaintiffs
also contend the deposition should be in person rather than zoom because live
examination of a witness is strongly preferred and moreover, Plaintiffs call
into question Ms. Hemmis’ ability to comply with certain rules. 

 

The
court finds that the time should be limited to two hours, that the deposition
will be conducted remotely and that these hours will count against the ordinary
seven hours allotted for a deposition.  Plaintiff
also will have the opportunity to take a two hour of the new Hallmark
Defendant’s PMQ, on the limited issue of whether or not Hemmis acted as its
agent, or it authorized or ratified the alleged wrongful takeover of the
plaintiff’s home and subsequent broadcasts. 


 

Accordingly, the motion for specified
discovery is GRANTED, expressly limited to the issue of agency including course
and scope of employment and ratification. 

 

II.                 
DEFENDANT PAIGE
HEMMIS', JASON SHORT'S AND PAIGE HEMMIS, INC.’S DEMURRER TO THIRD AMENDED
COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE


Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short,
and Paige Hemmis, Inc. (“Hemmis/Short Defendants”) move the court for an order
sustaining the Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) along with a motion to strike portions of the TAC. 

 

Request for Judicial Notice

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants request this
court take judicial notice of (1) Defendants Kimberly M. Davis and Jonathan M.
Davis' Answer and Counterclaim filed in the matter entitled U.S. Bank
National Association, et al. v. Kimberly M. Davis, et al., United States
District Court Central District of California Case No. 2:20-cv-08196-SB-PD
(Exh. A); (2)  Defendants Kimberly M.
Davis 11 and Jonathan M. Davis' First Amended Answer and Counterclaim filed in
the matter entitled U.S. 12 Bank National Association, et al. v. Kimberly M.
Davis, et al., United States District Court 13 Central District of
California Case No. 2:20-cv-08196-SB-PD (Exh. B); and (3) Kimberly Davis and
Jonathan Davis’ First Amended Complaint filed in the matter entitled Kimberly
Davis, et al. v. U.S. Bank National Association, et al. Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 23VECV01125 (Exh. C). 

 

Plaintiffs object to this request for
judicial notice on the grounds it is improper to take judicial notice of their
proffered interpretations of documents or statements made by witnesses. 

 

The court GRANTS Hemmis/Short
Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to the existence of the documents.
(See Evid. Code §452(d).)

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs request the
court take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiffs’ complaint for forcible detainer
in Kimberly Davis v. Paige Huff Hemmis, et al., Case No. 22VECV00878
(Exh. 1); (2) Stipulation to Set Aside Entry of Default as to Defendants Paige
Hemmis, Paige Hemmis, Inc., and Jason Short and Order Thereon in Case No.
22VECV00878 (Exh. 2); (3) Declaration of Nelson Goodell in Support of
Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Person
Most Qualified of Google, LLC in Case No. 22VECV00878 (Exh. 3); and (4) Statement
of Information – Corporation for Paige Hemmis, Inc. filed with the State of
California, Office of the Secretary of State, File No. BA20240821359 (Exh. 4). 

 

The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 

 

First Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
first cause of action for Intentional Interference with Contract on the grounds
the action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Defendants and is uncertain. 

 

“To prevail on a cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations, a plaintiff must plead and
prove (1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third
party; (2) the defendant's knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant's
intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
and (5) resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140,
1148.)  

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue Plaintiffs'
make no allegations in the TAC that Defendant Jason Short or Defendant Paige Hemmis,
Inc. had any knowledge of a settlement existing as between U.S. Bank and
Plaintiffs. All allegations of "knowledge" are solely directed to Defendant
Hemmis. Moreover, the TAC simply alleges Defendant Paige Hemmis knew of the
settlement agreement " ... as it was discussed in detail in U.S. Bank's
lawsuit" and that defendant Paige Hemmis " ... was mentioned in
Plaintiffs' counterclaim." According to Defendants, these allegations do
not sufficiently plead "knowledge" as to defendant Paige Hemmis.
Hemmis/Short Defendants go on to argue that there is no “option to buy” in the
agreement and the allegations in the action in the related case are
inconsistent with the TAC including the alleged breach by U.S. Bank, which
allegedly occurred three months prior to Hemmis/Short Defendants taking
occupancy of the property. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
Plaintiff's complaint plainly alleges that Ms. Hemmis and Mr. Short knew about
the settlement agreement. Plaintiffs contend they are not required to allege
how the Defendants came to learn of the settlement agreement. However, it is
undisputed Defendants were represented by counsel after they were subpoenaed
and communicated with US Bank’s counsel regarding that case and that they
asserted their rights to the property to US Bank and sought to have the
Plaintiff mediate the Plaintiff's claims with them and US Bank. Next,
Plaintiffs contend it is black letter California law that a party does not have
to show that the intentional acts were designed to induce a breach, but must
merely a show a disruption. (See Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear
Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1127.) 

 

The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. The complaint sufficiently alleges
the existence of the settlement agreement between Plaintiffs and US Bank,
Hemmis/Short Defendants’ knowledge of that settlement agreement via their
non-party involvement in the lawsuit (i.e., being subpoenaed), and the
Hemmis/Short Defendants’ intention to disrupt the settlement agreement by
making any potential loan much more expensive in that Plaintiffs could not
regain possession of the property and could not qualify for owner-occupied
financing. Taking the allegations as true, all three defendants had knowledge
of this. Moreover, as noted above, the complaint also adequately provides that
Defendants’ misconduct, prevented Plaintiffs from obtaining owner-occupied
financing. The specifics of how Mr. Short and Paige Hemmis, Inc. came to find
out from Ms. Hemmis and the conduct specifically disrupting the relationship
between Plaintiffs and US Bank are matters for discovery. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 

Seventh Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
seventh cause of action for Violation of Business and Professions Code Section
17200 on the grounds the action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Defendants and is uncertain. 

 

California Business and Professions
Code section 17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act
or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)  “An unlawful business practice or act
is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the
same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) The fraudulent prong of a UCL claim is less
rigorous than common law fraud as common law fraud requires allegations of
actual falsity and reasonable reliance while fraud under UCL does not. (See Morgan
v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1235,
1256.) “A business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it
violates established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive
or unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) 

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue the UCL
does not apply to Hemmis/Short Defendants. Plaintiffs have alleged defendants “forged”
a lease. There is no allegation of any such conduct by defendants before or
since. There is no advertisement alleged. The “deceptive” practice is nowhere
established or alleged. There is no allegation as to defendants Paige Hemmis
and Jason Short they were engaging in any sort of “business practice.”
Moreover, Plaintiffs improperly seek damages. Hemmis/Short Defendants argue Defendants
have no funds to return and there is no claim Defendants took money from the
Plaintiffs. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants
are still claiming that they have a title and possessory interest in their home
and need to be enjoined. Here, Defendants were clearly engaged in unlawful
business activity at the Plaintiff's home, per the allegations of the
complaint. They filmed an online broadcast the property, from which they
profited from. Moreover, they sought to fraudulently acquire the Plaintiff's
home at a below market rate and conspired with real estate brokers and the homeowner’s
association to do so. Turning to the type of relief, Plaintiffs contend they
request injunctive relief in their prayer for relief. Lastly, Plaintiffs cite
to Campbell v. FPI Management, Inc. (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1151 to support their
disgorgement claim. 

 

The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. A business “practice” can violate §
17200 even though it does not affect more than a single “victim.” (See Allied
Grape Growers v. Bronco Wine Co. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 432, 453.)
Therefore, Plaintiffs do not need to allege any such conduct by defendants
before or since. The complaint also alleges unfair business practices including
entering a fraudulent lease and conspiring to steal title from Plaintiffs’
home. Lastly, the complaint properly seeks injunctive relief and restitution. 

 

However, the court agrees Plaintiffs
cannot seek disgorgement. This contention will be further discussed in
Hemmis/Short Defendants’ motion to strike. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 

Ninth Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
ninth cause of action for Negligent Misrepresentation on the grounds the action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants and is uncertain. 

 

The elements of a claim for negligent
misrepresentation are “‘[M]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage… [citation omitted]” (Hydro-Mill Co. Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & RolappIns. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154 [citation omitted].)  

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue Plaintiffs'
TAC fails to state facts sufficient to maintain this cause of action.
Specifically, there was never any reliance on any fact allegedly misrepresented
by Defendants. Defendants contend at all times Plaintiffs have alleged,
unequivocally, they never entered into any transaction, deny signing any lease
agreement or addendum, deny knowing of or ever hearing of defendants Paige
Hemmis and Jason Short until June 2020. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue reliance
is presumed as a matter of law if the misrepresentation is material. In the
case at bench, as explained in paragraph 282 of the complaint, Ms. Hemmis and
Mr. Short represented to the Plaintiff in September 2020 that there had been no
fraud on their part, and that they “believed the document and her use of the
property had been legitimate, and the lessor must have been an impostor, a
representation upon which Plaintiffs relied.” 

 

The court finds Plaintiffs have failed
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for negligent misrepresentation. “A
plaintiff may plead inconsistent counts or causes of action in a verified
complaint, but this rule does not entitle a party to describe the same
transaction as including contradictory or antagonistic facts. 
[Citations.]  In such circumstances, [a trial court] may accept as true
the more specific allegations.  [Citation.]  In addition, ‘[a] court
may take judicial notice of something that cannot reasonably be controverted
[such as a recorded deed], even if it negates an express allegation of the
pleading.’  [Citation.]”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1381–82.) 

 

The complaint alleges Plaintiffs never
signed a lease with the Defendants and repeatedly asked Defendants to leave the
property throughout 2021 and 2022. The complaint further alleges though that
they discovered the fraud in September 2020 but when confronted, Defendants misrepresented
the fact there was no lease by presenting as evidence what they claim was a legitimate
lease. Plaintiffs also allege the Defendants did this for Plaintiffs to rely on
their misrepresentations (that the lease was legitimate) and insisted there was
no fraud on their part. Even if Plaintiffs “would not realize that Ms. Hemmis
herself was the fraudster”, it is not clear Plaintiffs’ relied on her statement
that it was a legitimate lease when they allege from the beginning they never
entered such a lease. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

 

Eleventh Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
eleventh cause of action Slander of Title on the grounds the action fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants and
is uncertain. 

 

“The elements of a cause of action for
slander of title are (1) a publication, which is (2) without privilege or
justification, (3) false, and (4) causes pecuniary loss.” (La Jolla Group II
v. Bruce (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 461, 472.)  

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue Plaintiffs'
Slander of Title is premised upon a claim that Defendants Paige Hemmis and
Jason Short asserted to Defendant U.S. Bank that “ ... they possessed a lease
with an option to buy ... “ (TAC ¶316.) However, no dates of any such
representation is included in the TAC nor are there any details provided as to
exactly whom the communication was made other than to “U.S. Bank.” Moreover, the
publication to any third party there existed a residential lease agreement does
not "cloud" title. A residential lease agreement does not ever invalidate
title to real property. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
explicitly language of the contract, combined with fundamental principles of
California law, clearly indicate that Ms. Hemmis' claim of title in her claim
for a right of first refusal alone provides for a viable Slander of Title
claim. Plaintiffs contend the terms of the right of first refusal state that Ms.
Hemmis retains her right until September 2024, and Plaintiffs are damaged by
having her ability to sell the property diminished during this time-period. As
such, that is all that is necessary for a viable slander of title claim. 

 

The court finds the allegations
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. Plaintiffs concede the lease
agreement contains a ‘right of first refusal’ clause. However, the court finds
under the allegations Defendants published the lease agreement to US Bank, a
jury may find that such a ‘false statement’ may have resulted in Plaintiffs
title to the property being in question for years, which harmed their ability
to resolve their long-running dispute with US Bank. For example, Baker v.
Kale (1947) 83 Cal.App.2d 89 involved an action for slander of title to a
leasehold interest in real property. The court denied Defendants’ motion for
nonsuit where Plaintiff alleged a valid lease and an option to renew it, and by
Defendant stating the prospective purchaser that Plaintiff had no lease induced
a purchaser of the leasehold interest to breach his contract. As such, the
court finds Plaintiff may state a claim for slander of title for a leasehold.
Moreover, Plaintiff need not allege the date the publication was made on
demurrer. 

 

The court will address the emotional
distress claims in the motion to strike. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the
eleventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 

Twelfth Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
twelfth cause of action for Wrongful Eviction on the grounds the action fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants
and is uncertain. 

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue there is
no statutory or legal basis for this claim. One case, Allen v. McMillion
(1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 211, Defendants argue that case involved "forcible
entry" or "self-help" and here, that is not alleged. According
to Defendants, the complaint alleges Defendants Jason Short and Paige Hemmis
had peaceable possession of the property from September, 2019 through July,
2021 when they voluntarily vacated the property. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue there
is ample authority that an owner of a piece of real property in California has
a viable wrongful eviction claim when he or she are locked out of their
property without permission. (Karp v. Margolis (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 69;
Makreas v. First National Bank of Northern California, et al., WL
2436589, (N.D. Cal., June 4, 2013, No. 11cv02234JST).)   

 

The court finds Plaintiffs failed to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for wrongful eviction.
All cases cited by Plaintiffs revolve around forcible entry. Plaintiffs have
not alleged such facts here. As alleged, Plaintiffs were wrongfully evicted via
Defendants’ fraudulent conduct.  The
court also knows of no precedent to allow an owner to sue its tenants or those
who claim to be tenants for wrongful eviction. 
If that were the case, could not every landlord sue their tenants who
hold over for wrongful eviction?  This
court sees no reason to expend tort remedies in this manner. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the
eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 

 

Thirteenth Cause of Action

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants demur to the
thirteenth cause of action for Constructive Fraud on the grounds the action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendants and is uncertain. 

 

Constructive fraud “is a unique species
of fraud applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship.” (Prakashpalan
v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack¿(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105.) It arises
when there is a breach of duty in a confidential or fiduciary relationship
which induces justifiable reliance. (Id.) “Constructive fraud allows
conduct insufficient to constitute actual fraud to be treated as such where the
parties stand in a fiduciary relationship.” (Estate of Gump¿(1991) 1
Cal.App.4th 582, 601.) 

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants argue Plaintiffs
have alleged no facts to support any fiduciary relationship as between
Plaintiffs on the one hand and defendant Paige Hemmis and Jason Short on the
other hand. Moreover, the TAC makes clear Plaintiffs never entered into any
agreement with defendants Jason Short and Paige Hemmis. Moreover, any claim for
vicarious liability being heaped on defendants Paige Hemmis and Jason Short
remains wholly dependent on Improta/Compass first being found a fiduciary of
Plaintiffs. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they
have already plead a cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, which
Compass and the Improta’s have not challenged. Clearly, Compass owed Plaintiffs a
fiduciary duty and Hemmis, Short, and Hemmis, Inc. aiding-and abetting a breach
of those duties renders them liable as well. 

 

The court finds Plaintiffs have failed
to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for constructive fraud.
Plaintiffs do not allege Hemmis/Short Defendants aided and abetted Compass’
breach of the fiduciary duty or that the separately owed a fiduciary duty to
plaintiff. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the
thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

 

Motion to Strike 

 

 

Hemmis/Short Defendants move to strike
the following portions of the TAC: Page
47, para. 276, Page 48, para. 277, Page 48, para. 279, Page 57 para 329, and Page
61 of the TAC at prayer 3 and 5. 

 

Regarding Plaintiffs’ disgorgement
allegations, in Campbell v. FPI Management, Inc. (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th
1151, the plaintiff sought a restitution award based on the monetary equivalent
of the loss of property rights they suffered as a result of the housing
management’s unlawful termination of their tenancies and to disgorge profits
that the housing management earned from its unlawful management practices. The
court found “a plaintiff may recover monetary restitution for the loss of
rental property when the court lacks the ability to make the plaintiff whole by
restoring the property interest.” (Campbell v. FPI Management, Inc.
(2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1151, 1172.) 

 

Here, the court finds Plaintiffs have
not sufficiently alleged facts support a claim for disgorgement in their
Business and Professions Code section 17200 claim.  As such, the court GRANTS the motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ claim for disgorgement. 

 

Plaintiffs concede they are not seeking
damages for emotional distress for their slander of title cause of action.
Accordingly, the court strikes the portion of Paragraph 329: “The Plaintiffs
also suffered substantial emotional distress as a result of being locked out of
their home for nearly three years.” 

 

The court notes Defendants seek to
strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees and enjoining Defendants from
pursuing damages related to the fraudulent lease yet make no argument. As such,
the court denies the motion to strike. 

 

III.               
DEFENDANTS
HALLMARK CARDS, INC., CROWN MEDIA HOLDINGS, INC., AND HALLMARK MEDIA UNITED
STATES, LLC’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ VERIFIED THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT

 

Defendants Hallmark Cards, Inc., Crown
Media Holdings, Inc., and Hallmark Media United States, LLC demur to the TAC on
the grounds Plaintiffs fail to, and cannot, sufficiently allege that Defendants
Paige Hemmis and Jason Short were acting as Hallmark Defendants’ agents in
connection with any of their alleged wrongdoing and Hallmark Defendants were
invited by one in possession of the property and Plaintiffs suffered no damage
as a result of their alleged trespass. 

 

Request for Judicial Notice

 

In Reply, Hallmark Defendants request
this court take judicial notice of certain court documents including proofs of
service, transcripts of hearings, declarations, and orders file din the instant
matter. (See RJN, Exhs. 1-7.) The court GRANTS Hallmark Defendants’ request for
judicial notice. 

 

Objections

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs submit
objections to the declaration of Christina M. Salvato in support of Hallmark
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike. 

 

The court SUSTAINS Plaintiffs’
objections nos. 1-14. 

 

Agency

 

“Agency is the relationship which
results from the manifestation of consent by one person to another that the
other shall act on his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the
other so to act.” (Gordon v. ARC Manufacturing, Inc. (2019) 43 Cal. App.
5th 705, 718 (internal quotations omitted). “For an agency relationship to
exist, the asserted principal must have a sufficient right to control the
relevant aspect of the purported agent’s day-to-day operations.” (Barenborg
v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33 Cal. App. 5th 70, 85.) “[A]
principal may be liable for the wrongful conduct of its agent, even if that
conduct is criminal, in one of three ways: (1) if the “‘principal directly
authorizes ... [the tort or] crime to be committed’” (2) if the agent commits
the tort “in the scope of his employment and in performing service on behalf of
the principal” . . . “regardless of whether the wrong is authorized or ratified
by [the principal]”, and even if the wrong is criminal; or (3) if the principal
ratifies its agent’s conduct “after the fact by ... voluntar[ily] elect[ing] to
adopt the [agent’s] conduct ... as its own.” (Doe v. Roman Cath. Archbishop
of Los Angeles (2016) 247 Cal. App. 4th 953, 969.) 

 

Hallmark Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ TAC
pleads specific facts that are inconsistent with the conclusory allegation that
Hemmis and Short were acting as Hallmark Defendants’ agents in connection with
their alleged wrongdoing. Specifically, Hallmark Defendants contend the
allegations establish (1) Hemmis and Short were not acting in the course and
scope of any agency or employment relationship in connection with their alleged
misconduct, and (2) Hallmark Defendants did not authorize or ratify Hemmis and Short’s
alleged misconduct. As to the course and scope of employment, Hallmark
Defendants contend there is no causal nexus between Hemmis and Short’s alleged
trespass and Hemmis’s filming of “At Home With Our Family.” The alleged
trespass did not occur as a result of H&F Productions asking cast members
to film DIY projects from their homes during the pandemic, since the TAC itself
establishes that Hemmis and Short were already living there and already
trespassing at the time. As for ratification, Hallmark Defendants argue any
ratification would be barred by the litigation privilege and moreover, there
are no allegations Hallmark Defendants had current knowledge of Hemmis’ and
Short’s alleged misconduct. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue their
general allegations are all that is necessary for the purposes of demurrer.
(See Bank of Seoul v. Marcione (1988) 198 Cal. App. 3d 113; Meyer v.
Graphic Arts International (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 176.) Here, Plaintiffs
argue they have sufficiently alleged facts showing an agency relationship
between Hemmis and the Hallmark Defendants and Ms. Hemmis’ actions were within
the course and scope of employment. Specifically, Ms. Hemmis' act of unlawfully
occupying the property was certainly “broadly incidental” to Hallmark's
business, and should easily within the parameters of the broad scope of
employment of Ms. Hemmis to film online segments in her home. Moreover,
Plaintiffs argue Hallmark Defendants ignore the well-settled rules for pleading
ratification. It is not necessary for their liability that they ratified Ms.
Hemmis conduct. Rather, all that was necessary was that she acted within the
scope of their agency.  Plaintiffs also
contend Plaintiff's allegations about Ms. Hemmis conduct, and Hallmark’s
responses thereto, are assumed as true at this stage of the proceedings.
Lastly, as for Hallmark Defendants’ litigation privilege contention, Plaintiffs
argue they incorrectly use declarations on demurrer to support this contention
and utilizing statements made in litigation as evidence of ratification does
not violate the litigation privilege.

 

The court finds Plaintiffs have sufficiently
alleged agency. Taking Plaintiffs’ allegations as true, after the Hemmis/Short
Defendants executed the fraudulent lease, this allowed people working for
Hallmark to visit the property. Moreover, Hallmark Defendants profited from
this trespass by airing Hemmis’ show, “At Home With Our Family”, which was a
COVID-19 adjusted version of the long-running “Home & Family”. Plaintiffs
allege Hallmark Defendants ratified this conduct when discovering no later than
December 2022 of the fraudulent lease but continued to broadcast – and profit –
from displaying online content and other footage on their networks of the
Plaintiff’s home, without any permission or authorization to do so. 

 

Accordingly, the demurrer to the
complaint is OVERRULED.  

 

Trespass 

 

Hallmark Defendants argue to the extent
Plaintiffs also allege liability for trespass not based on the conduct of
Hemmis and Short but arising from “individuals acting on behalf of Hallmark”
who visited the home, those allegations fail as a matter of law. 

 

“The elements of a common law trespass
are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the
defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry on the property; (3) lack
of permission to enter the property, or acts in excess of the permission; (4)
actual harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct as a substantial factor in causing
the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. United Food and Commercial Workers Union
Local 8 (2010) 113 Cal.Rptr.3d 88, 93, reversed on other grounds by
55 Cal.4th 1083 (2012).)  

 

Hallmark Defendants argue Plaintiffs’
allegations remain deficient as Plaintiffs have not alleged any damage to their
ownership interest by Hallmark Defendant’s alleged trespass and Plaintiffs
still cannot allege that Hemmis was their agent. Hallmark Defendants contend
the individuals were invited on the property and Plaintiffs suffered no damage
resulting from their trespass. When an out-of-possession property owner alleges
trespass, Hallmark Defendants contend there is no trespass claim unless there
has been damage to his or her ownership interest. (See Smith v. Cap
Concrete, Inc. (1982) 133 Cal. App. 3d 769, 774.) 

 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants
entirely ignore the new trespass allegations. Plaintiffs allege Ms. Hemmis was
an agent of Hallmark, including a general agent of them, when she took
possession of the property. Thereafter, as plead in the complaint, Ms. Hemmis
began filming shows on the property. As such, when she invited the other
Hallmark employees, it was one agent of Hallmark inviting other agents of
Hallmark onto the property. Even if Plaintiffs needed to allege damage to their
ownership interest, Plaintiffs contend Hemmis continues to claim an ownership
interest in the property to this day, which has clouded the Plaintiff's title
and made the property unmarketable. Moreover, Hemmis' actions have been
encouraged and aided-and-abetted by Hallmark, who continues to display the
Plaintiff's home on their website for all the world to see and even state that
it is Ms. Hemmis' "home”. 

 

The court finds Plaintiffs have alleged
facts sufficient to constitute a claim for trespass against the Hallmark
Defendants. Plaintiffs’ contention rests on Ms. Hemmis being an agent for
Hallmark Defendants, which the court finds sufficiently alleged at this
point.  They have also alleged that
Hemmis’s conduct created a cloud on title, which exists to this day, which is a
form of damages.  As such the  

demurrer to the trespass claim is OVERRULED.


 

Motion to Strike

 

Hallmark Defendants move the court for
an order striking portions of the TAC as follows: (1) those portions of the TAC
that improperly assert claims for punitive damages against Hallmark Defendants;
(2) those portions of the TAC that improperly assert claims for trespass
against Hallmark Defendants under a theory of direct liability; and (3) those portions
of the TAC adding allegations of alter ego liability that exceed the scope of
the Court’s grant of leave to amend. 

 

The court overrules the motion to
strike.  The allegations of agency and
ratification against the Hallmark Defendants are sufficient to support a claim
for punitive damages; the theory of direct liability for trespass is adequately
alleged; and the addition of alter ego allegations is appropriate, under the
circumstances, since they can be added by amendment at any stage of the
proceedings, even post judgment.  