 Case Number:  23VECV03586    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  W JESSICA
ALVARADO, et al. v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.
 
Demurrer to
plaintiffs’ first amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        May 24, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03586
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Sunrise Ford 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs
Jessica Alvarado and Brian Mendes  
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Chen Fei Liu Decl.
¶4, Exh. C.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from the purchase of a 2021 Ford Explorer. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company and Sunrise Ford for Violation
of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
Section; Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment; and Negligent Repair. 
 
Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a
sensing defect, which Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company demurs to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the grounds
that Plaintiffs cannot state their fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement – concealment against Ford as a matter of law because the FAC still
fails to plead essential elements to state the claim and is barred by the
economic loss rule as Plaintiffs failed correct any of the pleading
deficiencies in their initial Complaint. 
 
As a
threshold matter, Defendant argues Plaintiffs failed to file the First Amended
Complaint within the time period ordered by the Court.  When the court does not specify the time to
file and serve an amended complaint after a demurrer, leave to amend within 10
days is deemed granted. (See CRC Rule 3.1320(g).) The court sustained the
demurrer on November 7, 2023 and Plaintiffs did not file their amended
complaint until March 4, 2024 – well after 10 days of the sustaining of the
demurrer. 
 
While the
court takes serios issue with Plaintiffs inability to timely file their amended
complaint, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a fraudulent concealment claim
for the purposes of a demurrer. Specifically, the complaint now alleges “During
Plaintiffs’ ownership of the Vehicle, Plaintiffs consistently experienced
symptoms of the Transmission Defect… Plaintiffs experienced delayed/harsh
shifting, and jerking, particularly when shifting between lower gears. Plaintiffs
would suddenly, randomly, and unexpectedly experience these symptoms while driving
the Subject Vehicle, causing dangerous conditions for Plaintiffs and others on
the road. Plaintiffs continue to experience symptoms of the Transmission Defect
to this day.” (FAC ¶24.) As Plaintiffs have alleged such defects in their
vehicle, the court finds the allegations of Ford’s exclusive knowledge are also
sufficient to establish Ford’s knowledge of delayed/harsh shifting and jerking.
As for Defendants’ economic loss rule contention, the question of whether
fraudulent concealment cases are barred by the economic loss rule is still open
and the question has yet to be addressed by the California Supreme Court. As
such, the court finds Plaintiff’s allegations are not barred by the economic
loss rule under current case law. If Dhital is reversed while this
action is pending, Ford Motor may revisit the issue. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 