  Case Number:  17STPB03682    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION OF RECEIVER FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL ACCOUNT AND RELATED
PROVISIONS
In re: Ruth
Williamson 2011 Trust dated August 11, 2011, Case No. 17STPB03682 (related to
Case Nos. 17STPB02381, YC071970 and YC071983)
Anne Farrell, et al.,
Petitioners, v. Thomas D. Williamson, et al., Respondents 
Hearing Date: February
28, 2024 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          By this
motion, Receiver seeks to close the extended litigation in the courts of this
state, as well as in Utah, requiring him to manage numerous entities owning
assets here and in Utah. He files this motion at the request of the
beneficiaries - though litigation continues between them - to lower costs where
the underlying assets have now been liquidated and facilitate potential
distribution of the remaining amounts he continues to hold.  
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY / STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
On July 26, 2018, R. Todd Neilson was appointed trustee of the
so-called 101 Trusts, as well as Receiver of various entities owned by those
Trusts (“Receiver”). The appointment was clarified by order filed October 29,
2018 -- that included for Receiver to conduct an audit of the underlying
businesses respondent Thomas Williamson (“Thomas”) had been managing and filing
a report. 
On July 7, 2019, Receiver filed an audit report. 
On August 13, 2020, by stipulation, the Court approved
Receiver making a distribution to beneficiaries. 
On November 5, 2020, the Court approved Receiver making a further
distribution to beneficiaries. 
On March 2, 2022, the Court approved Receiver making another
distribution to beneficiaries. 
On September 28, 2023, the Court filed its seven-page ruling
on motion of Respondents for approval of the audit report and on objections
thereto, overruling each of Respondents’ four objections, including relevant to
this motion Respondents’ contentions as to actions Receiver took in Utah, as
well as conclusions Receiver reached as to Thomas’ management of the businesses
following his audit. 
On November 17, 2023, all interested parties and Receiver
filed a stipulation for notice of termination of receivership, for submission
of a final report and for Receiver to remain involved in a limited capacity
pending final determination of the underlying and related disputes between the
parties. 
On November 30, 2023, Receiver filed his final account, providing
a detailed chronology of events and attaching relevant transactions, as well as
filing the required notice of termination of receivership. 
On December 8, 2023, Receiver filed a motion for approval of
his final account, termination of the receivership and discharge, reservation
of rights to request a reserve and indemnification. 
On December 20, 2023, Thomas filed a Response and Objections
to the motion. In summary, he argues as follows: 
          First, that there
has not been an evidentiary hearing concerning the audit report. Relatedly,
that the Court’s rulings on the motions for distributions were “without
prejudice.” In turn, he is not opposed to approval of the report if it does not
prejudice a hearing on the merits of his objections. If approval would prejudice
such hearing, he requests an evidentiary hearing on this motion.  
          Second, he disputes
Receiver’s conclusions that he did not “cooperate” with Receiver. He also contends
Receiver’s actions in Utah were unlawful and hence Receiver should not be
awarded fees he and his attorneys incurred in connection therewith. In
particular, he disagrees with Receiver’s argument that his actions in Utah were
due to “antagonism” on his part.  
          Third,
notwithstanding the foregoing, he is also requesting termination of the
receivership – consistent with his contention that one should never have been
started in the first place. 
          Finally, he
is opposed to setting of a reserve. 
          On December
27, 2023, Petitioners filed a Response to Respondents’ response and Objections
to the motion. They argue that the Court has already overruled the objections
Thomas again raises in the opposition, including by way of its order filed
September 28, 2023. As a result, they assert that Thomas is not entitled to an
evidentiary hearing concerning those objections or the earlier orders for
distribution. 
On December 27, 2023, Receiver filed a Reply. He reiterates Petitioners’
above-referenced response, as well as clarifies that he is not now seeking a
reserve; only reserving his right to request one, should the need arise,
consistent with the stipulation of the parties, including Thomas, filed
November 17, 2023. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          This Court’s
ruling filed September 28, 2023 explained at length why the Court could not
then either approve the audit report – as there was no basis or reason to do so
- nor address the Court’s earlier orders approving distributions of significant
sums by the Receiver. Further, the Court overruled Thomas’s objections to a
conclusion the Receiver reached concerning Thomas’ management of the
businesses, as well as his contentions about the Receiver’s actions in Utah.[1] Thomas
provides no grounds why the Court could or should change those rulings now. They
apply equally to Thomas’ objections in the context of this motion. 
          Moreover, it
appears to the Court that Thomas is seeking to have it both ways: On the one
hand, he agrees the receivership should now be terminated but on the other hand
he seeks to preserve his objections and any rights to an evidentiary hearing concerning
approval of the report – that might preclude the Court now terminating the
receivership.[2]
Other than repeating claims this Court has in certain instances more than once
rejected, he does not now set forth what precisely requires an evidentiary
hearing. The Court does not find Receiver’s comment concerning the level of cooperation
offered by Thomas, or whether he was antagonistic to the Receiver, to be
material to approval of the final report. These findings are collateral to the
principal findings in the audit as to Thomas’ management of the entities.
Hence, even assuming for sake of argument the Court were to agree with Thomas
in this regard (notwithstanding Thomas having brought an action against the
Receiver (which was terminated in favor of the Receiver)), it would not change
what the Receiver concluded as to Thomas’ management of the Entities or provide
any reason not to approve this final account. There is nothing else Thomas has now
stated requiring an evidentiary hearing even assuming he had a right to one on
this motion. Thomas cannot save for another day the nature of objections he was
under an obligation to submit as part of any opposition to the motion. 
          Given
Thomas’ objections that the costs of this receivership were unjustified and
excessive, the Court took special note of Receiver’s summary in Ex. 21 of his
fees, as well as the fees of its attorneys. 
While the totals are obviously high, that is not unexpected given the
time spent over a multi-year period and contested circumstances here, as set
forth in the final report. That work included the audit of seven years of
Thomas’ management, litigation brought by Thomas against the Receiver, as well
as complex administration and sale of multiple assets belonging to different
entities. Bearing in mind the cost of this type of business litigation, the
fees of similar professionals and the value of the assets involved, the Court
has no reason to believe these fees are not reasonable.[3]
Thomas does not provide any basis for the Court to conclude that the fees are
unwarranted or unreasonable, except generalized complaints inconsistent with
the documented history here.
          Finally,
Thomas’ objection concerning a reserve is inconsistent with his own earlier
agreement. Receiver’s proposed order is reasonable given the parties’ joint
interest in terminating this receivership, and the costs associated therewith,
notwithstanding there remains considerable litigation still pending between the
parties. 
          That said Thomas
still contends he has the right to an evidentiary hearing. 
“The right to an
evidentiary hearing, however, is not absolute. As in all civil actions, a party
is entitled to present evidence only if the evidence is “competent, relevant
and material” to a disputed issue. (Estate
of Horman (1968) 265 Cal.App.2d 796, 808–809;
see § 1000; Evid.
Code, §§ 210, 351,
352.)
In ruling on these matters, a probate court has flexibility to manage its
proceedings to further the Estate’s best interests and reduce unnecessary
expenses. (See Estate
of Ferber (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 244, 253.)
   
Under the principles set forth above, a trial court
may require, for example, an offer of proof before permitting oral testimony
and may order that the offer be specific in identifying the purpose of the
testimony, the name of the proposed witnesses, and the general content of the
answers to be elicited. (See In
re Grace P. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 605, 612;
see also In
re Mark C. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 433, 444.)
“An offer of proof should give the trial court an opportunity to change or
clarify its ruling and in the event of appeal would provide the reviewing court
with the means of determining error and assessing prejudice. [Citation.] To
accomplish these purposes an offer of proof must be specific. It must set forth
the actual evidence to be produced and not merely the facts or issues to
be addressed and argued.” (People
v. Schmies (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 38, 53,
italics added.) If the offer does not show that the proposed testimony would be
relevant and material, the court has the discretion to deny the request. (See Conservatorship
of McElroy (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 536, 553–555”

Estate of Chamberlin
(2018 WL 66955900 (unpublished opinion concerning the hearing on an approval of
an accounting)) See also Conservatorship of Farrant (2021) 67
Cal.App.5th 370, 378 (finding no abuse of discretion denying
evidentiary hearing where “[i]nstead of specifying the factual issues he
intended to litigate and the relevant evidence (testimony and exhibits he would
produce at the hearing, appellant’s counsel made vague representations.”)  
          This Court follows the foregoing
procedure to determine whether an evidentiary hearing is needed in this case. 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these
reasons, the Court orders that Thomas file his offer of proof, consistent with
the foregoing, by February 20, 2024, to determine the need for an evidentiary
hearing. Petitioners may file a reply by February 26, 2024. In this way, the
Court can determine whether to schedule an evidentiary hearing or if the Court will
instead adopt this tentative ruling on the hearing date. 
 
DATED:  February__,
2024                                        
____________________________________
                                                                                                       
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                       
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


