 Case Number:  23SMCV02067    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Rahbar
v. DW Investments, LLC, et al., Case No.: 23SMCV02067
Hearing
Date: February 7, 2024
Defendant
Wong’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Plaintiff
alleges injuries due to defendants DW Investments and Wong’s failure to provide
safe flooring. Defendant Wong demurs. 
Wong files a request for judicial notice of the
demurrer and deed to the property. The deed may be judicially noticed under Evid.
Code §452(c), as it is a recorded document. The parties met and conferred prior
to filing the demurrer per CCP §430.41(a).
In ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents. For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts alleged are assumed to be true. Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.
Wong argues the deed is not in his name, but in the
name of corporate defendant DW and argues the claim fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
The complaint states a sole cause of action for
negligence. To state a claim for negligence, plaintiff must allege duty of
care, breach and damages. McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671. The complaint
alleges (at Complaint, ¶ 9) “failing
to provide safe flooring in the subject location as to create a dangerous and
hazardous condition…”. It is unclear what aspect of the flooring is alleged to
be defective or dangerous, nor does plaintiff specify, even generally, what is
alleged to have occurred, whether slip and fall, trip and fall, fall through missing
flooring or otherwise.
Wong argues the Deed states DW, not he, owns the
premises. A defendant may be liable for premises liability even if there is no
ownership interest in the premises, so long as there is control. Further, the Deed
does not contain sufficient details to demonstrate the plot of land described
as “Lots 33 and 35 in Block 58 of the Artesian Tract…” (RJN, Exh. A) is the property
at issue. Though the Deed is judicially noticed, it cannot be determined
whether this is the deed to the property in question. It may be a question of
fact as to the owner, which is not proper on demurrer.
In opposition, plaintiff states “the flooring was
uneven and accumulated rainwater. Further the light fixture was broken for an
uncertain time…” (Opposition, p. 3:24-25). These facts are not alleged in the complaint,
which makes the complaint is insufficient to place Wong on notice of the
allegations against him. Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 549-550.
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.