  Case Number:  22SMCV00870    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Wolf v. Kohen et
al., Case No. 22SMCV00870 
Hearing Date
February 7, 2023 
Plaintiff Wolf’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Plaintiff Daniella
Wolf and her husband Yaakov Wolf operated apparel business Why U. Third-party
Eisenberg, a business associate, introduced the Wolfs to defendant Jerry Kohen,
whose company American Waste was engaged to provide funds to pay for orders of
product or material.
 
In 2005 the Wolfs
signed a promissory note for $500,000 in favor of Jerry and Orit Kohen, secured
by a deed of trust on the Wolfs’ home. Between 2005 and 2015, Yaakov Wolf made payments
toward satisfaction of the debt. In 2016, the Kohens assigned the note and deed
of trust to defendant Haroni.
 
Plaintiff Daniella
Wolf sues for declaratory relief and quiet title, arguing the note and deed of
trust are invalid, neither she nor Yaakov owes the Cohens or Haroni any money,
and no defendant has a security interest in her property. 
 
Plaintiff Wolf
moves for summary judgment, arguing undisputed evidence shows the Kohens never
lent the Wolfs or their business money, the Kohens waived their right to
recover because of unreasonable delay, and the Kohens will be unable to prove
damages. Additionally, Wolf argues there is no evidence linking the deed of
trust on the Wolf property to the line of credit allegedly created by the note.

 
A plaintiff
fulfills the initial burden on summary adjudication or judgment by proving each
element of the cause of action. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(1). The burden
then shifts to defendant to show a genuine issue of fact as to one or more
elements or an affirmative defense. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett (1986) 477
U.S 317, 323.
 
The parties agree
the Wolfs signed a $500,000 promissory note but disagree as to the nature of
the loan created. 
 
Plaintiff Wolf
argues the note contemplated a single lump-sum payment of $500,000, and the
Kohens never paid. Plaintiff’s separate statement 6, Lauritsen decl., exh. B at
pg. 52. She argues the Wolfs cannot be compelled to repay a loan that was never
made. 
 
Defendants argue
the note created a $500,000 line of credit the Wolfs could draw upon as needed.
Defendants claim Eisenberg used the of credit repeatedly on the Wolfs’ behalf, taking
money forwarded by American Waste, the Kohens’ business, to fund the
manufacture and import of Why U products. 
 
Wolf admits that a
month after the deed of trust was created, Kohen signed a purported “Credit
Line Agreement.” Plaintiff’s separate statement 7. Wolf states neither she nor
Yaakov ever signed the Credit Line Agreement and never drew on any line of
credit. Plaintiffs separate statement 9-13. Indeed, the Credit Line Agreement was
signed by the Kohens, but not by the Wolfs. 
 
Wolf argues
Eisenberg lacked authority to incur debts on behalf of the Wolfs or Why U, so
any moneys he received from the Kohens are his to repay, not the Wolfs’. Plaintiff’s
separate statement 14-15. In support, they cite Eisenberg’s deposition stating whenever
he requested money from American Waste to pay Why U’s bills, he did not seek
Yaakov Wolf’s permission or approval. Lauritsen decl., exh. F, pg. 74.
Additionally, Eisenberg did not remember whether the Wolfs or Why U ever
provided him with permission to borrow money on behalf of Why U. Id. pg. 75. This
suggests Wolf is correct, and Eisenberg lacked authority to borrow on behalf of
her, Yaakov or Why U. 
 
Wolf cites Jerry
Kohen’s deposition, where he states he does not remember whether the Wolfs ever
told him Eisenberg was authorized to borrow money on their behalf. Lauritsen
decl. ¶4, Exh. C at pg. 99. This indicates Eisenberg did not have apparent
authority to borrow from the line of credit on Wolf’s behalf. 
 
This is sufficient
to carry plaintiff’s initial summary judgment burden. The burden shifts to
defendants to provide admissible evidence showing a triable issue of material
fact as to whether the Kohens lent money to Wolf, either directly or through Eisenberg.

 
Defendants argue Yaakov
admitted Eisenberg had authority to draw upon the line of credit. Defendants’
response to plaintiffs’ separate statement 3-4. Defendants cite the deposition
where Yaakov states Eisenberg promised to buy large quantities of fabric on
behalf of Why U, Eisenberg was friends with Jerry Kohen, that if a massive
order came in “we could draw upon” funds provided by Kohen, and Yaakov did not
know or directly interact with Kohen. Abrams decl., exh. 1, pg. 62. 
 
The language is
ambiguous. Yaakov does not directly admit Eisenberg was authorized to borrow on
Why U’s behalf. Nonetheless, on summary judgment, evidence must be viewed in
the light most favorable to the non-moving party. LPP Mortgage v. Bizar (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776. The language, interpreted in the light most favorable
to the Kohens, implies that since Eisenberg was responsible for buying fabric
on behalf of Why U, and since Yaakov had no direct relationship with Kohen,
Eisenberg would be allowed to borrow from Kohen on behalf of Why U. This creates
a triable issue of fact as to whether Kohen lent money to the Wolfs. 
 
Defendants argue Yaakov
affirmed his debt to the Kohens verbally, in writing and by making partial
payments. They point to Yaakov’s deposition, where he acknowledged existence of
a line of credit secured against the Wolf property. Defendants’ Response 6,
Abrams decl. ¶3. Yaakov’s admission cuts against Daniella Wolf’s argument that
the note did not create a line of credit, but it does not establish that the
Wolfs ever used the line of credit. This is insufficient to create a triable
issue of fact.
 
Defendants cite a 2012
email to Jerry Kohen from Yaakov Wolf entitled “my debt,” stating “[w]e did
make a written agreement of 7 years last time we met which I did plan to honor
and still do . . . I will pay you through my work.” Defendants’ Response 6,
Abrams decl., exh. 18. Both parties acknowledge Wolf made payments to Kohen
and/or Kohen’s company between 2005 and 2015. The import of this email and
payments is ambiguous. Wolf argues they constitute an attempt to stave off foreclosure
and should not be interpreted as ratification of the debt. 
 
On summary
judgment, ambiguous evidence must be interpreted in favor of the non-moving
party. A reasonable finder of fact could interpret the email and Yaakov’s  partial payments as acknowledgment of the
debt’s validity. Defendants create a triable issue of fact as to ratification. 
 
Wolf argues “even
if the Wolfs or Why U incurred a debt to American Waste based upon Eisenberg’s
draws, there is nothing tying that debt to the deed of trust.” Motion at pg.
11. Wolf argues the “Credit Line Agreement” is unauthenticated, so
inadmissible. Additionally, she argues it constitutes a “promise to answer for
the debt, default, or miscarriage of another,” so the statute of frauds requires
it to be signed by the parties to be bound. 
 
As Yaakov
testified he recalled “an agreement to have a credit line of $500,000,” and the
Credit Line Agreement “correlates to the $500,000 line of credit that I
understand we had with Jerry Kohen for the purchase of goods[.]” Defendants’
separate Statement 1-2. Here, Yaakov seems to admit the note created a line of
credit for $500,000, not an obligation to pay a single lump sum. This is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to the Credit Line Agreement’s
validity.
 
As to the statute
of frauds, it is unsigned and therefore invalid. However, Yaakov’s deposition
create a triable issue of fact as to whether the initial note created a
$500,000 line of credit, later memorialized by the Credit Line Agreement.
Neither party disputes the Wolfs signed the note and are liable for debts
incurred thereunder. 
 
Wolf argues defendants
“slept on their rights,” and any rights defendants may have had expired, since no
payments have been made since 2015, and defendants have not initiated
foreclosure proceedings. Wolf’s motion acknowledges laches is an affirmative
defense that can only be asserted by a defendant, so it is improper for
plaintiff to rely on it here.
 
Finally, Wolf
argues defendants will be unable to prove damages. However, Kohen provided
evidence to establish a triable issue as to whether the Wolfs drew on the line
of credit through Eisenberg and failed to repay the amount borrowed. There is a
triable issue of fact as to whether defendants suffered damages in the form of
unpaid monies advanced under the note. 
 
DENIED. 