 Case Number:  23GDCV02621    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV02621
Hearing Date: 09/05/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: GAGIK KHATCHATURYAN v. GARNIK TSATURYAN, et
al.
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER with MOTION TO STRIKE]
DEMURRER


RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
Clearcover Insurance Company, hereby enters a general demurrer to the entire
complaint and each cause contained therein of Gagik Khachaturyan and
respectfully requests the court grant the demurred, dismiss the complaint as
against Clearcover Insurance Company, LLC and issue a ruling that there is no
leave to amend.”

(Demurrer, p. 1.)
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, Clearcover Insurance Company, LLC
(Clearcover or Defendant)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Gagik Khachaturyan
Moving Papers: Demurrer;
Proof of Service
Opposition Papers: Opposition;
Soghbatyan Declaration; Opposition to Defendant’s counsel’s declaration and
motion for automatic extension of time in which to file a responsive pleading
Reply Papers: No Reply
papers – if a Reply is submitted, it will be late
ANALYSIS
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)):
Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): No
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
CCP § 1005(b)
“ Unless
otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The
moving and supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to
be filed with the court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required
16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar
days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of
California, 10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the place of
address is outside the State of California but within the United States, 12
calendar days if the place of address is the Secretary of State’s address
confidentiality program (Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section 6205) of Division
7 of Title 1 of the Government Code), and 20 calendar days if either the place
of mailing or the place of address is outside the United States, and if the
notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery
providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before
the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days.” (CCP § 1005(b).)
The
instant hearing is set for Thursday, September 5, 2024. Sixteen court days
before the hearing would be Tuesday, August 13th, 2024. 
Defendant’s
demurrer is untimely for two reasons. 
First,
as to service, five calendar days must be added since service was via mail.
Defendant’s proof of service indicates service via mail on August 9, 2024. However,
because five calendar days had to have been added for serving this demurrer via
mail, this demurrer should have been served via mail on August 8, 2024.
Therefore, the service of this motion is a day late.
Second,
CCP § 1005(b) also mentions how the moving and supporting papers shall be
“served and filed” at least 16 court days before the hearing. Further, CCP §
1005(b) mentions how five calendar days must be added for service via mail
within the State of California. Therefore, not only was this demurrer supposed
to be served by August 8, 2024, it should have also been filed by
August 8, 2024. The moving papers (demurrer and proof of service) were not filed
until 8/13/2024.
Automatic Extension of Time in Which to File a Responsive Pleading
“ The parties shall
meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due.
If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date
the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an
automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading,
by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due,
a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to
meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not
meet and confer. The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the
responsive pleading was previously due, and the demurring party shall not be
subject to default during the period of the extension. Any further extensions
shall be obtained by court order upon a showing of good cause.” (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd.
(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Plaintiff
objects to the automatic extension requested by Defendant to file a responsive
pleading, and Plaintiff argues that a proper meet and confer did not occur.
Plaintiff’s arguments on both these issues are difficult to understand.
Therefore, Plaintiff can address these issues at the hearing if it wishes.
Background
On 12/12/2023,
Plaintiff, Gagik Khachaturyan, filed the instant action against Defendants,
Garnik Tsaturyan; Argam Khachatryan; Syuzanna Mnatsakanyan; Artur Mnatsakanyan;
and DOES 1 to 30. The Complaint alleges two causes of action – (1) Motor
Vehicle, and (2) General Negligence – from an incident that allegedly took
place on December 16, 2020.
On
2/26/2024, Defendants Garnik Tsaturyan and Argam Khachatryan filed an answer.
On
6/11/2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint to name Defendant Doe
1 as Clearcover Insurance Agency, LLC. This amendment was allegedly served on
July 10, 2024.
On
6/12/2024, Defendants Syuzanna Mnatsakanyan and Artur Mnatsakanyan were
dismissed.
Defendant’s Demurrer
Defendant, Clearcover,
argues that the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action, the statute of limitations has run, and that it is a misjoinder to
attempt to bring claims against the insurer of a claimed tortfeasor in the same
suit as the third party claim against the third-party defendant.
Many
of Defendant’s arguments are incomprehensible and difficult  to understand. Many times, Defendant will
make arguments without providing legal authority to support its arguments.
The
most comprehensible argument by Defendant pertains to the statute of
limitations. However, Defendant’s argument on the statute of limitations is
unavailing in light of the Plaintiff’s opposition explaining the relation back
doctrine.
CCP § 472
Under CCP § 472:
“(a) A party may amend its pleading once
without leave of the court at any time before the answer or demurrer is filed,
or after a demurrer is filed but before the demurrer is heard if the amended
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer is filed and served no later than the
date for filing an opposition to the demurrer. 
A party may amend the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer after the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer, upon stipulation by the parties.…”
 
(CCP § 472(a).)
Here, only
one complaint has been filed in this action; no amended complaint has been
filed.
Plaintiff
states that on August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed and electronically served the
FAC by right under CCP § 472, since Clearcover had not yet answered and had
instead only demurred and moved to strike. Plaintiff states that the FAC was
rejected by the Court’s clerk in light of the answer on file by Defendants
Garnik and Argam. Plaintiff states that the clerk dismissed Plaintiff’s phone
call requests to reconsider the rejection in light of CCP § 472 and advised to
instead file oppositions to demurrer and motion to strike and seek the court’s
order to amend the complaint.
The Court
notes that if the FAC had been filed and electronically served on August 20,
2024, it appears that this would be timely because it would be after the
demurrer was filed and not later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer.
Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed Clearcover’s counsel informing of the rejected FAC and seeking
a stipulation to amend the complaint to avoid the pending motions, but the
email was ignored.
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant’s motion is untimely under
CCP § 1005(b).
The Court
will hear argument.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO STRIKE
The Motion to strike appears to
assert the same arguments that Defendant asserted in the demurrer. The Court
will hear argument.