 Case Number:  22STCV09063    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Sanchez v. Dingwall
22STCV09063
Defendant’s Motion for Trial Preference
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
This action arises out of an accident that
allegedly occurred on October 7, 2019, while Plaintiff Rodolfo Sanchez
(“Plaintiff”) was attempting to trim trees located on the property owned by
David and Valerie Dingwall. Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action on
March 14, 2022, asserting causes of action David Dingwall, Valerie Dingwall, Echo,
Inc., and Doe defendants.  Echo, Inc.
subsequently settled with Plaintiff and was dismissed.
On October 21,
2022, Valerie Dingwall (“Defendant”) filed an answer.
 
On November 6,
2024, Defendant filed this motion for a trial preference. The motion was
initially set for hearing on November 21. 
Plaintiff filed a late opposition on November 19, and Defendant filed a
reply the same day.  The Court continued
the hearing to December 5. 
 
There have been a
number of trial dates in this matter. 
When this motion was filed, trial was set for November 14, 2024.  On November 13, the trial date was continued
to December 2.  On December 2, the trial
date was continued to February 27, 2025. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A party who is
over 70 years old may petition the court for a preference, which the court
shall grant if it makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under this
subdivision may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.  (Id., § 36.5.) Moreover, the court in its discretion
may grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the
court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).)   
 
“Upon the
granting of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for
trial not more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance
beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion for preference except for
physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good
cause stated in the record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any
continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance
for physical disability may be granted to any party.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Discussion
Defendant seeks an order for trial
preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a) based on Defendant’s age
and health. Plaintiff is 88 years old. (Huey Decl., ¶ 3; see also Exh. A.)
Plaintiff is under care for difficulty with vision in both her eyes, and family
reports a cognitive decline. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) Counsel attests that this
decline in Defendant’s cognitive aptitude is quickly limiting her ability to
participate in litigation. (Id., ¶7.) Counsel has also received
information from Defendant’s treating physicians regarding Defendant’s
cognitive decline. (Id., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff opposes on two grounds: that the
motion is improper as brought before a close trial date (since continued), and
that Defendant fails to provide sufficient medical documentation. 
The Court finds that Defendant has
satisfied all substantive and procedural requirements for a trial preference
under Code of Civil Procedure section 36. 
Defendant has submitted sufficient evidence to show that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.
Accordingly, the motion is granted. 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for
preferential trial setting. 
 
Trial is currently set for February 27,
2025, within 120 days of this order.  The
Court does not make any modification of the trial date.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.
 