  Case Number:  23STCP03550    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  85  James Samatas, et al. v. City of Los Angeles, et al., 23STCP03550   Petitioner Steven Lintz (“Lintz”) seeks leave to amend to add previously dismissed James Samatas (“Samatas”) as Petitioner and to dismiss Developer as a Real Party-in-Interest.  The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision.   A. Statement of the Case 1. The Petition On September 25, 2023, then Petitioners Samatas and Lintz filed the verified Petition against Respondents City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS”), and the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners (“BBSC”) (collectively, “City”).  The Petition names Tanager View LLC (“Tanager” or “Developer”) and Berserker LLC (“Beserker”) as Real Parties-in-Interest and alleges claims for mandamus and declaratory relief.  The Petition alleges in pertinent part as follows. Petitioner Lintz is the current owner of 1424 N. Tanager Way (“1424 Tanager”) which neighbors the Property.  Pet., ¶5.  Lintz acquired 1424 Tanager from Petitioner Samatas, who initiated a series of appeals against the Property based on building height violations, as well as two prior lawsuits filed August 16, 2016 and March 29, 2018, respectively.  Pet., ¶¶ 5, 16.  Lintz has provided Samatas with a Special/Limited Power of Attorney in connection with the claims that are the subject of this action.  Pet., ¶5.  The parties’ dispute concerns an abuse of discretion by Respondent LADBS in allowing the¿construction of an over-height 14,000 square-foot residence (“Project”) located at 1410 N.  Tanager Way in the Hollywood Hills (“Property”) in contravention of the Project’s original building permits.  Pet., ¶1.  A supplemental permit and a certificate of occupancy were improperly issued.  Id.  The property is subject to Los Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) section 12.26.K.  Pet., ¶5.  Respondent BBSC violated the applicable 30-foot height limit despite Petitioners’ evidence that Real Party Tanager illegally manipulated the Property’s topographical lines to misrepresent the Project’s height so that an illegal structure was built.   Pet., ¶¶ 1, 8.  Petitioners challenge LADBS’ actions allowing the Project to be constructed in violation of applicable height limits and the Project’s original building permits, including LADBS’ initial denial of Petitioners’ appeal and the BBSC’s subsequent denial of appeal and request for reconsideration.  Pet., ¶4.  a. May 2018 Building Permits In connection with the replacement of the Property’s existing residence of less than 3,000 square feet, LADBS issued permits under the 2011 Hillside Ordinance (“Hillside Ordinance”) for the grading and construction of an approximately 13,471-square-foot residence.  Pet., ¶13.  The Hillside Ordinance, codified at LAMC section 12.21.C.10(d)(2), allows a project to exceed the maximum envelope height only with Zoning Administrator (“ZA”) approval. Pet., ¶34.  At the time, the Project’s building permits showed a new 30-foot structure that would be built in compliance with the applicable height limit.  Pet., ¶1.    b. May 2018 Appeal to LADBS In May 2018, when it became apparent that the Project’s construction violated the 30-foot height noted on the plans, Petitioner Samatas appealed to LADBS.  Pet., ¶15.  LADBS agreed with his appeal that the Project was over-height and accordingly refunded Petitioner’s appeal fee.  Id.  LADBS did not require the over-height construction to be demolished.  Id.   c. Supplemental Permit In October 2018, after Developer exerted its influence with the City, Petitioner learned that LADBS had issued a supplemental permit for a¿new, fictional height limit of 36 feet which violates the zoning code and allowed the as-built structure that exists today.  Pet., ¶15. Given that the original plans used the 30-foot height limit permitted by the zoning code, Petitioner Samatas filed appeals from the building permits pursuant to LAMC section 12.26.K.  Pet., ¶15.  LADBS denied the appeals and forced an appeal of that determination to the ZA.  Id.  Despite the fact that the structure already exceeded 30 feet, Planning stated it was too early to determine whether the residence would violate the LAMC’s height limit upon completion.  Id.  LADBS advised that it would measure the height of the Project after the building was completely constructed but before a certificate of occupancy was issued.  The ZA did not take action on the appeal for years and ultimately terminated the appeal without prejudice on June 3, 2022 with an invitation to file a new appeal at a subsequent time.  Id.  This decision resulted in approximately a three-year delay.  Id.   d. Post-Completion Appeal of Building Permits After the Project was completed, a licensed surveyor, Neil Hansen ((“Hansen”) of N.C. Hansen, Inc., was retained and surveyed the as-built height of the Project and issued a report dated June 30, 2022 (“Hansen Report”).  Pet., ¶17, Ex. B.  The Hansen Report concluded that the Project significantly exceeds the 30-foot maximum envelope height permitted by the City’s Hillside¿Ordinance.  Pet., ¶18. On August 1, 2022, Petitioner Samatas filed an appeal from the Property’s building permits pursuant to LAMC section 12.26.K on the grounds that LADBS abused its discretion in allowing the construction of a single-family dwelling that exceeded the maximum building envelope height required for buildings in the Hillside Area in contravention of LAMC section 12.21.C.10(d)(1) of the Hillside Ordinance.  Pet., ¶19, Exs. A, C.  On December 5, 2022, LADBS summarily denied the building permit appeal. Pet., ¶22, Ex. F.   LADBS informed Petitioner Samatas that the appeal would be forwarded to the BBSC for a determination instead of forwarding the appeal to a ZA and the Planning Commission as required under LAMC section 12.26.K.  Pet., ¶¶ 23, 26.  By doing so, LADBS did not have to prepare a written report with findings as required by the LAMC.  Id.   The appeal was set on BBSC’s August 22, 2023 agenda.  Pet. ¶24.   On August 21, 2023, Petitioners’ counsel submitted a letter to the BBSC which outlined why it lacked jurisdiction and that the appeal should be heard by the Director of the Department of Planning (“Planning”).  Pet., ¶25, Ex. G.  Despite not having the authority to do so pursuant to LAMC section 98.0403.1(b)(2), the BBSC heard Petitioners appeal.  Pet. ¶ 26.  On August 24, 2023, the BBSC issued its Final Action letter which denied Petitioners’ appeal, affirming LADBS’ prior denial of the building permit appeal.  Pet. ¶27, Ex. H.  The denial was substantively based on testimony by LADBS employee Victor Cuevas (“Cuevas”) that he visited the Property and performed a measurement by “dropping a tape measure.”  Id.  Cuevas’ tape measure effort would not accurately measure height because there is a large balcony below the roof and extending east for a significant distance.  Id.  Measurement of height under the Hillside Ordinance also is based off natural grade, which Cuevas would not have been able to identify by dropping a tape measure.  It further is based on a point five feet from the building.  Id.  Neither Petitioners’ counsel nor Hansen were permitted to respond to Cuevas’ testimony.  Id.    e. Request for Reconsideration On August 25, 2023, Petitioners’ counsel filed a Request for Reconsideration from the BBSC’s Final Action letter pursuant to LAMC section 98.0312.  Pet. ¶ Ex. I.  On September 19, 2023, the hearing on the request for reconsideration took place.  None of the Commissioners addressed any of the points in Petitioners’ counsel’s August 25, 2023 letter regarding the impossibility of measuring techniques.  Pet. ¶29.  On September 21, 2023, the BBSC issued a Final Action letter denying Petitioners’ Request for Reconsideration. Pet. ¶29, Ex. J.  Petitioners seek (1) a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1085, or in the alternative, CCP section 1094.5 (a) directing LADBS to set aside the building permits, (b) directing the BBSC to set aside its Final Action letter, and (c) ordering that all construction exceeding maximum envelope height be demolished.  Petitioners also seek (a) temporary and preliminary injunctive relief prohibiting the issuance of additional building permits for the Project that violate the maximum envelope height, (b) a declaration that the Project is over-height and that the BBSC did not properly hear the appeal of the building permits because they should have been heard by the ZA and then the Planning Commission.  Petitioners further seek attorney’s fees and costs.    2. Course of Proceedings On December 11, 2023, the court partially granted Petitioners ex parte application to authorize service of process on Beserker through the Secretary of State and/or by publication. On December 12, 2023, the court found the instant case related to cases BS164400, BS173012, and 23STCP03550 within the meaning of California Rules of Court Rule 3.300(a).  For good cause shown, said cases were assigned to Department 85 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse and all hearings in Department 82 were vacated.  On April 16, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of the City and Developer as to Petitioner Samatas and overruled it as to Lintz.  The court found that Samatas lacked standing because title records show that he sold 1424 Tanager in May 2021 and now resides in Illinois.  Therefore, “Samatas cannot establish that anything the City did after he sold 1424 Tanager prejudicially affected his substantial rights, or that he will benefit from a mandamus ruling.”  The court authorized Samatas to file a motion to establish his standing.  B. Applicable Law California courts employ a liberal approach to amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  Nestle v. Santa Monica, (‘Nestle”) (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court, (“Morgan”) (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.  Pursuant to this liberal policy, requests for leave to amend will normally be granted unless (a) the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the court, and (b) the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  Hirsa v. Superior Court, (“Hirsa”) (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Absent a showing of prejudice, a delay in seeking an amendment alone does not justify denial of leave to amend.  Higgins v. Del Faro, (“Higgins”) (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-65.  Moreover, where the plaintiff is the party seeking leave to amend, mere proximity to the trial date, absent any prejudice, does not constitute ground for denial if the plaintiff is amenable to a continuance of the trial date.  Mesler v. Bragg Mgt. Co., (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 297. The reason for a liberal policy is that if a plaintiff has a good cause of action, which by accident or mistake he has failed to set out in his complaint, the court should permit him to amend.  Higgins, supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at 564-65.  Hence, where an amendment provides merely the addition of matters essential to make the original cause of action complete, effecting no change in the nature of the case and thus causing no surprise or prejudice to the adverse party, the amendment should be allowed by the court.  Id., at 565. A motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading; (2) be serially numbered to differentiate the amendment from previous amendments; and (3) state the page, line number, and wording of any proposed interlineation or deletion of allegations or material.  CRC 3.1324(a).  The motion shall be accompanied by a separate declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to it were discovered, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  CRC 3.1324(b). In ruling on a motion for leave to amend, a trial court will not normally consider the viability of the proposed amendments.  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court, (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.  The court, however, has discretion to deny an amendment that fails to state a cause of action or defense.  Foxborough v. Van Atta, (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 230.  The court also has discretion to deny “sham” amendments -- i.e., those that omit or contradict harmful facts alleged in the original pleading, unless sufficient excuse exists.  Green v. Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Co., (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 692; Berman v. Bromberg, (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945-946 (sham amendment rule does not apply to change of legal theories).  C. Statement of Facts1 While the construction was ongoing at the Property and certain building permit appeals initiated by Samatas were pending, he entered into a California Residential Purchase Agreement and Escrow Instructions (“PSA”) with Petitioner Steven Lintz (“Lintz”) for 1424 Tanager Way on or about April 2, 2021.  Samatas Decl., ¶2, Ex. F.  Paragraph 6, entitled “Other Terms,” referenced Paragraph 1 of an attached Addendum which provides:   “[Samatas] shall retain the rights at all times, to continue legally pursuing it’s [sic] case against the City of Los Angeles regarding building and permit violations at 1410 Tanager Way and [Lintz], once holding title, shall continue to effectuate these rights. The award and any settlement recovered, shall be construed as additional consideration of the Real Estate Purchase Price, and shall remain [Samatas’] exclusively and not subject to any additional commission fees. [Samatas] shall pay for all cost[s] associated with pursuit of the referenced legal cases at no expense to [Lintz]. (Emphasis added.) Samatas Decl., ¶2, Ex. F (emphasis added).  Lintz also provided Samatas a Special/Limited Power of Attorney (“Power of Attorney”) dated August 11, 2023.  Samatas Decl., ¶3, Ex. G.  The Power of Attorney appoints Samatas as Lintz’s attorney-in-fact for the Claim and Claim Proceedings, or the settlement thereof.  Ex. G, p. 2.  A “Claim” is defined as the administrative appeals for the construction at the Property and “Claim Proceedings” is defined as any subsequent court proceedings concerning the Claim.  Ex. G, p. 1. Because Samatas sold 1424 Tanager while his building permit appeal was pending and the Project persisted, he did not believe he received top dollar or market value in connection the sale of 1424 Tanager Way.  He also had invested time and money in the administrative appeal.  The PSA and Power of Attorney gave him a pathway to be made whole.  Samatas Decl., ¶4.  D. Analysis Petitioner Lintz seeks leave to file an FAP that renames Samatas as a Petitioner and dismisses Developer as a Real Party.   California courts employ a liberal approach to amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  Nestle, supra, 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan, supra, 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.  Pursuant to this liberal policy, requests for leave to amend will normally be granted unless (a) the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the court; and (b) the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  Hirsa, supra, 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Absent a showing of prejudice, a delay in seeking an amendment alone does not justify denial of leave to amend.  Higgins, supra, 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-65.    1. Procedural Issues The City and Developer assert that the  motion is procedurally defective because it fails to comply with CRC 3.1324(b).  Opp. at 11.  Any motion for leave to amend a pleading must include a declaration that specifies (1) the effect of the amendment, (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper, (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and (4) why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  CRC 3.1324(b).  Lintz did not include a proposed amendment/pleading and the supporting declaration fails to explain the effect of the amendment or why it is proper.  Opp. at 10. Lintz replies that line-item edits to the Petition are unnecessary because the motion only seeks to return Samatas as a Petitioner and leave to dismiss Developer as a Real Party.  the allegations in the Petition will remain exactly the same.  The declarations submitted with the motion set forth the facts why Samatas has standing.  Reply at 9-10.   The City and Developer also argue that the motion is a disguised motion to reconsider that does not comply with CCP section 1008.  Opp. at 10-11. Lintz correctly replies that, in ruling on the demurrer, the court found that Samatas lacked standing. During the hearing, Samatas’ counsel made an offer of proof based on the PSA and Power of Attorney that were not before the court.  The court permitted Samatas to file a motion for leave to amend the Petition to get back into the case.  Reply at 3-4. The court will not deny the motion on either procedural ground.  2. Merits Standing is a threshold issue necessary to maintain a cause of action, and the burden to allege and establish standing lies with the plaintiff.¿ Mendoza v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,¿ (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 802, 810.  As a general rule, a party must be “beneficially interested” to seek a writ of mandate.  Friends of Oceano Dunes, Inc. v. San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control Dist.,¿(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 957, 962 (citing CCP §1086).  Likewise, to seek declaratory relief, a party must be an “interested person.”  CCP §1060.  An “interested person” means the same thing as a “beneficially interested” person in mandamus cases.  Asimow, et al., Administrative Law (2018), Ch. 14, §14:6.  The term “beneficially interested” has been generally interpreted to mean that one may obtain the writ only if the person has some special interest to be served or some particular right to be preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common with the public at large.  SJJC Aviation Services, LLC v. City of San Jose, (“SJJC”)¿(2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1043, 1053.  The beneficial interest must be direct and substantial.  Ibid.  A petition has no beneficial interest if she will gain no direct benefit from the writ’s issuance and suffer no direct detriment if it is denied.  Ibid. Lintz argues that Samatas has standing because he expressly bargained for a stake in this litigation (and any subsequent litigation relating to the City’s issuance of permits for the Project).  Standing to pursue administrative mandamus is not limited to property owners.  Mola Development Corp. v. City of Seal Beach, (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 405, 415 (non-owners may have standing by virtue of participation in entitlement process and substantial stake in the project).  Samatas is beneficially interested because the PSA and Power of Attorney -- which must be read together because the PSA was entered into first -- expressly contemplate that Samatas could pursue claims against the City.  Although the Power of Attorney allows Samatas to prosecute claims in Lintz’s name (as he now owns 1424 Tanager), the prosecution is for Samatas’ own benefit.  Any award will be construed as additional consideration for Lintz’s purchase of the property and shall be Samatas’ exclusively.  Ex. F, Addendum.  Mot. at 10-11. Lintz adds that Samatas can obtain a monetary settlement in this mandamus action or a monetary recovery in a future action.  The PSA provides a mechanism by which Samatas can add to the “Real Estate Purchase Price” and the Power of Attorney is the vehicle by which he may do so.  Stated differently, while the claim may belong to Lintz by virtue of the property sale, the contract between Lintz and Samatas gives all monetary benefits of the claim (in this proceeding and any subsequent proceeding) to Samatas.  Mot. at 10-12.    Lintz’s argument is that Samatas has standing for two reasons: (1) the PSA gives Samatas an interest in any settlement of this mandamus case and in any future claims for compensation, including a nuisance action that may be brought subsequent to this action and (2) the Power of Attorney allows Samatas a pathway to be made whole because the PSA gives all monetary benefits of any claim to Samatas.     Neither supports Samatas’ standing for this mandamus action because he “will gain no direct benefit from [the writ’s] issuance and suffer no direct detriment if it is denied.” SJJC, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at 1053.  As the City and Real Party argue (Opp. at 14-15), the beneficial interest must be in the mandamus writ itself, not some potential economic benefit consequential to the writ.  The potential for settlement is not a direct benefit of the mandamus action and also purely speculative.  Likewise, any potential future award in a nuisance case is not a direct benefit of mandamus.   Lintz distinguishes two of cases cited by the City and Developer (Opp. at 12-14) as involving a competitive interest that was insufficient to confer standing.   See San Luis Rey Racing, Inc. v. California Horse Racing Bd., (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 67, 75 (provider of off-site stabling for racehorses during race meetings lacked mandamus standing to overturn orders of Horse Racing Board regarding the management of a fund because petitioner’s “stated interest is competitive in nature” and there was no evidence that the Legislature intended to address the competitive market for offsite stabling); Waste Management of Alameda County, Inc. v. County of Alameda, (“Waste Management”) (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1223, 1335 (petitioner did not have CEQA standing because it did not have a direct interest in requiring competitor to undergo a CEQA review).2  Reply at 5. Lintz also argues that Sacramento County Fire Protection Dist. v. Sacramento County Assessment Appeals Bd., (“Sacramento County”) (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 327, 332-33 (petitioner fire district had to refund previously collected tax dollars based on a reassessment of a large property’s value and could not challenge the reassessment because it did not have any special interest or particular right to be protected over that of the public) is factually distinguishable but does not explain why its legal analysis does not apply.  Reply at 5-6.   Finally, Lintz distinguishes County of San Luis Obispo v. Superior Court, (“County of San Luis Obispo”) (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 288, 293-95 (former property owner with no remaining interest in the property did not have standing to compel a county planning department to issue certificates of compliance and new owner settled the dispute anyway).   Lintz argues that Samatas does not seek to reacquire his former property, the dispute has not been extinguished by settlement, and unlike the former property owner, Samatas has a contract with Lintz to obtain any recovery stemming from litigation.  Reply at 6. Whatever the merits of these distinctions, the fact remains that the case law -- particularly Sacramento County and County of San Luis Obispo -- shows that the beneficial interest must be direct and not hypothetical.  Samatas has no direct beneficial interest in the outcome of this mandamus case. Samatas’ Power of Attorney does give him the right to pursue Lintz’s claim, but only in Lintz’s name.  In other words, Lintz is a proper Petitioner by and through Samatas.  But the Power of Attorney does not provide Samatas standing to sue in his own name. The parties debate the validity of the Power of Attorney.  The City and Real Party argue that under Probate Code section 4121(c), a power of attorney must be “either (1) acknowledged before a notary public or (2) signed by at least two witnesses who satisfy the requirements of Probate Code section 4122.  Kaneko v. Yager, (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 970, 979. The Power of Attorney attached to the motion is not notarized and lacks witness signatures.  Opp. at 17.   Lintz replies that “the Probate Code provisions concerning powers of attorney only apply to durable powers of attorney, statutory powers of attorney under the Uniform Statutory Form Power of Attorney Act (Prob. Code, § 4400 et seq.), and powers of attorney that specifically incorporate the Probate Code provisions. (Prob. Code, § 4050, subd. (a).).” Jozefowicz v. Allstate Ins. Co., (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 829, 835-36.  These Probate Code provisions do not apply to a power of attorney where the authority of the attorney-in-fact is coupled with an interest.  Prob. Code §4050(b)(1).   Id. at 836.  That is the case for Samatas’ Power of Attorney which couples his attorney-in-fact power with his interest in recovering under it.  Reply at 8-9. The parties also debate whether the Power of Attorney creates a disqualifying conflict of interest for Samatas.  Opp. at 16; Reply at 9-10.   The court need not resolve these issues.  It is sufficient for purposes of this motion to note that Lintz has standing, and that he may pursue his claim either directly or through Samatas as his attorney-in-fact, but the Power of Attorney does not confer standing on Samatas to make his own claim.  3. Estoppel Lintz relies on equitable and promissory estoppel to assert that the City cannot claim that Samatas lacks standing.  Lintz argues that the City seeks to take advantage of its own wrong because it unjustifiably tried to run out the clock on Samatas by delaying his administrative appeal for years even though construction had already topped off and it was illogical to expect that the house was going to magically become lower in height as the work on interior finishes proceeded.  Samatas could have filed his suit long before he sold 1424 Tanager to Lintz had the City not rendered the appeal process a charade designed to deprive Samatas of a fair process as alleged in the Petition.  But, of course, any suit while the administrative appeal remained open would have been challenged by the City for failure to exhaust administrative remedies. The City knew exactly what it was doing and should not be able to benefit from this gamesmanship.  Mot. at 13. Equitable estoppel applies in circumstances where a party has induced another into forbearing to act.  Lantzy v. Centex Homes, (2003) 31 Cal.App.4th 363, 383.  The elements of estoppel are: (1) the party to be estopped must be appraised of the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon; (3) the other party must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.  Driscoll v. City of Los Angeles, (1967) 67 Cal.2d 297, 305.  The doctrine applies to a public entity in the same manner as a private party when the elements of equitable estoppel have been shown, and when the injustice which would result from a failure to estop the agency is sufficient to justify any adverse effect upon public interest or policy which would result.  City of Long Beach v. Mansell, (1970) 3 Cal.3d 462, 496-97. The elements of promissory estoppel are “(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his or her reliance.” Aceves v. U.S. Bank N.A., (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225. Lintz does not attempt to meet the elements of either equitable or promissory estoppel.  The City did nothing to induce Samatas from forbearing to act.  To the contrary, he professes to have been eager to file suit.  Nor did the City make any promise to Samatas on which he could reasonably rely.  Estoppel has no application to justify adding Samatas as a Petitioner.  4. Developer as a Real Party Lintz argues that the Developer sold the Property to Berserker and therefore should be dismissed as a Real Party.  On demurrer, Developer argued that Samatas lacks standing by virtue of selling 1424 Tanager to Lintz.  It is the Developer that lacks any interest in this action and should be dismissed.  After constructing the Project, on or about May 30, 2023, Developer sold the Property to Berserker -- a Real Party that was served but has yet to appear -- for a purchase price of $25,000,000.  Mehta Decl., Ex. E.  Mot. at 14-15. CCP section 389 governs the joinder of parties and the inclusion of all persons whose interests are so directly involved that the court cannot render a fair adjudication in their absence. When filing the Petition, the Petitioners believed that it was possible that Developer and Berserker were connected and named Developer as a Real Party out of an abundance of caution.  Later discussions between counsel evidence that Developer and Berserker have no relationship. Consistent with Developer’s own arguments, if a writ is issued in this action, the only parties that will need to take action or be impacted will be the City and Berserker, not Developer. Developer has no interest in this action and leave should be granted to dismiss it as an unnecessary party.  Mot. at 15. The City and Developer respond that Lintz is conflating a petitioner’s mandamus standing with the separate law that all indispensable parties must be joined.  To obtain a writ, a petitioner must have a beneficial interest in the writ itself.  CCP §1086.  The controlling test for determining whether a party is an indispensable party, however, concerns whether the “plaintiff seeks some type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure or affect the interest of a third person not joined, that third person is an indispensable party.”  Templeton Action Comm. v. Cnty. of San Luis Obispo, 228 Cal.App.4th 427, 431.  Tanager View is the developer of the Project and the permit applicant.  The developer of a project is a real party-in-interest, irrespective of whether or not they own the underlying land.  Id. at 431 (“When a plaintiff seeks to set aside a developer’s permit, it is obvious that such relief directly affects and can injure the developer’s interests.”).  Lintz provides no case law supporting any other conclusion.  If he chooses to dismiss Developer, he may do so without the court’s permission. But his motion inappropriately seeks an advisory opinion, which the court should decline.  Opp. at 19-20. Lintz replies that the City and Developer fail to establish why Developer is an indispensable party now that it has sold the Property to Berserker.  The developer in Templeton had not sold its property.  228 Cal.App.4th at 429-31 (Templeton Properties was the owner of the land subject to the application).  Reply at 11. Lintz is correct that Developer does not appear to have any interest in this mandamus case.  However, the opposition also is correct that Lintz is free to dismiss Developer.  See CCP §§ 581(b)(1), 581d; CRC 3.1390.  If it seeks to remain in the case as an indispensable party, Developer would then have to make an appropriate motion.  E. Conclusion The motion for leave to amend to add Samatas as Petitioner, and to dismiss Developer as a Real Party, is denied.