  Case Number:  19STCV41053    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 2:55 p.m. on June 3, 2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on June 3, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cochrane
Construction, Inc.’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint filed by Lauren Shahid
Architect, Inc. is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the sixth,
seventh and eighth causes of action. Cross-Defendant is to answer the remaining
allegations in the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Demurrer To Cross-Complaint
 
Request
For Judicial Notice
 
            Cross-Defendant requests that the
Court take judicial notice of the following: 1. The Cross-Complaint of Lauren
Shadid Architect, Inc., Page 8, Line 22 through Page 10, Line 9, and Exhibits
“A” and “B” thereto pursuant to Shadid’s Notice of Errata to Cross-Complaint
filed by Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc., on March 13, 2024; 2. The Standard Form
Construction Agreement, PDF Page 9 of 16 of Exhibit “B” to Shadid
Cross-Complaint pursuant to Shadid’s Notice of Errata to Cross-Complaint filed
by Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc., on March 13, 2024; 
3. The
Standard Form Construction Agreement, PDF Page 13 of 16 of Exhibit “B” to
Shadid Cross-Complaint pursuant to Shadid’s Notice of Errata to Cross-Complaint
filed by Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc., on March 13, 2024; 4. Shadid
Cross-Complaint, Page 10, Line 10 through Page 11, Line 26, and Exhibits “A”
and “B” thereto pursuant to Shadid’s Notice of Errata to Cross-Complaint filed
by Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc., on March 13, 2024; 5. Shadid Cross-Complaint,
Page 12, Lines 4-25.
 
            Requests Nos. 1 – 5 are GRANTED per
Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court records).
 
            Cross-Complaint requests that the
Court take judicial notice of the following:1. 
Cross-Complaint of Cochrane Construction, Inc., filed in the instant
matter (Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 19STCV41053) on June 18,
2020; 2. Amendment to Cross-Complaint (MOE 40 - Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc.),
filed on October 28, 2021.
 
            Requests Nos. 1 and 2 are GRANTED
per Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court records).
 
Meet
and Confer
 
            The Declaration of Todd A. Daley
reflects that Cross-Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cochrane
Construction, Inc. demurs to the Cross-Complaint filed by Lauren Shahid
Architect, Inc. as follows:  
1.         Sixth Cause of Action (Express
Indemnity).
            Cross-Defendant argues that the
language of the Construction Contract entered into between the Contractor
Cochrane and the owners, Morfords, contains indemnification language that
identifies Cochrane as the Contractor, not the subcontractor, and cannot be
construed to impose an indemnity obligation upon itself.
            Cross-Defendant argues that there
are no facts pled whereby Shahid is an intended third-party beneficiary of the
indemnity provision. Cross-Defendant argues that Shahid is an independent
architect and non-signatory to the agreement, and the contractual language
cannot be interpreted to benefit Shahid.
            Cross-Defendant also argues that the
terms of the agreement expressly reject CCI’s liability for any damages arising
from the performance of an independent contract between the Morfords (as
Owners), and Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc. (as Architect) – at Paragraph “F” –
Hold Harmless provision;
            Cross-Complainant argues:  even though Cochrane might be considered in
ordinary parlance to be a “general contractor” – statutes and case law hold
that where, as here – the homeowner has been defined as the “Owner-Builder, the
homeowner is technically both the owner and the general contractor and Cochrane
is therefore a “subcontractor” That is why the document is titled as it
is.  That is why Addendum “A” refers to
the contracting parties under the agreement as Cochrane itself and
“Owner/Client.”   That is why the only
two spaces for signature are for “Cochrane Construction” and
“Owner-Builder”.  That is why the only
entities that signed it – and each page of Addendum “A” – were Cochrane and the
Morfords.  Many of the provisions refer
to Cochrane by name, and define rights and obligations by and between Cochrane
and the Morfords.  In other words,
Addendum “A” was clearly designed to be signed by, provide provisions
concerning, and bind “Cochrane Construction” and the “Owner-Builder.”
 
            Cross-Complainant argues that a hold
harmless clause is not synonymous with an indemnification provision because the
hold harmless clause simply refers to a waiver by one party of the right to sue
another for first party damage claims, whereas an indemnity clause requires a
third-party claim. 
 
            Cross-Complainant argues that, as a
matter of fact and law, an architect acts as a representative or agent of the
owner in its dealings with contractors and subcontractors. Cross-Complainant
argues that where Shadid acted as the owner’s agent/representative in dealing 
with
Cochrane, a provision requiring Cochrane to indemnify the owner’s agents
clearly manifests the intent and obligation of the parties that such be done,
and obviously and on its face directly inures to the benefit of that agent – in
this case, Shadid.
 
            In the Reply, Cross-Defendant argues
that the contract does not refer to the Morfords as “Owner-Builders.” Instead,
every signature line refers to the Morfords as “Owner-Buyer,” not
“Owner-Builder.” Nowhere, in the Contract are the Morfords referred to as
“Owner-Builders.” 
 
            Cross-Defendant also argues that
Cross-Complainant’s third-party beneficiary status must appear from the
language of the agreement, not merely alleging such.
            
In general, indemnity refers to “the
obligation resting on one party to make good a loss or damage another party has
incurred.” (Rossmoor Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc. (1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 628
[119 Cal. Rptr. 449, 532 P.2d 97].) Historically, the obligation of indemnity
took three forms: (1) indemnity expressly provided for by contract (express
indemnity); (2) indemnity implied from a contract not specifically mentioning
indemnity (implied contractual indemnity); and (3) indemnity arising from the
equities of particular circumstances (traditional equitable indemnity). n2
(Ibid.; see PPG Industries, Inc. v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th
310, 318 [84 Cal. Rptr. 2d 455, 975 P.2d 652].)
 
. . . [*1158] . . .
 
Express indemnity refers to an obligation that
arises “‘by virtue of express contractual language establishing a duty in one
party to save another harmless upon the occurrence of specified
circumstances.’” (Bay Development, supra, 50 Cal.3d at p. 1029.) Express
indemnity generally is not subject to equitable considerations or a joint legal
obligation to the injured party; rather, it is enforced in accordance with the
terms of the contracting parties' agreement. (Markley v. Beagle (1967) 66
Cal.2d 951, 961 [59 Cal. Rptr. 809, 429 P.2d 129].) In the context of
noninsurance indemnity agreements, if a party seeks to be indemnified for its
own active negligence, or regardless of the indemnitor's fault, the contractual
language on the point “must be particularly clear and explicit, and will be
construed strictly against the indemnitee.” (Crawford v. Weather  Shield
Mfg. Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 552 [79 Cal. Rptr. 3d 721, 187 P.3d 424]; see
also E. L. White, supra, 21 Cal.3d at p. 507.) In this sense, express indemnity
allows contracting parties “great freedom to allocate [indemnification]
responsibilities as they see fit,” and to agree to “protections beyond those
afforded by the doctrines of implied or equitable indemnity.” (Crawford v.
Weather Shield Mfg. Inc., supra, 44 Cal.4th at pp. 551–552.) . . .
 
(Prince v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151,
1157-58.)
 
      The sixth cause of action is
based on the following allegations:
 
45. The Construction Contract entered
into between COCHRANE and the MORFORDS includes a two page “ADDENDUM A”.  Although for some reason, the title refers to
it relating to “HOME OWNER & SUBCONTRACTOR,” the only signatories to
“ADDENDUM A” are COCHRANE and the MORFORDS, and no subcontractor is identified
in it, and so it appears that the obligations referenced in “ADDENDUM A” are
those of COCHRANE and the MORFORDS, respectively.  As relevant hereto, ADDENDUM A provides, in
relevant part: 
 
G.  
INDEMNIFICATION: To the fullest extent permitted by law, subcontractor
shall indemnify and hold harmless owner and contractor and their
agents and 
employees from
claims, demands, causes of action, and liabilities of every kind and nature
whatsoever arising out of or in connection with sub-contractor’s operations
performed under this agreement. This indemnification shall extend to claims
occurring after this agreement is terminated as well as while it is in force.
The indemnity shall apply regardless of any active and/or passive negligent act
or 
omission of owner or contractor or
their agents or employees, but subcontractor 
shall not be obligated to indemnify any
party for claims arising from the sole 
negligence or willful misconduct of
owner or contractor or their agents or employees or caused solely by the
designs provided by such parties.  
 
[Emphasis and bolding added] 
 
 46. Under the totality of the circumstances,
it appears that the parties intended that the indemnification obligations
referencing “sub-contractor” to be applicable to COCHRANE.  
 
47. As a matter of fact, and law, an
architect acts as a representative or agent of the owner, in its dealings with
contractors and subcontractors [See e.g., Atherly v. MacDonald, Young &
Nelson (1956) 142 Cal.App. 2d 575, 582 -584 (construction manager, as a matter
of law, owner's representative); Huber, 
Hunt & Nichols v. Moore (1977) 67
Cal.App.3d. 278, 289, 299-302; 136 Cal.Rptr. 603 [architect acts as owner's
representative when supervising construction work, and is immune from suit by
contractor in that capacity]; Alexander v. Hammarberg (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d
872, 880, 884 ["An architect is the agent of the owner, empowered to
supervise and instruct the builders, and to see to it that they comply with
their contract]; Ratcliff Architects v. Vanir Construction  Management, Inc., (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 595,
606 [noting that construction manager, as representative of owner, owes an
undivided duty of loyalty to the same]; The Fifth Day, LLC v. Bolotin  (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 939, 943-945, 948, 955
[listing duties of the same and noting that such was properly characterized as
"generally to act as Owner's agent with respect to the various parties
connected with the development of the project"]; Ruiz v. Herman Weissker,
Inc. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 52, 55, 56 [contract administrator for owner deemed
owner's representative for purposes of the Privette doctrine]; Buzgheia v.
Leasco Sierra Grove (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 374, 379; Garden  Grove 
Comm. Church v. Pittsburgh-Des Moines
Steel Co. (1983) 140 Cal.App.3d 251, 256-258]. As such, COCHRANE had and has an
obligation to defend, indemnify and hold Cross-Complainant harmless from and
against the MORFORDS’ claims. 
 
48. In light of these circumstances,
Cross-Complainant is an express and/or intended third party beneficiary of the
express indemnity provision and is entitled to the benefit of the same.  
 
49. By way of this Cross-Complaint, and
by other means, Cross-Complainant has tendered its defense to cross-defendants,
and each of them. Cross-Defendants have and continue to refuse to pay for
Cross-Complainants defense and other costs or expenses, or to agree to
indemnify Cross-Complainant herein.  As
such, Cross-Complainant has and continues to be damaged to the extent of all
losses, costs, expenses and attorney fees, among other damages, as a result
thereof.  
 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 45 – 49.)
 
            The Court
examines the following pertinent contractual language in ADDENDUM A (RJN, Exh.
B to Cross-Complaint per Notice of Errata filed on March 13, 2024):
 
Cochrane Construction Inc. hereinafter called
"Contractor" and/or “Beneficiary” 
 agrees to provide
the following labor, materials and construction its accordance with the  plans and specifications as may be added and
initialed by the parties attached hereto. 
 
 
            CCI’s Standard Form Construction
Agreement – Addendum A further provides: 
 
 F) HOLD HARMLESS. The homeowner/client agrees
to ' hold harmless' Cochrane Construction, Inc. in any and all instances where
independent contractors, sub-contractors, and/or contracted labor, engaged
independently by the homeowner / client and/or hired specifically by
Cochrane Construction, Inc., cause real and actual damage to personal
property and/or the project and materials/ components associated with such
in general, due to negligence, in which instances, the independent contractors,
sub-contractors, and/or contracted labor 's liability insurance and/or bond is
surrendered. Homeowner / client agrees to pursue restitution with said
independent contractors, sub- contractors, and/or contracted labor exclusively
and hold Cochrane Construction, Inc., writer of contactor's license bond, and
insurance carriers, harmless in such instances. Cochrane Construction,
Inc. cannot be held liable for work performed under independent contracts
executed between the homeowner/ client and independent  contractors, sub-contractors, and/or
contracted labor specifically outside the scope of work expressly contracted
between the homeowner / client and Cochrane 
Construction, Inc. due to fraud, negligence, abandonment or otherwise.
Furthermore,  homeowner agrees to pay
Cochrane Construction, Inc. restitution, in full, for any and all  real and actual damage to company equipment,
vehicles, personal property and/or the 
project and materials / components associated with such in general, as
specifically caused by independent contractors, sub-contractors, and/or
contracted labor procured independently by the homeowner/ client. 
 
 G) INDEMNIFICATION: To the fullest extent
permitted by law, sub-contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless
owner and contractor and their agents and 
 employees from claims, demands, causes of
actions and liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of or in
connection with sub-contractor's 
 operations performed under this agreement. This indemnification shall extend to claims  occurring after this agreement is terminated
as well as while it is in force. The 
indemnity shall apply regardless of any active and/or passive
negligent act or omission  of owner or
contractor, or their agents or employees, but subcontractor shall not
be  obligated to indemnify any party for
claims arising from the sole negligence or willful  misconduct of owner or contractor
or their agents or employees or caused solely by the  designs provided by such parties. The
indemnity set forth in the addendum shall not be  limited by insurance requirements or by any
other provision of this agreement. All work 
covered by this agreement done at the site or in preparing or delivering
materials or  equipment to the site shall
be the sole risk of sub-contractor until the completed work is
accepted by contractor. 
 
     (Bold emphasis and underlining added.)

 
A common-sense reading of
the foregoing language reveals that the reference to “sub-contractor,” “owner,”
and “contractor,” refers to three separate parties.  “The language of a contract is to
govern its interpretation, if the language is clear and explicit, and does not
involve an absurdity.”  (Civ. Code §
1638.) Further, as pointed out by Cross-Defendant,
the Morfords are referred to as “Owner-Buyer,” not “Owner-Builder.” Thus,
Cross-Complainant’s argument that the Morfords are intended to be the “contractor”
referred to in the Agreement is not persuasive.
 
As such, the contractual
language holds Contractor—here, demurring Cross-Defendant Cochrane
Construction, Inc., harmless from the negligence of work performed under
independent contracts executed between homeowner / client (i.e., the Morfords),
and independent contractors such as Cross-Complainant Lauren Shahid Architect,
Inc. Moreover, the express indemnification provision is only imposed upon a
sub-contractor, relative to the owner (the Morfords) or the contractor
(Cochrane Construction, Inc.) There is no language whereby Lauren Shahid
Architect, Inc. may claim that it is entitled to claim indemnity from Cochrane
under this language.
 
Nor does the contractual
language permit a reading whereby Shahid is an intended third-party
beneficiary: 
 
“The test for determining whether a contract was made for
the benefit of a third person is whether an intent to benefit a third person
appears from the terms of the contract. [Citation.] If the terms
of the contract necessarily require the promisor to confer a benefit on a third
person, then the contract, and hence the parties thereto, contemplate a benefit
to the third person. The parties are presumed to intend the consequences of a
performance of the contract.” (Johnson v. Holmes Tuttle Lincoln-Merc.
(1958) 160 Cal.App.2d 290, 297 [325 P.2d 193]; accord, Prouty, supra,
121 Cal.App.4th at p. 1232; Souza v. Westlands Water Dist. (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 879, 891 [38 Cal. Rptr. 3d 78].) In other words, “the
doctrine presupposes that the defendant made a promise which, if performed,
would have benefited the third party.” (Souza v. Westlands Water Dist.,
at p. 891.)
Under the intent test, “it is not enough that the third party
would incidentally have benefited from performance.” (Souza v. Westlands
Water Dist., supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 891.) “The circumstance that
a literal contract interpretation would result in a benefit to the third party
is not enough to entitle that party to demand enforcement. The contracting
parties must have intended to confer a benefit on the third party.” (Neverkovec
v. Fredericks (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 337,
348  [**469]  [87 Cal. Rptr. 2d 856].) “The effect of
the section is to exclude enforcement by persons who are only incidentally or
remotely benefited.” (Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590 [15
Cal. Rptr. 821, 364 P.2d 685].)
 [*1023] 
 
On the other hand, “the third person need not be named or
identified individually to be an express beneficiary.” (Kaiser Engineers,
Inc. v. Grinnell Fire Protection Systems Co. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1050,
1055 [219 Cal. Rptr. 626]; accord, Soderberg v. McKinney (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1760, 1774 [52 Cal. Rptr. 2d 635].) “A third party may
enforce a contract where he shows that he is a member of a class of persons for
whose benefit it was made.” (Garratt v. Baker (1936) 5 Cal.2d
745, 748 [56 P.2d 225]; see also, e.g., Soderberg v. McKinney, at
p. 1774; Souza v. Westlands Water Dist., supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at
p. 891.)
 
While intent is pivotal, there is no requirement that “both of the
contracting parties must intend to benefit the third party … .” (Schauer v.
Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 949, 958 [23 Cal. Rptr.
3d 233].) Rather, “it is sufficient that the promisor must have understood that
the promisee had such intent.” (Lucas v. Hamm, supra, 56 Cal.2d at p.
591; accord, Schauer v. Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc., at p. 958.)
Thus, a third party will qualify as an intended beneficiary where “the
circumstances indicate that the promisee”—here, Mobile—“intends to give the
beneficiary the benefit of the promised performance.” (Rest.2d., supra,
§ 302, subd. (1)(b).)
 
Ultimately, the determination turns on the manifestation of intent
to confer a benefit on the third party. (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002)
27 Cal.4th 516, 524 [117 Cal. Rptr. 2d 220, 41 P.3d 46].) “Ascertaining this
intent is a question of ordinary contract interpretation.” (Ibid.)
 
(Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 1004, 1022-23
[bold emphasis added].)
 
Moreover, a third party
beneficiary cannot assert rights greater than those of the contracting party. “[A]n agent ordinarily has no contract rights greater than those of
the principal, because in seeking to assert rights under the principal's
contract, the agent ‘is subject to the same defenses by the other party
thereto.’” (Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013)
216 Cal.App.4th 830, 840.) Even if Shahid is considered to the agent of the
Owner (Morfords), they have no right of indemnity as against Cochrane pursuant
to the above quoted language. 
 
As such,
this cause of action fails. The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
2.         Seventh Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract).
 
            Cross-Defendant argues that the
Construction Agreement defines CCI as “Contractor” and the Morfords as
“Owners,” but only imposes indemnity obligations upon subcontractors and
homeowner toward Cochrane as the Contractor. 
 
            Cross-Defendant argues that there
are no facts pled whereby Shahid is an intended third-party beneficiary of the
Construction Agreement. Cross-Defendant argues that Shahid is an independent
architect and non-signatory to the agreement, and the contractual language
cannot be interpreted to benefit Shahid.
 
            Cross-Defendant also argues that the
terms of the agreement expressly reject CCI’s liability for any damages arising
from the performance of an independent contract between the Morfords (as
Owners), and Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc. (as Architect) – at Paragraph “F” –
Hold Harmless provision;
 
            For the reasons discussed above re:
the sixth cause of action, this cause of action also fails. The demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
3.         Eighth Cause of Action (Negligence).
 
            Cross-Defendant argues that purely
economic loss, with no personal injury or property damage, is not recoverable
under a tort theory of negligence. (See e.g., Southern California Gas Leak
Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 397-398.)
 
            Cross-Defendant also argues that it
owed no duty to Shahid as architect under the Biakanja factors.  
 
            Cross-Complainant argues that
Cochrane has asserted an identical cause of action against Shahid in the
Cochrane Cross-Complaint and thus is estopped from asserting no duty of care
exists or cause of action can be stated because its own arguments apply with
equal or greater force to its own cause of action.
 
            Cross-Complainant alleges that the
economic loss doctrine is limited, particularly where intended beneficiary
status is alleged. Cross-Complainant also alleges that Cross-Defendant did not
engage in a detailed analysis of the Biakanja factors.  
 
            Cross-Complainant argues that in the
construction/design context, the Courts will often impose a duty to prevent
pure economic loss when there is no privity of contract when the injured party
is an intended beneficiary of a contract between the defendant and another
party.
 
            In the Reply, Cross-Defendant  argues that, unlike Shadid, CCI was required
under Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 411.35, to retain, and did retain, the services
of a California licensed Professional Engineer and licensed Architect, Edward
R. Panasci, P.E., AIA, to review the architectural plans drawn up by Lauren
Shadid Architect, Inc., and to issue a Certificate of Merit before any claim
for professional design negligence could be plead.  CCI’s architect found Shadid’s design plans
to be incompetent, and further found that Lauren Shadid Architect, Inc. was
negligent in the performance of its professional services in this matter, thus
issuing a Certificate of Merit filed with this Court on October 28, 2021.  (RFJN of CCI’s Certificate of Merit filed
10-28-21).  Shadid’s general tort claim
for negligence was not brought under the statutory requirements of C.C.P. §
411.35 and is not “identical.”
 
            The Cross-Complaint alleges at ¶¶ 59
– 61 as follows:
 
59.   COCHRANE and
BURGOS owed a duty to the other participants in the construction process to
ensure that its work, and the work of its/their subcontractors, complied with
the applicable standard of care, and was not so woefully deficient as to cause
delays and additional cost and expense to the other participants in the design
and/or construction process, including Cross-Complainant.   
 
60. COCHRANE and BURGOS work was grossly negligent and in
almost every particular.  For example,
COCHRANE effectively failed to be involved with the work and/or to supervise
the work of its subcontractors, particularly BURGOS.  The plans were not followed and numerous
mistakes were made.  By way of example
only, COCHRANE and BURGOS placed the foundations and walls in the wrong
locations.  All of these errors had
entirely foreseeable consequences, including, but not limited to, additional
design expenditures, and the institution of litigation, which eventually
encompassed Cross-Complainant.  
 
61. As a consequence of Cross-Defendants acts and
omissions, Cross-Complainant was forced to spend hundreds of hours
attempting to address the problems, preparing as-built drawings and the like,
for which it has not been compensated. 
It therefore seeks to recover these additional fees and costs, as
well as other damages, against Cross-Defendants.  In addition, it has been named as a
defendant, and forced to incur defense costs and expenditures, solely as a
result of the negligent and other acts and omissions of the Cross-Defendants,
for which it seeks recovery under the “tort of another” doctrine, as well as
under other relevant theories and causes of action herein.  
    
(Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 59 – 61.)
 
            For the reasons discussed above re:
the sixth and seventh causes of action, Cross-Complainant has not pled facts
demonstrating that it is an third-party beneficiary of the Construction
contract between the Owners (Morfords) and the Contractor (Cochrane). As such,
Cross-Complainant’s discussion of duties imposed in third-party beneficiary
situations are inapposite. 
 
To establish a cause of action for
negligence, the plaintiff must show that the “defendant had a duty to use due
care, that he breached that duty, and that the breach was the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Nally v. Grace Community Church (1988)
47 Cal.3d 278, 292 [253 Cal. Rptr. 97, 763 P.2d 948].) Recovery for negligence
depends as a threshold matter on the existence of a legal duty of care. (Gas
Leak Cases, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 397.)
 
(Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213.)
 
 [E]conomic
damages, standing alone, can be recovered under some circumstances in an action
for negligence. "[A]n injury to the plaintiff's economic interests should
not go uncompensated merely because it was unaccompanied by any injury to his
person or property." (Citations omitted.) Further, the reasoning of J'Aire
is wholly incompatible with a limitation of the cause of action to those
instances in which the plaintiff and defendant are not in privity, the
secondary basis for the trial court's ruling. 

Nevertheless, J'Aire does require that the parties have a "special
relationship" for such a cause of action to arise. (J'Aire, supra, 24 Cal.
3d at p. 804.) That special relationship must give rise to a duty on the part
of the defendant to use due care to avoid economic injury to the plaintiff.
(Id. at p. 803.) In the context of a motion for judgment on the pleadings, this
means the complaint must allege facts constituting such special relationship. .
. . 


(Ott v. Alfa-Laval Agri, Inc.
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1448.)
 
J'Aire set forth six “criteria” for determining whether a
special relationship exists pursuant to which a tort duty should be imposed:
“(1) the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff,
(2) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3)  the degree of certainty that the plaintiff
suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the defendant's
conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.” (J'Aire, supra, 24 Cal.3d at p. 804; see Biakanja v.
Irving (1958)
49 Cal.2d 647, 648–651 [320 P.2d 16] [applying these factors and holding
that notary public who prepared defective will had duty to intended
beneficiary].) “Ultimately, duty is a question of public policy. [Citation.] When determining whether a duty of care exists”
in a purely economic loss case, courts examine and balance the factors set
forth above. (Ratcliff
Architects v. Vanir Construction Management, Inc., supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 605.)


(Mega RV Corp. v. HWH Corp. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
1318, 1341.)
 
 
The primary exception to the
general rule of no recovery for negligently inflicted
purely economic losses is where the plaintiff and
the defendant have a “special relationship.” (J'Aire, supra, 24 Cal.3d at p. 804.) What we mean by special relationship is
that the plaintiff was an intended beneficiary of a particular transaction
but was harmed by the defendant's negligence in carrying it out. Take,
for example, Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647 [320 P.2d
16] (Biakanja). There, we held that the intended beneficiary of a
will could recover for assets she would have received if the notary had not
been negligent in preparing the document. (Id. at pp.
650–651.) A special relationship existed between the intended beneficiary
and the notary in Biakanja, we emphasized, because “the ‘end and
aim’ of the transaction” between the nonparty decedent and the notary was to
ensure that the decedent's estate passed to the intended beneficiary. (Id. at
p. 650.)
 
For similar reasons, in J'Aire we held that
a special relationship existed between a restaurant operator and a contractor
hired by a third party property owner to renovate the space rented by the
restaurant operator. (J'Aire, supra, 24 Cal.3d at pp. 804–805.) So when
the contractor negligently failed
to complete the construction work on time, the restaurant operator could
recover purely economic losses it suffered as a result. (J'Aire,
at pp. 804–805.)
 
(Southern California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7
Cal.5th 391, 400 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
1.          The
extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff.
 
            There are no facts pled whereby the
construction project—the transaction—was intended to benefit Lauren Shahid
Architect, Inc. Clearly, the intended beneficiary of the transaction was the
Morfords as Owners. This factor weighs heavily against a finding of duty owed
by Cross-Defendant contractor to Cross-Complainant architect. 
 
2.         The foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff.
 
There is a low degree of foreseeability of harm to an
architect—whose work generally precedes construction—and negligence of a
contractor. 
 
3.         The degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury
and (4) The closeness of the connection between the defendant's
conduct and the injury suffered.
 
 
As for degree of certainty that Cross-Complainant suffered
injury and the closeness of the connection between Cross-Defendant’s conduct
and Cross-Complainant’s injury, such injury is two degrees removed from the
contractor: the claim of having to draw additional plans and not being paid for
it is the direct result of the Owners not paying the architect for those plans,
and the claim of having to defend against the lawsuit is the direct result of
the Owners suing the architect. 
 
These factor weigh against finding a duty.
 
5.         The moral
blame attached to the defendant’s conduct.
 
Alleged negligence in construction does not carry a high
degree of moral blame, absent catastrophic failure which caused injury to life
or limb. This factor weighs against finding a duty.
 
6.         The policy of preventing future harm.
 
There is no strong policy of preventing future harm of the
type asserted in the Cross-Complaint. Having to perform additional work and not
being paid for it is just an unavoidable aspect of doing business. This factor weighs against finding a
duty.
 
For the foregoing reason, the Court finds that no special
relationship exists between Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant which would
give rise to a duty to avoid negligently inflicting economic harm upon
Cross-Complainant.
 
Cross-Complainant’s argument that Cross-Defendant should be
estopped from challenging this negligence cause of action because Cochrane
asserts a negligence cause of action against Shahid is meritless. Estoppel does
not work that way[1].
Moreover, the J’Aire analysis is distinct. Further, Shahid should have
demurred to the Cochrane Cross-Complaint. 
 
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
 
The Court notes that Cross-Complainant is not left without
recourse. The proper theory of recovery as against Cochrane is equitable
indemnity and/or contribution, which is asserted against all Cross-Defendants
in the tenth cause of action.
 
Cross-Defendant
is to answer the remaining allegations in the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.


