  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  74 The
Wonderful Company v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Co. et al. 
Plaintiff The Wonderful Company’s Motion
to Seal Portions of its Opposition to Anthem’s Motion for Summary Judgement. 
 
BACKGROUND  
This
action arises out of a contract dispute. On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
its motion to seal portions of its opposition to Anthem’s Motion for Summary
Judgement. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to
the public. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently,
pleadings, motions, evidence, and other papers may not be filed under seal
merely by stipulation of the parties; rather, a prior court order is necessary.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (a).) Rule 2.550(d) states “that
the court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly
finds facts that establish:  

There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
     right of public access to the record; 


The overriding interest supports sealing the
     record; 


A substantial probability exists that the overriding
     interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 


The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 


No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
     overriding interest.” 

If the court fails to make the
required findings, the order is deficient and cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
Sanctions may be imposed for overboard requests to seal. (Id. at p.
500.)  
 
DISCUSSION
              California law recognizes a constitutional
right of access to court proceedings and court documents because the public has
an interest in observing and assessing the performance of the judicial system.  (In Re Marriage of Tamir (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 1068, 1078; see also McNair v. NCAA (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 25, 31.) The first step to seal records within a civil
case requires the movant to identify an interest that overcomes the right of
public access.  TWC identifies two
categories of documents to seal (1) Private Health Information relating to the
care of two minors and (2) Sensitive financial and proprietary business
information.  
            With
respect to the first category of information, personally identifiable health
information of non-party minors, TWC argues that personal health information is
protected by an overriding interest in privacy. 
The Court finds that the minor patients’ interest in personal health
information overrides public access.  TWC
has a right to seal documents containing sensitive medical information.  (Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th
838, 850.)
With
respect to the second category of information, the Court finds that the privacy
interest in confidential and proprietary business, including sensitive
financial information overrides the public right of access.  TWC has a right to seal documents containing
business procedures and other proprietary information.  (McGaun v. Endovascular Technologies, Inc.
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988-989.) 
The
proposed sealing includes portions of TWC’s Opposition to Anthem’s Motion for
Summary Judgement, TWC’s Responses to Anthem’s Separate Statement, Georgeann
Edford’s Declaration in Support of TWC’s Opposition, Ashley Milnes’s
Declaration in Support of TWC’s Opposition, and TWC’s Evidentiary Objections.  The designations are narrowly tailored to
information regarding proprietary and sensitive business information and the
personally identifiable information of non-part minors.  The court agrees that no less restrictive
means exist. 
CONCLUSION
The
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to seal.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.