  Case Number:  22SMCV02432    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Robert Meza’s Motion to Reconsider Sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiff Robert Meza to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Robert Meza (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court to reconsider its May 22, 2024 order awarding sanctions against Plaintiff in favor of Defendant Robert Lance (“Defendant”) in connection with the Court’s order granting Defendant’s motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to and comply with a demand for a physical examination.Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), allows a Court to reconsider a prior order as follows:When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.In the motion, Defendant moved for an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to and comply with a demand for a physical examination on the ground that Plaintiff had failed to appear on two different occasions, despite receiving notice of the examinations. The Court noted that Plaintiff had alleged he suffered bodily injury in a motor vehicle accident, thereby placing his physical condition in controversy, and despite efforts by Defendant to meet and confer, Plaintiff had failed to appear for examination without reason. In connection with the motion, Defendant moved for monetary sanctions for costs incurred in bringing the motion and as a result of Plaintiff’s failure to appear for a physical examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.410, and the Court ordered a reduced sanction award of $2,760.00. Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the motion.First, the present motion is not timely, as the order dated May 22, 2024, shows that Plaintiff waived notice of the order, giving Plaintiff 10 days from May 22, 2024, to file this motion. The motion should have been filed by June 3, 2024, to account for the weekend, but Plaintiff did not file the motion until June 5, 2024. Second, Plaintiff has failed to provide the required affidavit to support his motion, as he simply provide a two-page memorandum of points and authorities with several exhibits attached.Moreover, even if Plaintiff’s motion did not suffer from these procedural errors warranting denial, Plaintiff has failed to show new or different facts, circumstances, or law warranting reconsideration. Plaintiff argues here that Defendant unilaterally set the examinations, Plaintiff had never confirmed his availability to appear on the noticed dates, and Plaintiff has now worked with Defendant and set a confirmed date for physical examination. Plaintiff also argues that he had drafted a stipulation to set a future date for examination, and this case was transferred to another attorney within the firm, such that the current attorney did not have time to oppose the motion.Notably, “[the burden under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) First, Plaintiff appeared at the hearing on the motion, so, as Plaintiff notes in his motion, he informed the Court at the hearing that the physical examinations had been unilaterally set. This did not excuse Plaintiff from appearing, particularly given he had not given reasons for not appearing. Second, Plaintiff’s subjective belief that Defendant would sign a stipulation to set the examination for a later date also does not warrant reconsidering a prior order. Third, a transfer to another attorney within the firm does not require the Court to reconsider an order when Plaintiff had ample opportunity to provide any relevant facts during oral argument, the firm has a duty to its clients to oppose motions regardless of reassignment of a case, and opposition would not have compelled a different result where Plaintiff had simply declined to appear for two noticed examinations. Put simply, the Court cannot conclude that Plaintiff could not, with reasonable diligence, have presented these facts in opposition to the motion, and even if he had, the facts would not have compelled a different result. Accordingly, Plaintiff Robert Meza’s Motion to Reconsider Sanctions is DENIED.