


[1]
Pursuant to CCP § 430.41, the meet and confer
requirement has been met. (Hazen Decl. ¶ 2.) HEARING DATE:                 Friday, January 19, 2024CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV16022CASE NAME:                        Andrew Kipper v.
Irwin Welker, et al.MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Arum Kim-Santiago
and SDCLA, Inc.OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Andrew KipperTRIAL DATE:                        Not SetPROOF OF SERVICE:           OK
                                                                                                                                                            
PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages and Request for Attorney FeesOPPOSITION:                        22 December 2023REPLY:                                  29
December 2023 TENTATIVE:                         Santiago Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages from the first, second, and fourth causes of action is granted with 10
days leave to amend. The Santiago Defendants’ request to strike attorney’s fees
from the first, second, fourth, sixteenth, and eighteenth causes of action is
granted without leave to amend. The Court continues the Case Management
Conference to February 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and sets a Non-Appearance OSC Re:
Amended Complaint for the same date and time. 
Santiago Defendants to give notice.
                                                                                                                                                            
 Background On July 10, 2023,
Andrew Kipper (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Irwin Welker; Aaron Kuhl,
Kuhl Design, Inc.; Arum Kim-Santiago, SDCLA, Inc.; Saeed Zolfaghari; Vista
Structural, Inc.; Armando Renteria; AR Construction General Contractor, Inc.;
Jose Garcia; Garcia Landscape Design; Juan Garcia’s Lawn Service; Markus
Barrington; Dan Stueve; Dan Stueve Properties; Dream Team Real Estate
Consultants, Inc.; and Does 1 to 100.  The Complaint alleges
18 causes of action:  1)    
Negligence (Against
Defendants Welker, Kuhl, Kuhl Design, Santiago, Santiago Design, Zolfaghari,
Vista Structural, Renteria, AR Construction, Garcia, Garcia Landscape, Garcia’s
Lawn Service, and DOES 1-100);2)    
Negligence Per Se (Against Defendants
Welker, Kuhl, Kuhl Design, Santiago, Santiago Design, Zolfaghari, Vista
Structural, Renteria, AR Construction, Garcia, Garcia Landscape, and DOES
1-100);3)    
Violation of California Business and
Professions Code §§ 7159 and 7160 (Against Defendants Welker and DOES 1-100);4)    
Negligent Supervision and Retention
(Against Defendants Welker, Kuhl, Kuhl Design, Santiago, Santiago Design,
Zolfaghari, Vista Structural, Renteria, AR Construction);5)    
Violation of California Civil Code §
1088 (Against Defendants Barrington, Stueve, Stueve Properties, and Dream
Team); 6)    
Violation of California Civil Code §
2079 (Against Defendants Barrington, Stueve, Stueve Properties, and Dream
Team);7)    
Intentional Misrepresentation (Against
Defendants Welker, Barrington, Stueve, Stueve Properties, Dream Team, and DOES
1-100);8)    
Negligent Misrepresentation(Against
Defendants Welker, Barrington, Stueve, Stueve Properties, Dream Team, and DOES
1-100);9)    
Intentional Nondisclosure of Material
Facts(Against Defendants Welker, Barrington, Stueve, Stueve Properties, Dream
Team and DOES 1-100);10) Negligent
Nondisclosure of Material Facts(Against Defendants Welker, Barrington, Stueve,
Stueve Properties, Dream Team, and DOES 1-100);11) Violation
of California Civil Code §1102, et. seq.(Against Defendants Welker and DOES
1-100);12) Breach
of Contract (Against Defendant Welker, and DOES 1-100);13) Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Against Defendant
Welker, and DOES 1-100);14) Strict
Liability (Against Defendant Welker, and DOES 1-100);15) Violation
of California Business and Professions Code §7044 (Against Defendants Welker
and DOES 1-100);16) Breach
of Implied Warranties (Against Defendants Welker, Kuhl, Kuhl Design, Santiago,
Santiago Design, Zolfaghari, Vista Structural, Renteria, AR Construction,
Garcia, Garcia Landscape, Garcia’s Lawn Service and DOES 1-100); 17) Breach
of Express Warranty(Against Defendant Welker); and18) Breach
of Implied Covenant to Perform Work in a Good and Competent Manner (Against
Defendants Welker, Kuhl, Kuhl Design, Santiago, Santiago Design, Zolfaghari,
Vista Structural, Renteria, AR Construction, Garcia, Garcia Landscape, Garcia’s
Lawn Service, and DOES 1-100).  On September 20,
2023, Plaintiff dismissed Vista Structural Inc. and Saeed Zolfaghari.  On September 19,
2023, Defendants Arum Kim-Santiago and SDCLA, Inc. (collectively “Santiago
Defendants”) filed a motion to strike Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Plaintiff
opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court.  motion to
strike I.         Legal Standard Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a
motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter
in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative
facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿  “Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿  II.        Discussion On September 19,
2023, Defendants Arum Kim-Santiago and SDCLA, Inc. (collectively “Santiago
Defendants”) filed this Motion seeking to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages as alleged against them and attorney’s fees.  The Santiago
Defendants seek to strike the following from Plaintiff’s Complaint:  
Paragraph 83: “In performing the aforementioned
     conduct, Defendants and each of them, acted with a conscious disregard for
     Mr. Kipper’s rights, constituting oppression, fraud, or malice so as to
     justify an award of exemplary and punitive damages.”
 
Paragraph 98: “In performing the aforementioned
     conduct, Defendants and each of them, acted with a conscious disregard for
     Mr. Kipper’s rights, constituting oppression, fraud, or malice so as to
     justify an award of exemplary and punitive damages.”
 
Paragraph 116: “In performing the aforementioned
     conduct, Defendants and each of them, acted with a conscious disregard for
     Mr. Kipper’s rights, constituting oppression, fraud, or malice so as to
     justify an award of exemplary and punitive damages.”
 
Pages 47-48, Paragraphs 2, 3 as to First, Second, and
     Fourth Causes of Action: “For
     punitive and/or exemplary damages in an amount sufficient to punish, deter
     and make an example of Defendants, and each of them;” “For attorneys’ fees
     and costs.”
Page 50, Paragraph 2 as to the Sixteenth and Eighteenth
     Causes of Action: ““For
     attorneys’ fees and costs.”
A.        Request to Strike Punitive Damages  To
state a claim for punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3294, a plaintiff must
allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression,
or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.)¿¿When the
defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)¿ ¿ “Malice”
is defined in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case
law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods,
Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c) (3).)  The Complaint alleges that Arum Kim-Santiago is the sole officer,
Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, and sole director
of SDCLA, Inc. (Compl. ¶ 6.) The Complaint also asserts that the Santiago
Defendants are alter egos of each other. (Compl. ¶¶ 24-26.) As to the first
cause of action, the Complaint alleges that the Santiago Defendants acted as “unlicensed contractors by overseeing the
execution of their designs in connection with the construction of the Home.”
(Compl. ¶ 77.) Accordingly, “Defendants had a duty to perform work at the Home
in a reasonably good and workmanlike manner, and to comply with all building
code requirements.” (Compl. ¶ 80.) Defendants breached these duties by “failing
to perform the work in a reasonably good and workmanlike manner, and instead
performing poor and substandard work, unlawfully performing such work without
proper permits, failing to perform such work in compliance with applicable
building codes causing resulting damage, and performing work at the Home that
was wholly insufficient to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy, which is required
by law.” (Compl. ¶ 81.)  The court finds that
the Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to show that the Santiago
Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud, sufficient to support a
claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff fails to plead facts showing how the
Santigo Defendants as designers acted as unlicensed contractors or how the
Santiago Defendants’ designs were purposefully deficient sufficient to support
a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud. (See Kendall Yacht Corp. v.
United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958 [“Mere negligence,
even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for “punitive
damages.”].)  Similarly, the second
cause of action for negligence per se states that “Defendants, and each of
them, were statutory obligation to comply with California Business and
Professions Code § 7028, which requires persons engaging in the business of, or
acting in the capacity of, a contractor be licensed.” (Compl. ¶ 89.) However,
the Complaint is devoid of facts showing why the Santiago Defendants, as
designers, were obligated to comply with section 7028. More importantly, that
the Santiago Defendants acted as unlicensed contractors is insufficient to show
that they acted with malice, oppression, or fraud by failing to obtain a
contractor’s license.  The fourth cause of
action for negligent supervision and retention alleges that the Santiago
Defendants “by acting as general contractors with respect to the construction
of the Home, had a duty to supervise the construction in a reasonably good and
workmanlike manner, to ensure that all supervised construction is in compliance
with building code requirements, and to dismiss anyone under their supervision
who hindered the good and timely completion of any and all construction on the
Home.” (Compl. ¶ 111.) The Santiago Defendants breached this duty “in that they
wholly failed to properly, and in a reasonably good and workmanlike manner,
supervise the construction of the Home, failed to ensure that the construction
was in compliance with building code requirements, and failed to dismiss those
under their supervision who were counterproductive to the good and timely
completion of construction on the Home, including, but not limited to,
Renteria, AR Construction, Garcia, Garcia Landscape, and Garcia’s Lawn Service.”
(Compl. ¶ 113.) Plaintiff fails to
allege facts to support the finding that the Santiago Defendants as designers
of the home acted as unlicensed contractors or how the failure to be licensed
contractors damaged Plaintiff sufficient to impose punitive damages on the Santiago
Defendants. The court finds that the fourth cause of action’s conclusory
characterization that Defendants conduct “acted with a conscious disregard for
Mr. Kipper’s rights, constituting oppression, fraud, or malice, to justify an
award of exemplary and punitive damages” is devoid of facts sufficient to
allege a claim for punitive damages. “ ‘When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant's conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or
unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary damages; such allegations
do not charge malice. [Citations.] When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim; fairness
demands that he receive adequate notice of the kind of conduct charged against
him.’ ” (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.)  The Santiago Defendants’ request to
strike Paragraphs 83, 98, and 116 from the first, second, and fourth causes of
action is granted with leave to amend. The court also grants the Santiago
Defendants’ request to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in the
Prayer for Relief as to the first, second, and fourth causes of action.              B.        Request to Strike Attorney’s Fees Attorney’s fees may be recovered as costs when authorized by
contract, statute, or law. (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).) The party claiming attorneys’ fees must establish entitlement to such
fees and the reasonableness of the fees claimed. (Civic Western
Corporation v. Zila Industries, Inc. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 1, 16.) The court agrees that Plaintiff fails to
show that he is entitled to attorney’s fees as requested for the first, second,
and fourth causes of action which are based on negligence. Moreover,
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address the request to strike the request for
attorney’s fees. Accordingly, the Santiago Defendants’ request to strike
attorney’s fees from the first, second, fourth, sixteenth, and eighteenth
causes of action is granted without leave to amend.  Conclusion Santiago Defendants’ motion to
strike punitive damages from the first, second, and fourth causes of action is
granted with 10 days leave to amend. The Santiago Defendants’ request to strike
attorney’s fees from the first, second, fourth, sixteenth, and eighteenth
causes of action is granted without leave to amend. The Court continues the
Case Management Conference to February 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. and sets a Non-Appearance
OSC Re: Amended Complaint for the same date and time.  Santiago Defendants to give notice.   


