  Case Number:  23STCV11801    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 26, 2023               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Andrea Campos v. Lucky Taro, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11801            
 
MOTION
FOR STAY PENDING RESOLUTION OF ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Lucky Taro, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Andre
Campos
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action under the Private Attorneys General Act, filed on May
24, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant systematically denied its employees
their full wages, timely paid wages, overtime, meal and rest breaks, and
accurate wage statements.
 
Defendant moves to stay this matter
pending resolution of a separate arbitration. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion for Stay Pending Resolution of the Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            The
Court orders this matter stayed pending resolution of the arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims under the Labor Code and the Fair Employment and Housing
Act. 
 
            The
Court sets a Status Conference Re: Resolution of Arbitration for March 20, 2023
at 8:30 AM.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court stay this matter pending resolution of a pending
arbitration of related issues. 
 
//
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
raises evidentiary objections to portions of Plaintiff’s Opposition and the
Declaration of Christian J. Petronelli in support of the opposition. Defendant
cites no authority requiring the Court to rule on evidentiary objections in the
context of a motion for stay, as opposed to a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).) Regardless, as the materials to
which Defendant objects are not relevant to this ruling, the Court declines to
rule on these objections. 
 
Factual History
 
            Most of the
factual history relevant to this motion is undisputed. Plaintiff signed a
Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims in the course of his employment by
Defendant. (Declaration of Cari A. Cohorn ISO Mot. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) That agreement
provides for arbitration of disputes arising out of or related to Plaintiff’s
employment by Defendants. (Id. Exh. A. §§ 1-5; see also Exh. B. §§ 1-5.)
Plaintiff submitted a demand for arbitration to the American Arbitration
Association on May 8, 2023, pursuant to the terms of the agreement. (Cohorn
Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
            In the
Arbitration, Plaintiff asserts claims for employment discrimination, failure to
engage in the interactive process, harassment, retaliation, and wrongful
termination under the Fair Employment and Housing Act. (Declaration of
Christian J. Petronnelli ISO Opp. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff also asserts claims under the
California Labor Code including meal and rest period violations, failure to
provide accurate wage and time statements under Labor Code section 226, and
waiting time penalties. (Id.) Plaintiff then filed the Complaint in this
action on May 24, 2023 seeking civil penalties under the Private Attorneys
General Act on behalf of himself and other employees for numerous violations of
the Labor Code by Defendant, including, inter alia, failure to provide meal and
rest periods, failure to provide accurate wage statements, and failure to timely
pay wages on termination. (See Complaint ¶¶ 24-37.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
argues that this case should be stayed pending resolution of the arbitration by
operation of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, or, in the alternative,
that the Court should exercise its inherent authority to stay this action.
 
1.     
Mandatory Stay Under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1281.4
 
            Defendant
first argues that this action is subject to a mandatory stay under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.4. This section provides, in relevant part: 
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4 [emphasis added].) Defendant
concedes that the Court has not ordered arbitration of any controversy in this
action, but contends that a stay is nonetheless appropriate under this
provision because Plaintiff voluntarily chose to arbitrate his FEHA and Labor
Code claims. Defendant cites no authority in support of this position, which
contradicts the express language of the statute that provides for a stay of the
action only when the Court has ordered arbitration. The Court having made no
such order, Section 1281.4 does not authorize the relief sought by Defendant in
these circumstances.
 
2.     
Discretionary Stay Under Inherent Authority
 
            Defendant
moves in the alternative to stay this proceeding pending resolution of the
arbitration under the Court’s inherent authority. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 128 subdivision (a)(8) states that the Court has the
inherent authority “[t]o amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8).) As a
consequence of this authority, trial courts “generally have the inherent power
to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that staying this action will conserve the time and effort of the
parties, counsel, and the Court, because arbitration of Plaintiff’s FEHA and
Labor Code claims will necessarily require resolution of issues which overlap
with issues raised in Plaintiff’s PAGA claims. Defendant contends that staying
this matter pending arbitration will avoid the risk of duplicative proceedings
resulting in conflicting rulings. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that there would not be a risk of conflicting
rulings because Plaintiff’s PAGA claims are not at issue in the arbitration.
Thus, Plaintiff argues, none of the findings by the arbitrator could have any
effect on Plaintiff’s PAGA claims, and specifically asserts that the arbitrator
will not be addressing Plaintiff’s standing to bring PAGA claims. While that
may be true, this does not mean that the arbitrator will confront no issues
that impact on Plaintiff’s standing to assert PAGA claims in this action.  As the California Supreme Court held in Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 1104, 1120, PAGA’s
statutory language in “section 2699, subdivision (c) defines ‘aggrieved
employee,’ and we have explained that ‘[t]he plain language of section 2699(c)
has only two requirements for PAGA standing.’ [Citation] The plaintiff must
allege that he or she is (1) ‘someone ‘who was employed by the alleged violator”’”
and (2) someone “‘”against whom one or more of the alleged violations was
committed.”’” [Citation].”  Because of
the overlapping Labor Code violations asserted in this PAGA action and in the
arbitration, the arbitrator will be compelled to resolve – one way or another –
whether Plaintiff was subjected to violations of his statutory rights.  It is true that Plaintiff need only prove
that he was subject to one type of Labor Code violation to have standing to
challenge all violations on behalf of all aggrieved parties, but Plaintiff has
brought all his Labor Code violations in the arbitration, thus leaving open the
possibility that the arbitrator could find he suffered no violation.  If this were so, the arbitrator’s decisions
on whether Plaintiff’s rights were violated would form the predicate for a
finding that he lacked standing to assert the PAGA claims.  (Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023)
88 Cal. App. 5th 65, 77-79 [arbitrator’s decision that no violation has
occurred has preclusive effect in PAGA action].)  Allowing the PAGA case to proceed to trial
would risk conflicting rulings in the two proceedings.  The Court is therefore persuaded that a stay
pending resolution of the arbitration is in the interests of justice and
judicial efficiency.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that a stay of this action pending resolution of
the arbitration is warranted under the Court’s inherent authority to control
its own proceedings. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Stay Pending Resolution of the Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
            The
Court orders this matter stayed pending resolution of the arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims under the Labor Code and the Fair Employment and Housing Act.

 
            The
Court sets a Status Conference Re: Resolution of Arbitration for March 20, 2023
at 8:30 AM.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 26,
2023                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 