 Case Number:  21STCV07298    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Carrie Gallagher,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV07298




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of West Covina,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September
18, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Tax
Costs
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Carrie Gallagher
Responding
Party: Defendant City of West Covina
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS IS
GRANTED IN PART. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided
by statute, “a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover
costs in any action or proceeding.”  (CCP
§ 1032(b).)  “Allowable costs shall be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” 
(CCP § 1033.5(c)(2).)  “If the
items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on
the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or
necessary.”  (Ladas v. California
State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 774.)  “On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.”  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff moves to tax certain costs that
are unreasonably high, not reasonably incurred, and not permitted by statute. 
 
Plaintiff asserts Defendant’s “filing
and motion” costs are unsupported by evidence and include improper messenger
fees. In opposition, Defendant admits that it is exempt from filing fees as a government
entity and represents that these fees are messenger and delivery fees of
courtesy copies to the Court. The Court will not allow these costs. This
department does not require courtesy copies, and messenger and delivery fees
are not expressly recoverable as costs. 
 
Plaintiff moves to strike deposition
costs, subpoena service of process costs, and “witness fees” on the grounds
that Defendant did not call these witnesses at trial and cannot recover a
“witness fee” of $275.00 to a county employee. The Court will allow recovery of
the deposition and subpoena costs but will tax the $275.00 fee paid to witness
Kyle Clayton as a county employee under the Gov. Code. Defendant does not cite
authority showing this cost is recoverable. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s
court reporter fees of $21,916.58 are twice as a high as they should be. In opposition, Defendant
represents that the amount over $10,200.00 (half of the court reporter costs
split between the parties) are for daily transcripts ordered during trial.
These transcripts were not ordered by the Court and are not recoverable. 
 
Plaintiff contends that $361.35 in enlargement of
exhibit costs should be taxed because the exhibits were not used at trial. The
Court will allow these costs; they are allowed under the relevant statutes.
 
Plaintiff moves to strike $156,158.54 in “other” costs that include, mock trial costs, jury
selection costs, mileage and parking costs, and travel and lodging costs. These
are not recoverable under the costs statutes; the Court will tax them. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is
GRANTED in part. 


 