  Case Number:  21STCP02223    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Hi Point Neighbors
  Association,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case Nos.:
 


 
21STCP02223;
23STCP04569




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 
Andrea Grano,
 
 
vs.
 
City of Los Angeles,
 
 


 
 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 
Hi Point M, LLC,
 
 


 
 
 
Real Party in
  Interest.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Trial Date: September
18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Petitions for Writ of
Mandate
Moving Party: Petitioners Hi
Point Neighbors’ Association and Andrea Grano
Responding Parties: Respondent, City of
Los Angeles; Real Party in Interest, Hi Point M, LLC  
 
T/R:     HI POINT’S SUPPLEMENTAL PETITION AND GRANO’S PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDATE ARE GRANTED.
 
PETITIONERS TO
NOTICE. 
 
            The Court considers the opening brief,
opposition briefs, and reply briefs. 
 
 
I.   
STATEMENT OF FACTS
 
A.  
Measure JJJ, Transit Oriented
Communities Affordable Housing Incentive Program
 
On November 8, 2016,
Los Angeles County voters adopted Measure JJJ. 
Measure JJJ sought to address the acute shortage of affordable housing
for unhoused and low-income persons, following the dissolution of the Community
Redevelopment Agency (which had provided funding for low- and moderate-income
housing), and considering the County’s outdated General Plan and zoning
designations, which failed to address affordable housing challenges. 
 
Measure JJJ contained
an incentive program to encourage the development of affordable housing.  It sought to spur development of affordable
housing in strategic locations, such as near major transit stops, where residents
are susceptible to displacement as property values and rents rise. And it created
the Transit Oriented Communities (“TOC”) Affordable Housing Incentive Program
to provide developers with incentives to develop affordable housing in
transit-oriented neighborhoods.  
 
On December 13, 2016,
the Los Angeles Municipal Code was amended to codify Measure JJJ and the TOC
Affordable Housing Incentive Program, in Municipal Code section 12.22 A.31.  This Code section provides incentives to
housing developments “located within a one-half mile radius [2,640 feet] of a
Major Transit Stop,” defined by Public Resources Code § 21064.3 as “[t]he
intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service
interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute
hours.”  (Pub. Resources Code, § 21064.3,
subd. (c).)  The incentives include residential
density increases and parking reductions. It directs, “[w]ithin 90 days of
enactment of this Ordinance, the Director of Planning [to] prepare TOC
Affordable Housing Incentive Program Guidelines (“TOC Guidelines”) that provide
the eligibility standards, incentives, and other necessary components of this
TOC Incentive Program described herein.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
On May 25, 2017, the
Los Angeles City Planning Commission (“CPC”) adopted TOC Guidelines.  The TOC Guidelines specify that only
affordable housing developments located within a one-half mile radius of a
“major transit stop” qualify for the incentives.  They establish a “Tier” system, which
provides a ranking (Tier 1-4) to each eligible affordable housing based on its
proximity to a “major transit stop.”  Pertinent
to the matter before the Court, the TOC Guidelines provide that affordable
housing developments will be ranked as “Tier 3” where (a) the development is
located within 750 feet of an intersection of a Regular Bus and Rapid Bus Line;
or (b) the development is located within 1,500 feet of an intersection of two
Rapid Bus lines.  The TOC Guidelines
define a “Rapid Bus” as “a higher-quality bus service that may include
dedicated bus lanes, branded vehicles and stations, high frequency, limited
stops at major intersections, intelligent transportation systems, and possible
off-board fare collection and/or all door boarding.  It includes Metro Bus Rapid Transit line,
Metro Rapid 700 lines, Metro Orange and Silver Lines, Big Blue Rapid lines, and
the Rapid 6 Culver City.  
 
The TOC Guidelines state
that all eligible affordable housing developments will receive “Base Incentives,”
which are residential density increases (an increase in the number of dwelling
units permitted under the applicable zoning ordinance, and an increase in the
floor area ratio permitted under the applicable zoning ordinance), and parking
reductions (a decrease in the number of parking spaces required under the
applicable zoning ordinance).  The degree
of the reduction and/or increase permitted is determined by Tier ranking.  And the TOC Guidelines provide that eligible
affordable housing developments may be granted “[u]p to three Additional
Incentives,” including reductions in yards/setbacks, decreases in open space,
increases in maximum lot coverage, decreases in lot width, and increases in
development height.  
 
B.  
Project and Project Site
 
The proposed project at issue here concerns a rectangular-shaped
lot at 1447 South Hi Point Street in Los Angeles (“Project Site”), near the
intersection of Pico Boulevard and Fairfax Avenue.  The Project Site is approximately 8,839 square
feet and currently has a single-family residence.  The Project Site is in the Wilshire Community
Plan Area and is zoned [Q]R3-1-O, with a land use designation of “Medium
Residential.”  Under its current zoning,
building height is limited to 35 feet, articulation is required every 30 feet
for building facades exceeding 40 feet, and balconies above the first floor
which have a line of sight to adjacent homes are prohibited.  
 
The proposed Project would demolish the single-family home and
construct a five-story, 57-foot-high multi-family residential development above
one level of subterranean parking.  It
will contain 20 multi-family dwelling units: two one-bedroom units, ten
two-bedroom units, and eight three-bedroom units.  It would provide 24 parking spaces, 20
long-term bicycle parking spaces, and two short-term bicycle parking
spaces.  The building will encompass
approximately 20,093 square feet in total building area, with a floor area
ratio of approximately 3.78:1. 
 
The properties surrounding the Project Site generally are
commercial, single-family residences, and multi-family residential uses.  Properties abutting the Project Site to the
west are zoned [Q]R3-1-O and contain three- and four-story apartment
buildings.  Properties to the east of the
Project Site, across Hi Point Street, are also zoned [Q]R3-1-O and are
developed with one- to four- story single-family homes, condominiums, and small
lot buildings.  Properties to the north
of the Project Site are zoned [Q]R3-1-O and C4-1-O and include both
single-family and multi-family residential structures, as well as a McDonald’s
Drive-Thru restaurant and a commercial strip mall.  Properties to the south of the Project Site,
across Saturn Street, are zoned [Q]R3-1-O and R1R3-RG-O and include a mix of
single-family residences and multi-story apartment buildings.  
 
Public buses operate nearby on Pico Boulevard and Fairfax
Avenue.  
 
 
 
C.  
Administrative History and Approval
 
On February 27, 2020,
Hi Point M, LLC (“Real Party”) submitted a “Transit-Oriented Communities
Referral Form” to the Department of City Planning, which asked the Department
to determine whether the Project qualified for incentives under the TOC
Affordable Housing Incentive Program and, if so, under which “Tier” the Project
may be categorized.  On the same day, the
Department concluded that the Project qualified for incentives because the Project
was within a half-mile radius of a “Major Transit Stop.”  The Department noted, “Santa Monica [Big Blue
Bus] 7” and “[Rapid] 7” travel through the intersection [at Pico and Fairfax]
and have service intervals of less than 15 minutes.  The Department also noted that “Local Line
217” and “Rapid 780” travel through the intersection and have service intervals
of 14.4 minutes and 12.7 minutes, respectively. 
The Department concluded the Project qualified for “Tier 3”
categorization because it was (a) within 750 feet of an intersection of a
Regular Bus and Rapid Bus Line, or (b) within 1,500 feet of an intersection of
two Rapid Bus lines.  
 
On May 24, 2020, Real
Party submitted a “Department of City Planning Application” requesting approval
of the Project and the issuance of incentives under the TOC Affordable Housing
Incentive Program.  Real Party sought:
(a) 70% Density Bonus; (b) 50% Floor Area Ratio increase, (c) Parking reduction
to .5 spots per unit; (d) 22 feet height increase; (e) 25% open space
reduction; and (f) 30% side yard setback reduction.  
 
On December 30, 2020,
the Director of the Department of City Planning approved the application.  The Director determined the Project is in a
“Tier 3” Incentive Area and approved these “Base Incentives:” (a) a density
increase of 70 percent, which equates to a maximum density of 21 residential
dwelling units; (b) a maximum floor area ratio of 4.5 to 1, representing a 50
percent increase in the floor area ratio of the underlying residential zone;
and (c) .5 automobile parking spaces per unit. 
The Director also approved these “Additional Incentives:” (a) a 30
percent reduction in the required width of two side yards to provide a minimum setback
of five feet eight inches in lieu of the minimum eight feet; (b) an increase of
22 feet in building height, equal to a maximum building height of 57 feet, with
limited additional height permitted for roof structures, stairwells, elevator
shafts, etc. as permitted by the Los Aneles Municipal Code; and (c) a maximum
reduction of 25 percent in the required amount of open space.  And the Director concluded that the Project
was exempt from CEQA pursuant to the “Class 32” Categorical Exemption.  
 
On January 13, 2021, nearby
residents filed a total of five appeals from the Director’s approval of the Project.  The residents’ appeals challenged: (a) The
Director’s conclusion the Project is located in a “Tier 3” TOC Affordable
Housing Incentive Area; (b) The Director’s conclusion the Project is exempt
from CEQA pursuant to the “Class 32” Categorical Exemption, because the Project
will have significant impacts on noise and traffic conditions; (c) whether the
Project complies with the Qualified “Q” Conditions of the Project Site’s [Q]R3-1-O
zoning; and (d) whether the height of the Project is incompatible with the
surrounding neighborhood and will result in loss of sunlight, properly values,
and community character.  
 
In response to these
appeals the Department of City Planning drafted an “Appeals Recommendation
Report”, which recommended that the appeals be denied.  The Report concluded that: (a) While the
Project Site may not be located within 750 feet from a Major Transit Stop, “the
project [remains] qualified for Tier 3 TOC status by proximity to a Major
Transit Stop involving the intersection of two or more rapid bus routes located
within 1,500 feet of the subject property” (rapid bus routes, Santa Monica Big
Blue Bus Rapid 7 Line and Metro Rapid Line 780); (b) The Project is exempt from
CEQA as it satisfied the five requirements applicable to the “Class 32” Categorical
Exemption; (c) the Project is in compliance with the Qualified “Q” Condition;
and (d) the Project’s height is not incompatible with the surrounding
neighborhood.  
 
On April 8, 2021, the
CPC adopted the Department of City Planning’s recommendation and denied the
appeals.  
 
On April 13, 2021, two
residents filed a CEQA appeal of the “Class 32” Categorical Exemption finding. On
August 31, 2021, the Planning and Land Use Management (“PLUM”) Committee,
following a hearing, recommended the City Council deny the residents’
appeal.  On September 15, 2021, the City
Council adopted the PLUM Committee’s recommendation and denied the CEQA appeal.  
 
On July 12, 2021, Hi
Point Neighbors’ Association (“Hi Point”) filed a Verified Petition for Writ of
Mandate against City of Los Angeles. On March 9, 2023, the Court granted the
petition in part and denied it in part. 
The Court denied the petition with respect to the First and Third Causes
of Action and granted with respect to the Second Cause of Action.  On May 25, 2023, the Court issued a Writ
ordering Respondent to set aside its Tier 3 TOC approval.  
 
On August 24, 2023,
the CPC held a hearing on the action to set aside the approval, during which Real
Party requested a continuation to consider additional evidence for Tier 3
incentives.  The CPC granted the request
and allowed for rehearing and reconsideration. 
On September 28, 2023, the CPC reheard and redecided the Appeals,
ultimately setting aside the approval of the Planning Case and reapproving it,
while also denying the Appeals and determining the Project was exempt from CEQA.
 
 
Notice of these
hearings was sent to the original appellants, the applicant, and their
representatives, excluding adjacent property owners and Petitioner Grano, who
lived near the Project site.  On October
17, 2023, the CPC issued a letter of determination, and on November 1, 2023,
Petitioner Grano filed a CEQA Appeal, which was later rejected by the City.  Petitioner Grano objected to the City’s
refusal to accept her appeal in a letter dated November 21, 2023.  
 
II.   
THE PETITIONS AT ISSUE HERE
 
On October 25, 2023, Hi
Point filed a Supplemental Petition for Writ of Mandate. Petitioner Andrea
Grano filed a Petition for Writ of Mandate on December 20, 2023.  These cases were related, and the parties
agreed to combined briefing and trial.  Hi
Point’s Verified Supplemental Petition for Writ of Mandate alleges: (1) Action
Without or in Excess of Authority; and (2) Violation of Local Zoning. Grano’s
Petition alleges (1) violation of CEQA for failure to allow appeal to elected
administrative body and improper approval of Class 32 Categorical Exemption,
and (2) Violation of Local Zoning. The Court addresses both petitions in this
ruling.
 
III.   
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Petitioners’ Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivisions (a), (b), (c) and (h).  
 
Respondent’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED,
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, subdivisions (a) and (b).  
 
Petitioners’
Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice is additionally GRANTED, pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452, subdivisions (c).  
 
IV.   
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Petitioners seek to
vacate and void the CPC’s re-hearing and re-approval of the Project on the
grounds that it acted beyond its jurisdiction and violated local zoning
provisions.  
 
Where a party alleges
that the Commission has acted beyond its statutory jurisdiction, it may
challenge the agency’s order or decision in an action for administrative
mandamus under Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5.  Security National Guaranty, Inc. v.
California Coastal Com. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 402, 414.)  “The standard of review in administrative
mandate proceedings is well-settled: whether the agency acted without or in
excess of jurisdiction, whether there was a fair hearing, and whether there was
a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion occurs when the agency did not proceed in the manner required
by law, its order or decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings
are not supported by the evidence.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)”  (Hubbard
v. California Coastal Com. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 119, 135.)  The court reviews “the administrative record
to determine whether the Agency’s findings are supported by substantial
evidence.  (Id.)  
 
“When the
determination of an administrative agency’s jurisdiction involves a question of
statutory interpretation, ‘the issue of whether the agency proceeded in excess
of its jurisdiction is a question of law.’ … ‘[A] court does not ... defer to
an agency’s view when deciding whether a regulation lies within the scope of
the authority delegated by the Legislature.’” 
(Security National Guaranty, Inc., supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at
414.)  “The rules of statutory
construction, which are equally applicable to administrative regulations, are
also well-settled.  The fundamental rule
is to ascertain the Legislature’s intent in order to give effect to the purpose
of the law.”  (Hubbard v. California
Coastal Com. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 119, 135.)  When interpreting a statute, the words should
be given their ordinary meaning without rendering any part of the language
unnecessary.  (Id.)  The interpretation must consider the context,
purpose, and intent of the legislature and aim for a practical, common-sense
understanding that avoids absurd outcomes.  (Id.) 
The “interpretation should be practical, not technical, and should also
result in wise policy, not mischief or absurdity.”  (Id.) 
Statutes should be interpreted within the broader legal framework to
maintain harmony.  (Id.)  If the statutory language is clear, it should
not be altered.  (Id. at
136.)  “If, however, there is more than one
reasonable interpretation of a statute, then it is ambiguous.”  (Id.) 
In such a case, the court may consider secondary factors like
legislative history, public policy, and the broader circumstances surrounding
the statute’s enactment to determine its meaning.  (Id.) 
 
V.   
ANALYSIS
 
A.  
The CPC Exceeded Its Jurisdiction in
Reapproving the Case
 
Petitioners argue
that the CPC exceeded its jurisdiction by rehearing and reapproving the
Planning Case after it had denied the appeals in 2021.  According to Petitioners, once the CPC has
exercised its authority on an appeal, it cannot rehear the same matter without
explicit authorization from the charter or ordinance.  Charter Section 245, City Council Veto of
Board Actions states that actions taken by boards of commissioners become final
if the City Council does not act within five meeting days after the board’s
action, unless the Council votes by a two-thirds majority to review or waive
review of the action.  If the Council
decides to review the action, it can veto the board’s decision within 21
calendar days by a two-thirds vote; otherwise, the board's action becomes
final.  
 
The CPC, as a body of
special and limited jurisdiction, possesses only the authority explicitly
granted by the City Charter or municipal ordinances.  (Heap v. City of Los Angeles (1936) 6
Cal.2d 405, 407.)  Petitioners rely on Heap
to argue that an administrative body like the CPC cannot reconsider a decision
once it has been finalized unless there is explicit statutory or charter
authority to do so.  (Heap, supra,
6 Cal.2d at 407.)  There, the court ruled
that the Civil Service Commission could not rehear a case after making a final
decision because the relevant statute described the decision as “final and
conclusive.”  (Id.)  Based on Charter Section 245, it appears that
the April 13, 2021 determination denying Petitioners’ appeals was final.  The CPC did not vote to reconsider the item
at the same or the next meeting according to its Rules and Operating Procedures.
 Respondents do not dispute this.  The Court finds that the April 13, 2021
action was a final determination. 
 
The Writ issued in
this case required the City to set aside the prior approval of the TOC
Entitlement.  Petitioners argue that the
Writ did not direct the CPC to reconsider the matter or authorize it to reopen
and rehear the appeal.  Petitioners point
out that the Writ instructed the City to “set aside” the approval of the TOC
Entitlement and did not include any directive to remand the case for
reconsideration. Code of Civil Procedure § 1094.5 subdivision (e)-(f) allows
the court to remand a case for reconsideration if it finds that relevant
evidence, which could not have been produced earlier despite reasonable
diligence or was improperly excluded, should be considered.  If the court orders that a decision be set
aside, it also may direct that the case be reconsidered in light of the court's
opinion and judgment.  However, the court’s
judgment cannot limit or control the discretion legally vested in the
respondent agency.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
1094.5 subd. (e)-(f).)  
 
Respondents and Real
Party argue the CPC has inherent authority over TOC appeals, provided by LAMC
§12.22.A.25(g)(2), which allows the CPC to rehear and reconsider a matter
without requiring a new application.  They
contend that the Writ issued by the Court did not limit the CPC’s discretion or
jurisdiction.  In support of this
argument Real Party relies on Save Oxnard Shores v. California Coastal Com. (1986)
179 Cal.App.3d 140, 150; National Auto. & Cas. Ins. Co. v. Downey
(1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 586, 594; and Fascination, Inc. v. Hoover (1952) 39
Cal.2d 260, 268.  
 
These cases are
distinguishable. In Save Oxnard Shores, the Court of Appeal held that
the Coastal Commission’s decision to set aside its original approval pursuant
to the court’s alternative writ was valid.  (Save Oxnard Shores, supra, 179
Cal.App.3d at 150.)  There, the
petitioners filed a petition for writ of administrative mandamus, asking the
court to set aside and vacate the Commission’s certification of the City of
Oxnard’s Land Use Plan to allow residential construction in a coastal area
vulnerable to flooding and erosion.  (Id.
at 145-146.)  The trial court issued an
alternative writ of mandamus, giving the Commission a choice: set aside its
decision or appear in court to justify why it should not have to.  (Id. at 146.)  In response, the Commission chose to set aside
its decision that conditionally certified the LUP for Oxnard Shores.  (Id. at 147.)  An association representing property owners
intervened, arguing that setting aside the Commission’s decision would deprive
them of their property rights and constitute a “taking” without just
compensation.  (Id. at 146-147.)  The Court of Appeal held that the Commission
was within its rights to comply with the alternative writ by setting aside its
previous decision.  (Id. at
149.)  The court reasoned that the
Commission was allowed to comply with a judicial writ directing it to
reconsider its actions.  (Id. at
149-150.)  
 
Here, the Court’s
writ only directed the City to set aside the approval of the TOC entitlement;
it provided no explicit authorization for the CPC to rehear or reapprove the
project.  In addition, the Municipal Code
does not provide any mechanism for the CPC to rehear an appeal once it has been
finally decided, nor does it allow the CPC to reapprove a Planning Case after
setting aside its prior decision without explicit authorization.  Respondents argue that the Municipal Code does
not require a new application for a rehearing or the introduction of new
evidence, but they fail to point to any express statutory authority that would
allow the CPC to “change [its] determination made on the facts presented at a
full hearing [after] its decision ha[d] become final.”  (Save Oxnard Shores, supra, 179
Cal.App.3d at 149.)  
 
In National Automobile,
an insurance company filed a petition for a writ of mandate seeking to vacate a
suspension order issued by the Insurance Commissioner on the grounds that the
proceedings were conducted without jurisdiction.  (National Auto., supra, 98
Cal.App.2d at 589.)  The trial court held
in favor of the petitioner; the appellate court affirmed.  (Id. at 591.)  The Court of Appeal concluded that the
hearing was conducted without jurisdiction, and its findings and suspension
order were null and void.  (Id. at
593.)  The court remanded the case back
to the Insurance Commissioner for further proceedings, if any, in compliance
with the legal requirements as clarified by the court.  (Id.) 
The modification ensured that the matter was not entirely terminated but
left open the possibility of further action consistent with proper legal
procedures.  (Id.)
 
Here, the issue is
not the Insurance Commissioner’s failure to adhere to new procedural laws that
applied to an ongoing hearing, resulting in a loss of jurisdiction, it is
whether the CPC acted within its jurisdiction by rehearing and reapproving a
project after the Court ordered the original approval set aside. The question
is whether the CPC’s decision to rehear and reapprove the project was within
its jurisdiction, absent explicit authorization from the Court to take such
actions.  The Court finds that the CPC
lacked jurisdiction because the prior decision was final, the Court neither
remanded the case nor explicitly permitted a rehearing, and there is no
specific code or regulation that authorizes the CPC to rehear the matter after
the decision had become final.
 
In Fascination,
Inc. the trial court granted the plaintiff’s writ of mandate to compel city
officials to issue a license for an amusement business.  (Fascination, Inc., supra, 39
Cal.2d at 263.)  The Court of Appeal
reversed and remanded for further proceedings to determine whether a proper
hearing was afforded to the plaintiff, and whether the city officials had a
sound basis for their decision.  (Id. at
267.)  The court emphasized that in cases
involving administrative decisions, the appropriate course of action is often
to remand the matter to the agency for reconsideration rather than for the
court to substitute its judgment on the merits of the case.  (Id. at 268-269.) Again, unlike in Fascination,
Inc., the Court here did not give remand instructions or direct the CPC to
rehear the appeal.
 
Since there was a
final determination and the Court did not remand the case, any further
consideration of the requested Tier 3 Incentives required a new application to
the Director of Planning. The Court finds that the CPC lacked jurisdiction to
rehear and reapprove the case. The Court grants Petitioners’ first cause of
action for action.
 
B.  
There Was Not Substantial Evidence to
Support the CPC’s approval of Tier 3 Incentives 
 
Petitioners argue
that the CPC incorrectly determined that the TOC Guidelines do not require a
15-minute frequency of service for Rapid Bus lines.  They claim this interpretation was rejected by
the Court in the prior proceeding, which held that eligibility for the TOC
program requires proximity to a Major Transit Stop with a service interval of
15 minutes or less during peak periods. The Court ruled as follows:
 
Real Party in Interest argues the “Tier 3” category does not
contain a 15-minute service requirement. But an overarching eligibility
requirement for the TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Program is proximity to a
“Major Transit Stop,” which is defined as the intersection of two or more bus
lines “with a service interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and
afternoon peak commute periods.” (AR 6947.) While the definition of “Tier 3”
does not itself mention the 15-minute service interval requirement, this
requirement is located under the heading “Type of Major Transit Stop.” It
follows that the “Two Rapid Buses” which intersect must qualify for inclusion within
a “Major Transit Stop,” and must satisfy the 15-minute service interval requirement.
(Ibid.)
 
(Id.) The Court previously found that the Rapid Buses
which intersect at Fairfax Ave and Pico Blvd. are required to satisfy the
15-minute service interval requirement.  Respondents
and Real Party are collaterally estopped from re-litigating this issue.  
 
The CPC incorrectly interpreted and
applied the TOC Guidelines in approving the Tier 3 incentives.  The staff report prepared for the September
28, 2023 CPC hearing states: 
 
The Court did not cite any specific evidence that Rapid
Buses require 15 min. average peak headways but appeared to simply infer it based
on a subtitle in Chart 1 that says Distance to Major Transit Stop. So, to
summarize, the Department always intended for there to be a two-step process:
1) whether the site is located within 1 2 mile of a Major Transit Stop, and 2)
which Tier the site is located in depending on the distance from different
types of transit including Rapid buses.
 
This contradicts the
Court’s prior ruling. The Court’s finding was based on the eligibility
requirements in the TOC Guidelines.  By
disregarding this requirement and attempting to redefine the criteria for Major
Transit Stops and Tier 3 incentives, the CPC acted in a manner inconsistent
with the established TOC Guidelines and the Court’s prior decision.
 
            Petitioners also contend that the
CPC improperly considered evidence of transit service that postdates the
initial approval of the Planning Case. They say this is not permitted by the
TOC Guidelines because eligibility for incentives must be determined based on
the transit service available at the time of tier verification and application
acceptance.  TOC Guidelines, Section
III.2 provides: “Establishment of the appropriate Tier shall take place at the
time an application is accepted and the Tier is verified by the City.”  
 
The opposition does
not address whether the CPC’s consideration of the NextGen Memorandum was
improper.  
 
The Tier 3 incentives
were verified on February 27, 2020, when the City approved the Transit Oriented
Communities Referral Form.  The
application for the Planning Case was accepted on March 25, 2020.  The Director approved the Planning Case and
granted the Tier 3 Incentives on December 30, 2020.  The CPC, however, based its decision on a
March 25, 2021 NextGen Memorandum, which was issued after the relevant dates in
2020 when the application’s tier was verified and the Planning Case was
approved. 
 
The Court finds that
this is improper, because the NextGen Memorandum did not consider transit
service at the time of tier verification or the acceptance of the application.  The NextGen Memorandum was issued more than a
year after the City had accepted the Planning Case application and verified the
tier in the Referral Form, and nearly three months after the Director had
approved the Planning Case.  
 
            There was no substantial evidence to
support the CPC’s decision to reapprove the TOC Entitlement. Real Party relies
on the staff report, which references Exhibits D and E, to support the argument
that the Project qualifies for Tier 3 Incentives because the intersection of
Pico Blvd. and Fairfax Ave. is considered a Major Transit Stop under the TOC
Guidelines.  Exhibit D refers to the
verification by the Department of City Planning’s Development Services Center
for Affordable Housing, which confirmed on February 27, 2020, that the site
qualified for Tier 3 TOC incentives.  This verification was done within the 180-day
period before the application’s expiration on March 25, 2020.  The exhibit serves to establish that the TOC
Tier qualification was valid and verified within the required timeframe.  Exhibit E includes the transit schedule data
and supporting documents used to demonstrate that the bus routes at the
intersection of Pico Blvd. and Fairfax Ave. met the service interval
requirements necessary to qualify as a Major Transit Stop.  It includes the relevant transit schedules for
Big Blue Bus Route 7 and Metro Line 217, showing that their average service
intervals were within the 15-minute limit during peak hours.  But Exhibit E contains the March 25, 2021,
memorandum titled “Metro NextGen; Rapid Bus Definitions,” which explains how
the Metro Bus 217 was recognized as a replacement for the Metro 780 Rapid Line,
maintaining its status for purposes of TOC incentives.  Real Party includes only the portion of the
staff report that discusses these exhibits and does not address any further
evidence that the CPC relied on in making its determination.  As noted, it was improper for the CPC to rely
on the NextGen Memorandum, and there appears to be no further evidence to
support the CPC’s determination. 
 
The Court grants
Petitioners’ second cause of action for violation of local zoning, specifically
for violating the TOC guidelines. 
 
C.  
There Was No Violation of Petitioner
Grano’s Due Process Rights
 
Petitioners argue
that the City violated Petitioner Grano’s due process rights.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b); Cal.
Const., art. I, § 7.)  They assert that
due process requires notice reasonably calculated to inform interested parties
of the pending action and give them an opportunity to present objections.  Petitioners rely on Horn v. County of
Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, to argue that the City violated Petitioner
Grano’s due process rights by failing to provide reasonable notice of the
September 28, 2023, CPC hearing on the Project. 
Petitioners state that Grano, who owns and occupies a residence 75 feet
away from the project site, did not receive mailed notice of the hearing and
was unaware of it, denying her the opportunity to participate.  The Grano residence is accessed from Hi Point
Street and would be impacted by construction and operational traffic, along
with spillover street parking. The Grano residence includes a roof deck and
expansive west-facing windows which contribute substantially to the
desirability of the property.    Petitioners state that the Project Site was
not posted with notice, further limiting Grano’s ability to be informed.  
 
Petitioners also
argue that the TOC Program’s notice and appeal procedures are facially invalid
because they systematically violate the due process rights of individuals with
substantial property interests.  They
claim these procedures fail to provide adequate notice and the right to appeal.  The program’s current procedures only notify
and allow appeals from owners or tenants of properties directly abutting,
across the street, or sharing a common corner with the subject property.  Petitioners argue that this is unreasonably
narrow, and the exclusion of other affected property owners, like Petitioner
Grano and similarly situated individuals, creates a “total and fatal conflict”
with constitutional due process requirements, as set forth in Tobe v. City
of Santa Ana (1995) 9 Cal.4th 1069, 1084.
 
In opposition, Real
Party argues that Petitioner Grano received the process due to a non-abutting
property owner under the LAMC.  The
procedures used by the CPC to rehear the TOC appeal were the same as those used
for the original appeal, and Grano did not receive notice because she was
neither an abutting property owner nor on the interested parties list.  The LAMC in effect in 2023 did not require
posting or notice to non-abutting owners for an appeal hearing.  Real Party contends that Petitioners are not
entitled to their preferred procedures but rather to the procedures prescribed
by the City’s codes, asserting that the amount of process due is “flexible,” and
depends on the nature of the competing interests, including administrative
burden.  (Horn, supra, 24
Cal.3d at 617-618.)  Real Party asserts
that Horn found a lack of direct mail notice to an adjacent property
owner inadequate under its specific facts and does not support Petitioners’
broader claim that notice procedures are inherently inadequate without site
posting or direct notice to all owners in the vicinity.  
 
As to the notice
provisions of LAMC §12.22.A.25(g), Real Party asserts that Petitioners have not
met the high burden of proving these provisions are in “total and fatal
conflict” with due process principles.  It
contends that Petitioners fail to demonstrate that a TOC approval requires the
same level of notice as is necessary for adjacent owners in cases involving
subdivisions or conditional use permits.  
 
In Horn, the
California Supreme Court held that the approval of a tentative subdivision map
by a county is an “adjudicatory” function, which requires both prior notice and
an opportunity to be heard for those whose property interests may be
significantly affected.  (Horn, supra,
24 Cal.3d at 610.)  There, the
plaintiff was a purchaser of a lot adjacent to the proposed subdivision.  (Id.) 
The Supreme Court found that the county’s existing procedures for public
notice of environmental decisions were constitutionally inadequate to inform
concerned landowners of governmental actions affecting their property interests.
 (Id. at 610-611.)  The notice procedures required the posting of
environmental documents, such as the “negative declaration,” in three different
county offices.  Additionally, interested
citizens could request to receive notices by mail regarding all environmental
matters pending before county agencies.  (Id. at 617.)  However, these procedures did not mandate
formal public meetings or hearings unless the environmental significance of a
particular project warranted it.  (Id.
at 617-618.)  The Court found these
procedures inadequate because they placed the burden on concerned individuals
to actively seek out information about potential projects that might affect
their property.  (Id.)  The Court noted that relying solely on the
posting of documents in public offices and mailing notices to those who
specifically requested them was insufficient to meet due process standards when
fundamental property interests were at stake.  (Id.) 
The Court rejected the argument that the plaintiff lacked standing to
assert these issues because he purchased the subject property after the
planning department’s initial approval of the map.  (Id. at 615-616.)  It reasoned that since the approval process
was not yet final when the plaintiff acquired the property, and no prior notice
or hearing had been given to any affected landowner, the plaintiff's rights
were still at issue.  (Id. at
617-618.)  
 
            The Court finds that the notice and
appeal procedures of the TOC Program, set forth in LAMC §12.22.A.25(g), satisfy
constitutional due process requirements.  Horn is distinguishable from the case
at hand. Horn required a higher level of due process, including notice
and hearing, because the map directly impacted the property rights of adjacent
landowners. Here, the TOC Program involves the approval of incentives based on
fixed standards and objective criteria, making it more akin to ministerial
actions. These do not have the same level of due process since they involve
less discretionary decision-making and have a more limited impact on individual
property rights.  The scope of impact in Horn
also was broader because the plaintiff there, as an adjacent property owner,
faced significant changes to the use and enjoyment of their property. The TOC
Program’s approval process is designed to affect only the properties
immediately adjacent to the project site, providing notice specifically to
abutting property owners who are most likely to be directly impacted.  
 
Petitioner Grano did
not receive notice because she was not an abutting property owner, and the LAMC
does not require notice to non-abutting owners for TOC decisions.  The Court finds that the broader notice
requirements in Horn are not necessary for the more limited impacts of TOC
approvals.  
 
Petitioners fail to
respond to Real Party’s statute of limitations argument.  It appears that any facial challenge to the
procedural provisions of LAMC §12.22.A.25(g) or the TOC Program authority at
LAMC §12.22.A.31(e) should have been brought within 90 days or three years of
being adopted, pursuant to Government Code §65009 and Civil Procedure Code
§338(a).  
 
            The City did not violate Petitioner
Grano’s due process rights.
 
D.  
The City Improperly Refused Grano’s
Appeal
 
Petitioners argue
that the City violated CEQA and the LAMC by refusing to accept Petitioner
Grano’s CEQA appeal of the Exemption Determination to the City Council.  Under Public Resources Code § 21151,
subdivision (c), when a non-elected decision-making body determines that a
project is not subject to CEQA, that determination may be appealed to the
agency’s elected decision-making body.  Former
LAMC Section 11.5.13 provides that such determinations can be appealed to the
City Council, provided that all administrative appeals have been exhausted, and
the appeal is filed within 15 days of the project approval becoming final.  Here, the CPC determined on October 17, 2023,
that the Project was exempt under the Class 32 Categorical Exemption.  Petitioner Grano filed a timely CEQA appeal,
which the City initially accepted but later rejected on the grounds that there
was no authority for a second appeal of the exemption determination for the
Project.  
 
            In opposition, Real Party contends
that LAMC §11.5.13, which outlines CEQA appeal procedures, is consistent with
Public Resources Code §§ 21151(c) and 21155.2(b)(6), which implement CEQA
requirements without expanding appeal rights beyond what CEQA mandates.  Real Party argues that the intent of Public
Resources Code § 21151(c) is to ensure that an elected decision-making body has
“ultimate responsibility” for a project’s CEQA analysis.  CEQA achieves this by allowing appeals of CEQA
determinations made by a “nonelected decision-making body” to the agency’s
elected decision-making body.  (Vendanta
Society of S. California v. California Quartett (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 517,
526.)  Since the elected decision-making
body already had reviewed the project’s CEQA analysis, and the project had not
changed since that review, Real Party says it would be redundant for the
elected body to reconsider the same CEQA appeal.  Additionally, Real Party argues that any
facial challenge to LAMC §11.5.13 for violating CEQA or Public Resources Code
§21151 is barred by the statute of limitations of 90 days under Government Code
§65009, and three years under Code of Civil Procedure §338(a), since the
ordinance was adopted in 2019.  
 
The Court finds that
the City improperly refused Petitioner Grano’s CEQA appeal of the Exemption
Determination to the City Council.  Petitioner
Grano filed a timely CEQA appeal following the CPC’s determination that the
Project was exempt under the Class 32 Categorical Exemption.  The Court finds that the City should have
accepted the appeal pursuant to Public Resources Code §21151(c) and Former LAMC
§11.5.13.
 
Respondent argues
that Grano is barred from relitigating the legality of the Project’s CEQA
analysis. The Court finds that Grano is not estopped from raising arguments
based on new information relating to compliance with zoning regulations.  The NextGen memo and timetables from 2023
were not part of the City’s original justification for its Tier 3
determination, constituting new information that may be challenged in a CEQA
appeal.  Petitioners show that Grano’s
appeal provided new arguments concerning noncompliance with the “Q” Condition
open space standards. The appeal also raises a new issue regarding the City’s
lack of authority to approve the Project under applicable zoning ordinances,
which was not adjudicated in the prior action.  
 
The City improperly
refused to process the appeal. The Court finds for Petitioner on Grano’s first
cause of action on this separate ground.
 
E.  
The Class 32 Categorical Exemption
Analysis Already Has Been Upheld
 
Petitioners argue
that the Project does not qualify for the Class 32 Categorical Exemption under CEQA
because it fails to meet all applicable zoning regulations, and the City did
not provide substantial evidence to support its determination.  Under CEQA, the lead agency has the burden of
proving a project falls within a categorical exemption, and this determination
must be supported by substantial evidence.  (Citizens for Envtl. Responsibility v.
State ex rel. 14th Dist. Agric. Ass’n (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 555, 568.)  First, Petitioners contend that the Project
is not eligible for Tier 3 Incentives because the City improperly relied on
evidence that was created after the tier verification and even after project
approval. Second, Petitioners argue that the City failed to provide substantial
evidence showing that the Project complies with the “Q” Conditions for open
space.  The "Q" Conditions
require a minimum of 100 square feet of usable open space per dwelling unit,
with specific criteria for private and common open spaces, including dimensions
and landscaping requirements.  Petitioners
argue that the Project provides only 1,162.5 square feet of qualifying open
space, well below the required 1,500 square feet, and fails to meet the minimum
50-percent landscaping requirement for common areas.  
 
In opposition, Respondents
argue that the Class 32 CEQA analysis for the Project already has been upheld
by the Court in the previous petition filed by Hi Point, with the Court’s
ruling on March 9, 2023, affirming the legality of the Project’s CEQA analysis.
 Since Hi Point did not appeal this
decision, Respondents assert that it is barred from challenging the same issue
again.  (Hernandez v. City of Pomona
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 501, 511-512).  Respondents
maintain that there has been no change in the Project’s intensity or density
between the initial ruling and the subsequent reapproval of the TOC incentives
by the CPC.  Additionally, Respondents
assert that the current administrative record contains substantial evidence
supporting the Project’s Tier 3 TOC incentives, as detailed in the Real Party’s
Opposition Brief, which the City has joined.  They also argue that Petitioners’ arguments
regarding the "Q" conditions were already considered and rejected in
the Court's March 9, 2023 ruling.  
 
The Class 32
Categorical Exemption analysis under Guidelines section 15332, subdivision (a) was
addressed in the Court’s March 9, 2023 ruling. 
The Court upheld the Class 32 Categorical Exemption under CEQA; Petitioner
Hi Point did not appeal that ruling.  Hi
Point is barred by res judicata from relitigating the legality of the Project’s
CEQA analysis.  Petitioners do not argue that
there has been a change in the Project’s intensity or density between the Court’s
ruling in March 2023 and the subsequent reapproval of the TOC incentives by the
CPC.  Given this lack of evidence, the
Court finds there is no change.  Petitioner
Hi Point may not relitigate this issue.[1]


