  Case Number:  18SMCV00399    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
 RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


18SMCV00399




MOTION


Motion to Compel Further Responses to Deposition Questions 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant John Canning




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Michael A. Vaughan



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute between two long-term friends and
business associates, Plaintiff Michael A. Vaughan (“Vaughan”) and Defendant and
Cross-Complainant John Canning (“Canning.”) 
Vaughan is a public insurance adjuster who works out of his Malibu
home.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶
6.)  Vaughan and Canning have been
friends for over 20 years.  (FAC ¶
8.)  To help Canning obtain a source of
income, Vaughan taught Canning the business of public insurance adjusting.  (FAC ¶ 10.) 
Vaughan also allowed Canning to use Vaughan’s office and equipment for
free and occasionally allowed Canning to work on Vaughan’s files to earn extra
money.  (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
On two incidents – on or about July 13, 2018 and October 24, 2018,
Vaughan and Canning became engaged in heated political debates, which led to a
physical altercation on October 24, 2018. 
(FAC ¶¶ 14-19.)
 
Following the October 24 altercation, Canning called Vaughan’s
longtime attorney, Steven White (“White”) and informed White of Canning’s
intent to sue Vaughan “to get enough money to retire.”  (FAC ¶ 20.)
 
Canning has brought a cross-complaint against White for taking what
Canning told White in that phone call and using it in his representation of
Vaughan in filing suit against Canning. 
(See Generally First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”).)  Canning contends that White dually
represented both Canning and Vaughan, and White’s subsequent representation of
Vaughan against Canning was improper.  
 
During White’s November 2, 2023 deposition, White refused to answer
the following questions on the basis of attorney-client privilege:
 
1.      Prior
to receiving this phone call from Mr. Canning, had Vaughan already retained you
as his attorney for purposes of this [October 2018] incident?
 
2.      Mr.
White, prior to receiving the phone call from Mr. Canning on October 24, 2018,
had you already spoken to Vaughan about the incident?
 
3.      Why
did you withdraw from representing Mr. Vaughan?
 
4.      Did
you recommend to Mr. Vaughan that he find a new attorney?
 
Canning now moves to compel answers to those questions on the basis
that (1) the first two questions, concerning the timing of Vaughan’s
communications with White do not implicate the attorney-client privilege and
(2) there is no attorney-client privilege as against Canning due to the dual
representation; and (3) the attorney-client privilege was impliedly waived by
the dual representation.
 
Vaughan opposes the motion; Plaintiff replies to the opposition.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
1.     
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate
responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)
[motion to compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection”].)  “A trial
court's determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)  Further, “[a] deposition examination of the
witness by all counsel, other than the witness' counsel of record, shall be
limited to seven hours of total testimony. The court shall allow additional
time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine
the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance
impedes or delays the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).)
 
2.      ATTORNEY-CLIENT
PRIVILEGE
 
Per Evidence Code section 954, “[t]he client, whether or not a party,
has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing,
a confidential communication between client and lawyer if the privilege is
claimed by:  (a) The holder of the
privilege; (b) A person who is authorized to claim the privilege by the holder
of the privilege; or (c) The person who was the lawyer at the time of the
confidential communication, but such person may not claim the privilege if
there is no holder of the privilege in existence or if he is otherwise
instructed by a person authorized to permit disclosure.”  (Evid. Code, § 954.)  And “while attorney-client communications are
presumed to be confidential, the party claiming the attorney-client privilege
as a bar to disclosure has the burden of showing that the communication sought
to be suppressed falls within the parameters of the privilege.”  (Scripps Health v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 [cleaned up].)
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.     
TIMELINESS
OF MOTION 
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses to deposition questions must “be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition[.]” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (b).) 

 
Here, the notice of completion of the record of deposition was
provided electronically by the court reporter on November 13, 2023.  Sixty-days later is January 12, 2024, plus two
days for electronic service is January 14, which is a Sunday and January 15 was
a Court holiday, making the motion due on or before January 16, 2024.
 
Canning filed the motion on the date set forth above.  Neither Vaughan nor White has objected to the
timeliness of the motion.  
 
2.     
MEET AND
CONFER
 
            A motion to compel must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.480, subdivision (b).  A
meet and confer declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed ‘to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity of a formal order.  . . . 
This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the
unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion of
informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.”  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1434-1435, citations omitted
[cleaned  up].)  To comply, “A reasonable and good-faith
attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with
[opposing counsel].  Rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.”  (Townsend, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p.
1439; see also Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294 [to
satisfy the attempt at informal resolution required in section 2016.040
opposing parties must do more than try to persuade each other of their errors].)  In short, the Discovery Act “requires that
there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.”  (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.)
 
            To that end, trial courts are
entrusted with discretion and judgment to determine the necessary effort
required to satisfy the requirement of an informal resolution. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433.)  In determining if parties have satisfied Section
2016.040, judges may consider “the history of the litigation, the nature of the
interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of
discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be
relevant.” (Id. at pp. 431-432 [holding that the trial court was correct
in determining that sending a letter with oppositions was an insufficient
attempt at an informal resolution].)  In
sum, meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters to each
other stating each party’s respective positions. 
 
            Here, as set forth in the
Declaration Whitney T. Smith, Esq. (“Smith”), counsel for Canning, Canning asserts
he has engaged in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of the issues presented in the motion by sending a detailed letter to counsel
for White on January 11, 2024 and attempting unsuccessfully to reach White’s
counsel thereafter, neither of which White’s counsel had responded to prior to
the motion’s filing.  
 
Although the Court agrees that Canning’s meet and confer efforts to be
wanting, those efforts do meet the minimal requirements under the Discovery Act.
            
3.     
SEPARATE
STATEMENT 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Canning has filed a separate
statement related to the motion which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
Analysis
            
1.     
FIRST TWO REQUESTS – IMPLICATION OF
ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE
 
            Canning’s first argument is that the
first two questions regarding the timing of Vaughan’s communications with White
regarding the October incident and whether those communications occurred before
or after Canning’s communications with Vaughan about the incident do not
implicate the attorney-client privilege.
 
            The attorney-client privilege
protects “a confidential communication between client and lawyer[.]”  (Evid. Code, § 954.)
 
            However, the date on which an
attorney-client communication took place is not itself a matter communicated by
client to attorney in the course of their professional relationship, and is
therefore not a protected matter within the attorney-client privilege.  (Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220; State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v.
Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625, 640, as modified (May 1, 1997)
[“Nor does the attorney-client privilege protect independent facts related to a
communication; that a communication took place, and the time, date and
participants in the communication.”]
 
            Therefore, the timing of Vaughan’s
communications with White concerning the October incident, and whether
Vaughan’s communications with White about that incident occurred before or
after Canning’s communications with White are not protected by the
attorney-client privilege.
 
2.     
DUAL REPRESENTATION
 
With regard to the remaining questions, Canning argues that White’s
dual representation of Canning and Vaughan invalidates the privilege.
 
Where two or more clients have retained or
consulted a lawyer upon a matter of common interest, none of
them, nor the successor in interest of any of them, may claim a privilege under
this article as to a communication made in the course of that relationship when
such communication is offered in a civil proceeding between one of such clients
(or his successor in interest) and another of such clients (or his successor in
interest).
 
(Evid.,
§ 962, emphasis added.)
 
            For example, in Wortham & Van
Liew v. Superior Court (Clubb) (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 927, 932-933, the
attorney-client privilege could not be used to shield the partnership’s
attorney communications regarding the partnership from one of the partners.
 
            Here, the excerpts from White’s
deposition testimony demonstrate that an estimated “six times a year” Canning
would solicit free legal advice from White, which typically constituted a
45-second conversation, which White obliged as a marketing tactic, in hopes that
it would result in additional clients for White.  (Ex. A to Smith Decl. at pp. 24:24-25:13.)
 
            The excerpts from Canning’s
deposition testimony demonstrates that two to three times per month, Vaughan
would instruct Canning to ask White, in White’s capacity as Vaughan’s attorney,
a question regarding one of Vaughan’s cases. 
(Ex. A to Porneida Decl. at p. 17:1-19.) 
 
            Thus, it appears that White, who was
Vaughan’s attorney, would generally communicate with Canning 24-36 times per
year regarding matters for Vaughan’s clients, and 6 times per year, Canning
would ask White advice on personal matters or matters for Canning’s own
clients, which White provided Canning for free, in short conversations lasting
approximately forty-five seconds, in the hopes that it would lead to additional
clients for White.
 
Moreover, when Canning attempted to communicate with White regarding
the altercation between Canning and Vaughan, White repeatedly informed Canning
that White is Vaughan’s attorney and Canning should not divulge confidential
information to White concerning the incident. 
(Ex. A to Smith Decl. at pp. 53:25-60:22.)  White testified that he allowed Canning
proceed to vent, under the impression that Canning intended to communicate his
intent to sue Vaughan to White as Vaughan’s agent.  (Id. at pp. 59:6-60:4.)
 
            As such, to the extent Canning
communicated with White on Vaughan’s behalf regarding Vaughan’s clients, such
communications would constitute “a matter of common interest” such that those
communications between Canning and White would not be attorney-client privileged
from Vaughan.  However, it cannot be said
that Vaughan’s communications with White concerning the altercation between
Vaughan and Canning are “a matter of common interest” between Canning and
Vaughan.  To the contrary, Vaughan’s and
Canning’s interests are diametrically opposed on this issue.
 
            Therefore, even if White did “represent”
Canning on those few personal questions White answered for Canning for free in
passing, there is no evidence suggesting that White ever agreed to represent
Canning with respect to Canning’s altercation with Vaughan.  Moreover, White’s representation of Vaughan
with respect to Vaughan’s altercation with Canning is not “a matter of common
interest” such that the attorney-client privilege between Vaughan and White
dissolves as to Canning.
 
3.     
WAIVER
 
Canning next argues that the attorney-client privilege was impliedly
waived because it goes to the heart of the claim in controversy.  In support, Canning cites Merritt v. Superior
Court (Reserve Ins. Co.) (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d 721 (hereafter Merritt);
Mitchell v. Superior Court (Shell Oil Co.) (1984) 37 Cal.3d 591
(hereafter Mitchell); and Steiny & Co., Inc. v. California Elec.
Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285, 292 (hereafter Steiny).  
 
In Merritt, the court found plaintiff had waived the
attorney-client privilege by filing a lawsuit for bad faith denial of an
insurance claim that “placed in issue the decisions, conclusions and mental
state of his then attorneys, particularly as to their confusion and disability
allegedly caused by defendant’s conduct which precluded them from making a
settlement offer.”  (Merritt, supra,
9 Cal. App. 3d at p. 730.)  
 
But in Mitchell, the court held that the plaintiff had not
impliedly waived the attorney-client privilege with respect to discussions with
her attorneys regarding the harmful effects on her emotional state merely by
bringing a cause of action for emotional distress.  (Mitchell, supra, 37 Cal.3d at p.
609.)
 
And in Steiny, the court explained, “When a party
asserting a claim invokes privilege to withhold crucial evidence, the
policy favoring full disclosure of relevant evidence conflicts with the policy
underlying the privilege. Courts have resolved this conflict by holding that
the proponent of the claim must give up the privilege in order to pursue the
claim. Where privileged information goes to the heart of the claim, fundamental
fairness requires that it be disclosed for the litigation to proceed.”  (Steiny, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th
at p. 292, emphasis added.)
 
By contrast, here, Vaughan’s lawsuit against Canning regarding the
July and October altercations does not place in issue White’s mental
state.  Moreover, to the extent Canning’s
counter-suit does place White’s mental state in issue, that counter-suit would
not constitute an implied waiver by Vaughan. 

 
4.      RULINGS
 
a.       Questions
Nos. 1 & 2
 
            The Court grants Canning’s motion to
compel further responses to Questions 1 and 2, as information concerning the timing
of attorney-client conversations are not protected by the privilege.
 
b.      Questions
Nos. 3 and 4  
 
The reasons White withdrew his representation of Vaughan in this
matter and what recommendations White did or did not make to Vaughan concerning
legal representation are protected by the attorney-client privilege.  Finding no joint interest and no waiver by
Vaughan, the Court denies Canning’s motion to compel further responses to
Questions 3 and 4.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants Canning’s
motion to compel further responses to Questions 1 and 2, but denies Canning’s
motion to compel further responses to Questions 3 and 4.  
 
Canning shall provide notice
of the Court’s orders and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
DATED:
 March 13, 2024                                          ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 