 Case Number:  24BBCP00047    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00047

 
MP:     David Minkin & Jessica Peterson
(Petitioners)
RP:     United
Financial Casualty Company (Respondent)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Petitioners’ seeks a “Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award” pursuant to C.C.P. § 1285 as it relates to an uninsured
motorist arbitration. Respondent opposes the petition, arguing that no
arbitration award was ever made. Petitioners reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Any party to an arbitration award may petition the court to
confirm, correct, or vacate the award. (C.C.P. § 1285.) “If a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 1286.)
 
 
II.                
ANALYSIS

 
Facts 
 
The
California Insurance Code requires that claims involving uninsured/underinsured
motorists must be arbitrated before any cause of action under that claim begins
to accrue. (See Insurance Code § 11580.2(i)(1)(c) [“No cause of action shall
accrue to the insured under any policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant
to this section unless…[t]he insured has formally instituted arbitration
proceedings by notifying the insurer in writing sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested… within two years from the date of the accident.”].)
 
On
June 14, 2022, Petitioners sent Respondent a letter formally demanding
arbitration pursuant in accordance with their obligation under Insurance Code §
11580.2(i)(1)(c). (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) On November 22, 2022, Respondent sent Petitioners
a letter formally acknowledging the arbitration requirement. (Kim Decl.
¶ 5, Exh. C.)
 
On
April 19, 2024, the parties selected Judge Bryan F. Foster (Ret.) as the arbitrator
and set arbitration proceedings for December 5-6, 2024. (Kim Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
On
December 2, 2024, the parties reached a settlement prior to entering
arbitration. (Kim Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. 1; Long Decl. Exh. 2.) No release was
requested or signed. (Kim Decl. ¶ 15.) Petitioners’ counsel then reached out to the arbitrator and cancelled the
pending arbitration. (Long Exh. 3.)
 
On December 11, 2024, Petitioners filed the
instant petition. On December 17, 2024, Petitioners requested the arbitrator,
Judge Foster to make a post settlement arbitration determination that
Respondent be ordered to pay costs and prejudgment interest. (Kim Decl.
¶ 26, Exh. K.) On December 19,
2024, the arbitrator responded and deferred to the discretion of this Court to
declare the appropriate forum for the recovery of costs. (Id.)
 
Discussion 
 
C.C.P.
§ 1285.4 sets forth the requirements for a petition to confirm a binding
arbitration award. By statute, the petition must do all of the following: 
 
(1)   
set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of
the agreement to arbitrate unless petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement; 
 
(2)   
set forth the name(s) of the arbitrator(s); and 
 
(3)   
set forth or have attached a copy of the award and
written opinion of the arbitrator.
 
(C.C.P.
§ 1285.4(a)-(c).)
 
Here, arbitration is mandated by law, but Petitioners
cannot comply with the requirements of C.C.P. § 1285.4(c) because no
arbitration ever occurred. Both parties agree that the matter settled prior to
arbitration. It is undisputable that no arbitration took place, and no
arbitration award was ever made. As no arbitration award was ever made, there
is no award to confirm.  The financial
obligations between the parties is dictated by the settlement agreement entered
into prior to and in lieu of arbitration. 
Accordingly, the petition is defective and must be DENIED. 
 
 
To
clarify the prior petition filed with the Court. That previous petition granted
jurisdiction pursuant to Insurance Code § 11580.2(f)(1) only for the purpose of
discovery disputes. Once a dispute is
submitted to arbitration, it is the province of the arbitrator to make all
findings and rulings necessary for complete resolution of the dispute. (See Briggs
v. Resolution Remedies (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1400-1401.) As
such, any dispute here regarding costs and prejudgment interest is properly
resolved by the arbitrator. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
David Minkin & Jessica Peterson’s Petition
to Confirm Arbitration Award came on regularly for hearing on January 17, 2025,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:
 
THE PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD IS DENIED.  
 
RESPONDENT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
DATE:  January
17, 2025                               _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles