 Case Number:  24NNCV01150    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01150

 



MP:  


Christina
  Orsatti as Trustee of the Jean M. Nappi Trust (Defendant)




RP:  


Gulf
  Harbour Investments Corporation (Plaintiff) [No Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Gulf
Harbour Investments Corporation (Plaintiff) brings this action against Indymac
Bank, F.S.B. (Indymac), Christina Orsatti as Trustee of the Jean M. Nappi Trust
(Orsatti), and Firstkey Mortgage (Firstkey). 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that on December 6, 2006, Charles Nappi (Charles) received an interest
in the property at 431 Amherst Drive, Burbank, California (the Subject
Property) via Grant Deed. (Compl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff further alleges that on
November 15, 2006, Charles executed a Promissory Note (the Note) encumbering
the Subject Property (the Loan) from Indymac. (Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
alleges that Charles also delivered a Deed of Trust (the Deed) encumbering the
property to Indymac, which Indymac then recorded on December 4, 2006. (Compl. ¶
9.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that thereafter, it purchased the Loan and all interest in the Note and
Deed from Indymac. (Compl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff states that despite this
purchase, there remains a gap in the title for the Subject Property because
Indymac failed to record an Assignment of Deed to Plaintiff, and the entity is
now defunct. (Compl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that it is entitled to an
equitable assignment from Indymac to clear up any perceived break in the chain
of title. (Compl. ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint states causes of action for (1) Equitable Assignment of Lien (as
against all Defendants) and (2) Declaratory Relief (as against all Defendants).
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff amended its Complaint to replace named Defendant
Charles with Orsatti. 
 
Before
the Court is a demurrer to the Complaint brought by Orsatti. Orsatti first
demurs to the entirety of the Complaint on grounds that plaintiff lacks
standing to bring this action. Orsatti also demurs to each cause of action on
grounds that they (1) fail to state sufficient facts and (2) are fatally
uncertain. The Court notes that no Motion to Strike is briefed or presented in Orsatti’s
moving papers despite her reserving a hearing for a “Demurrer with Motion to
Strike”. 
 
Plaintiff
has not opposed the demurrer. A plaintiff’s failure to oppose the demurrer
can be treated as an implied abandonment of the challenged claims. (Herzberg
v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet
and confer requirements were met here. (Matejcek
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Judicial
Notice 
 
Orsatti requests Judicial
Notice be taken of the following documents:
 
1.     
Quitclaim Deed 11-28-2006 – Jeanne M. Nappi,
A married woman, wife of grantee conveying 431 Amherst Dr, Burbank, CA 91504 to
Charles C. Nappi, recorded it with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on
December 4, 2006, Instrument No. 20062680400. 
 
2.     
Deed of Trust with Future Advance Clause
11-24-2006 – Charles C. Nappi, A married man as his sole as separate property,
incurred a Deed of Trust as Trustor with Lender IndyMac Bank, F.S.B., as
Beneficiary, recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on December
4, 2006, Instrument No. 20062680401. 
 
3.     
Quitclaim Deed 02-05-2015 – granted by Jeanne
M. Nappi to Jeanne M. Nappi, as Trustee of the Jenna against 2166 Fitzgerald,
Commerce, CA to Aztec T.D. Service Co., as trustee, securing $240,000.00 owed
to First Choice Funding, the beneficiary, recorded in Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on October 8, 2019, Doc No. 20191061996. 
 
4.     
Deed of Trust With Absolute Assignment of
Rents 02-25-2020 – granted by Mirna Banos and Jose Vinicio Rodriguez as Joint
Tenants against 2166 Fitzgerald, Commerce, CA to First American Title Company.,
as trustee, securing $255,000.00 owed to Golden Empire Mortgage, Inc., the
beneficiary, recorded in Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on February 25,
2020, Doc No. 20200220727. 
 
5.     
Grant Deed 02-25-2020 – Mirna L. Banos
conveying 2166 Fitzgerald, Commerce, CA to Jose Vinicio Rodriguez and Mirna L.
Banos, husband and wife as Joint Tenants, recorded in Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on February 25, 2020, Doc No. 20200220726. 
 
The
Court notes that a party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence
Code section 452 or 453 must provide the court and each party with a copy of
the material. (CRC Rule 5.115.) The only exception to this rule is where the
matter to be noticed is already a part of the Court’s record, in which case the
requesting party must specify the portion of the record to be noticed. (Id.)
Here, Orsatti’s request is unaccompanied by the records to be noticed. Nor are
the records to be noticed a part of the Court’s record. Accordingly, Orsatti’s
request is DENIED. 
 
Demurrer
for Lack of Standing – Overruled 
 
The
Court first addresses Orsatti’s demurrer to the entire Complaint on grounds
that Plaintiff does not have standing to sue. (C.C.P. § 430.10(b).) Orsatti
argues:
 
Plaintiff is not the
originator of the promissory note and deed of trust at issue, has not produced
an assignment of the deed of trust, has not alleged possession of a promissory
note that contains an allonge or is endorsed in blank, and therefore has not
sufficiently alleged it has an equitable right to payments, debt or claims
against Amherst Drive or standing to sue for Equitable Assignment of Lien.
 
(Dem.
p. 7.) 
 
The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive. "In general terms, in order to
have standing, the plaintiff must be able to allege injury - that is, some
invasion of the plaintiff's legally protected interests.” (Angelucci v.
Century Supper Club 41 Cal.4th 160, 175 [internal quotation marks
omitted].) A demurrer lies for lack of standing when the defect appears on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Qualified
Patients Assn. v. City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 752.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has explicitly alleged that it purchased the Loan and all interests in
the Note and Deed from Indymac. (Compl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further alleges
that it, “…is the current holder and in possession of the original Note, the
current payee under the Note, and is duly authorized to enforce the terms of
the Note and Deed of Trust.” (Id.) As such, the Court finds Plaintiff
has sufficiently pled its standing to state its claim. The Complaint clearly
asserts that Plaintiff is the owner of the Note and seeks a declaration that
the Deed was assigned to it by virtue of purchase from Indymac. Further,
Plaintiff has adequately pled injury in the form of the gap in the chain of
title for the Subjects Property. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer on these grounds is OVERRULED. 
 
First
COA – Equitable Assignment of Lien – Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
As
concerns Plaintiff’s first cause of action is for “Equitable Assignment of
Lien”, the Court agrees with Orsatti that the cause of action is uncertain as
currently pled. To begin, the Court is unaware of a legally cognizable cause of
action for “Equitable Assignment of Lien”. While the concepts of “Equitable
Lien” and “Equitable Assignment” have basis in case law, no authority supports
Plaintiff’s specific cause of action here. Nor do the factual allegations in
the Complaint make clear whether a cause of action for Equitable Lien or
Equitable Assignment are being stated. 
 
Equitable
Assignment is a legal concept which has developed through case law to address
situations where the existence of an assignment is implied from the conduct of
the parties rather than established by express words of formal agreement. (First
Nat. Bank of Stockton v. Pomona Tile Mfg. Co. (1947) 82 Cal.App.2d
592, 606 [citation omitted].) Though not specifically provided for by statute,
courts have founds a variety of situations warrant finding that an assignment
was created in equity. (Id.) Despite this seemingly broad applicability
of equitable assignments, the Court is unpersuaded that such an assignment is
at issue here. 
 
In
Recorded Picture Co. v. Nelson Entertainment, Inc. (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 350 (Nelson), the Second District Court of Appeal observed
that, “The doctrine of equitable assignments is typically used to enforce an
attempted assignment of rights that is technically defective or to create a
right of subrogation.” 
 
Neither
case cited by Nelson concern situations where an actual assignment
existed but was not properly recorded. Kelly v. Kelly (1938) 11
Cal.2d 356 concerned the creation of an equitable assignment where an interest
in property had not yet shifted to an intended beneficiary under trust. (Id.)
The Kelly court found that, “[E]quity will uphold assignments, not valid
at law…which are vested, but relate to property to come into existence in the
future, and those which rest only in possibility…” (Id. at 364.) In the
Court’s estimation, Kelly did not contemplate the situation alleged
here. 
 
The
second case cited in Nelson, Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. v.
Miller (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1163, 1174 (Fidelity), is
similarly inapposite. Fidelity described equitable assignment as, “…a
creature of equity and applies to all cases where one party involuntarily pays
a debt for which another is primarily liable and which in equity and good
conscience should have been paid by the latter.” (Fidelity supra, 215
Cal.App.3d at 1174.) In other words, Fidelity observed that the concept
of equitable assignment was essentially akin to what is modernly referred to as
a right of subrogation. Fidelity simply does not provide guidance in the
instant case. 
 
In
short, none of the existing authority discussing Equitable Assignments indicate
that such a cause of action is applicable here. The same can be said of a cause
of action for Equitable Lien.
 
An
Equitable Lien, “…is a right to subject property not in the possession of the
lienor to the payment of a debt as a charge against that property…It may arise
from a contract which reveals an intent to charge particular property with a
debt or out of general considerations of right and justice as applied to the
relations of the parties and the circumstances of their dealings.” (County
of Los Angeles v. Construction Laborers Trust Funds for Southern California
Admin. Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 410, 415.) 
 
“It
has been judicially observed that equitable liens arising by contract are as
various as the contracts parties may make, and the question whether a lien has
been created under particular circumstances depends upon the facts of the
case…For example, where a lessor contracted to purchase insurance on behalf of
both the lessor and the lessee but purchased protection for itself only, and a
loss ensued for which the lessor was reimbursed, the lessee is entitled to an
equitable lien on the insurance proceeds.” (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 445, 454, citing Gordon v. J. C. Penney Co. (1970) 7 Cal.
App. 3d 280, 285.) 
 
Here,
the Court does not view Plaintiff’s allegations as pled support a cause of
action for Equitable Lien as against Orsatti. The cases discussing equitable
liens all concern situations where the party seeking to enforce the lien and
the party against whom it was to be enforced were in direct contract with
another. This is important because the intent of the parties to encumber the
property at issue is a crucial determination in whether to create an equitable
lien. (See In re Cedar Funding, Inc. (Bankr. N.D. Cal. 2009) 408
B.R. 299 [discussing California law].) Conversely, the assignment at issue in
this case has nothing to do with the intent of the initially contracting
parties to encumber the Subject Property. The dispute here is not whether the Subject
Property is encumbered under the original lien. Rather, the dispute is whether
Plaintiff is now the lawful holder of said lien. In the Court’s view, these
allegations are simply not the subject of an action for equitable lien. 
 
Upon
thorough search, the Court is unable to locate any case where an equitable
assignment or equitable lien was granted in favor of an assignee as the result
of a previous lienholder’s failure to record an assignment. This is not to say
that such causes of action are unavailable to Plaintiff, only that the first
cause of action is stated so ambiguously that determining the sufficiency of
its factual allegations is impossible. Further, by apparently combining a cause
of action for Equitable Assignment with that of an Equitable Lien, Plaintiff has
presented significant difficulty for Orsatti in responding.  
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. Leave to amend is granted in so far as the Court finds its possible
Plaintiff could amend the Complaint to state a more cognizable cause of action
for either Equitable Assignment or Equitable Lien. 
 
Second
COA - Declaratory Relief – Overruled 
 
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.)
 
Orsatti
argues that Plaintiff has not sufficiently stated a cause of action for
Declaratory Relief because they have not alleged an actual controversy. Orsatti
states the following: 
 
Given that Plaintiff is not
the originator of the promissory note and deed of trust at issue, has not
produced an assignment of the deed of trust, and has not alleged possession of
a promissory note that contains an allonge or is endorsed in blank, Plaintiff
has failed to show that there is an actual, present controversy that would
warrant declaratory relief.
 
(Dem.
p. 8.) 
 
The
Court finds Orsatti’s argument to be unpersuasive for reasons that mirror its
analysis as to Plaintiff’s standing. As stated above, Plaintiff has
specifically alleged that it is the holder of the Note and entitled to collect
upon it. Whether Plaintiff can produce the Note and subsequently show they are
entitled to a declaration proclaiming them to be the legal owner is a question
beyond the purview of a demurrer. On the face of the pleadings, Plaintiff has
demonstrated sufficient controversy as to the chain of title for the Subject
Property. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Christina
Orsatti as Trustee of the Jean M. Nappi Trust’s
Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on January 17,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER
TO THE ENTIRE COMPLAINT FOR LACK OF STANDING IS OVERRULED. 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED. 
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO APRIL 24, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
DEFENDANT
ORSATTI TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 