 Case Number:  23BBCV01852    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01852

 



MP:  


Victoria Abdo (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Mark Towhidlow
  (Defendant) [No Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Victoria
Abdo (Abdo) brings this action against Mark Towhidlow (Towhidlow). Abdo seeks
specific performance of a June 9, 2024 agreement for the sale of the real
property commonly known as 1751 Camino De Villas, Burbank, CA 91501 for
$1,150,000. (Compl. ¶ 7, 8-9.) Abdo alleges that Towhidlow refused to sell
despite Plaintiff depositing the funds into escrow.    (Compl. ¶¶ 8-9.) Abdo further alleges
that Towhidlow thereafter sent cancellation of escrow instructions. (Compl.
¶ 10.) 
 
On
September 13, 2023, Towhidlow filed a Cross-Complaint against Abdo, Dona T.
Abdo, Ramona Nazarimasihi, and High Vision Realty. The Cross-Complaint states a
cause of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (as against High Vision
Reality and Ramona Nazarimasihi) and (2) Fraud (as against all Cross-Defendants).

 
On
July 24, 2024, the Court sustained Abdo’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint with
leave to amend. (See Jul. 24 Minute Order.) It appears that Towhidlow never
filed an amended Cross-Complaint in accordance with his grant of leave. As
such, on September 5, 2024, the Court granted Abdo’s ex parte application to
have the Cross-Complaint dismissed and scheduled an Order to Show Cause (OSC)
re: Dismissal for failure to serve for November 11, 2024. (See Sep. 5 Minute
Order). 
 
On September
20, 2024, the Court granted the motion to be relieved filed by Towhidlow’s
counsel. Towhidlow had represented himself in this action since that date.  On November 11, 2025, the Court held a
hearing on the OSC re Dismissal. Towhidlow appeared at this hearing in pro per.
The Court advised Towhidlow that he must reserve the Cross-Complaint and
continued the OSC to be heard concurrently with this motion. 
 
Before
the Court is Abdo’s motion for terminating sanctions, seeking that Towhidlow’s
Answer be stricken and default be entered against him. This motion is based
upon Towhidlow’s failure to adhere to the Court’s July 24, 2024 order that he
provide responses to Abdo’s initial discovery demands. Abdo states that
Towhidlow has produced no discovery responses and has not paid the monetary
sanctions assessed in the order. Towhidlow has filed no opposition to the
motion. Pursuant to
C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its
being granted. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a party fails
to obey an order compelling answers to discovery, “the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c),
2023.010(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.
App. 4th 486, 495.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists
in disobeying the court’s orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 795-796.) 
 
A terminating
sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Id.
at 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.
But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th
262, 279-280.) 
 
While the court has
discretion to impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be
appropriate to the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo
supra, 84 Cal. App. 3d at 793.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds that it
lacks the information to determine whether terminating sanctions are warranted.
The Court acknowledges that this lack of information is not the result of any
action by Abdo. Rather, events have transpired between the filing of this
motion and the instant hearing which give the Court pause in issuing
terminating sanctions. 
 
Specifically, at the
November 5, 2024 OSC hearing, the Court ordered that Abdo re-serve all
discovery on Towhidlow. This order was made in light of the fact that Towhidlow
now represented himself in pro per and had stated to the Court that his
previous attorney of record did not provide him with the discovery demands. In
the time since making this order, no proofs of service or declarations have
been submitted from which the Court could determine that Towhidlow was served
with the demands. 
 
In the context of
discovery compliance, a lack of diligence may be deemed willful in the sense
that the party understood his obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed
to comply. (Deyo supra, at 787.) To properly determine whether
Towhidlow’s willingly refused to comply with the Court’s order, the Court must
confirm that he understands his obligations under those discovery demands. It
follows that the Court must be certain that Towhidlow received those demands
and understood the obligations which flowed from them. The Court simply lacks
the resources to make such a determination at this juncture. Accordingly, the
Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Victoria Abdo’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions came on regularly
for hearing on January 17, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR
TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
ABDO TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 