 Case Number:  23BBCV01035    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01035

 



MP:  


Gibraltar
  Convalescent Hospital (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Lucille
  Mary Schermerhorn (Defendant) [No Opposition Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Gibraltar Convalescent Hospital (Plaintiff) brings this
action against Lucille Mary Schermerhorn (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges
Defendant owes approximately $153,742.24 for skilled nursing care that was
rendered to Defendant’s late husband (Decedent). 
 
Before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion
to compel the deposition of Defendant. Plaintiff argues that despite properly
noticing Defendant’s deposition, Defendant did not object to the deposition and
did not appear. Defendant does not oppose this motion. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be
deemed consent to its being granted.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action […], without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, […] the party giving
the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition for November 14, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
(Wilson Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Defendant never served Plaintiff with any
objection to the notice. (Wilson Decl. ¶ 4.) On November 12, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel as a reminder of the upcoming
deposition. (Wilson Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) 
 
On November 13, 2024 at 3:16 p.m.,
Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel requesting that the deposition
be rescheduled. (Wilson Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. C.) This email provided no
explanation for why the deposition needed to be rescheduled or why Defendant
had never formally responded to the notice. (Id.) Instead, Defendant’s
counsel simply requested that they be provided “three workable dates in
December.” (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel denied the request, citing the lack
of justification for rescheduling and that the deposition was scheduled to
occur at 9:00 a.m. the next morning. (Wilson Decl. Exh. D.)
 
Plaintiff attaches Defendant’s nonappearance
as Exhibit E. After the nonappearance, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed to inquire
as to Defendant’s availability for three dates in November. (Wilson Decl.
¶ 9, Exh. F.) This email received no response. (Id.)
 
Discussion
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently demonstrated they are entitled to relief under C.C.P. §
2025.450(a). Plaintiff has demonstrated that (1) Defendant was properly served
with notice of the deposition, (2) Defendant failed to object to the notice,
(3) Defendant failed to appear at the noticed deposition, and (4) Plaintiff’s
counsel properly inquired as to the nonappearance in satisfaction of their meet
and confer requirements. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel
the deposition of Defendant is GRANTED. Due to the jury trial scheduled for
March 3, 2025, the deposition shall take place no later than January 31, 2025,
or such later date as stipulated to by the parties. 
 
Sanctions 
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450.) 
 
Here, the Court finds sanctions are not
appropriate.  Albeit it was the day
before the deposition, Defense counsel requested to reschedule for the
following month and did not oppose this motion. 
While Plaintiff was justifiably frustrated that Defense counsel did not
timely request a continuance nor provide an explanation, nevertheless the
conduct is such that Defendant appeared to be making an effort to pick an
alternative date.  Accordingly, the Court
declines to award sanctions.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Gibraltar Convalescent Hospital’s Motion to Compel Deposition came
on regularly for hearing on January 17, 2025, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S ATTENDANCE AT DEPOSITION IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
DEPOSITION SHALL OCCUR NO LATER THAN JANUARY 31, 2024 OR SUCH OTHER DATE AS
STIPULATED TO BY THE PARTIES. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 