 Case Number:  23BBCV02033    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02033

 
MP:     Pacifica of the Valley Corporation and
Pacifica Hospital of the Valley (Defendants)
RP:     Marisol
Sanchez, Maria Jose Sanchez, & Guadalupe Selene Sanchez, as individuals and
successors in interest to Jose Sanchez (Plaintiffs)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Marisol Sanchez, Maria Jose Sanchez, &
Guadalupe Selene Sanchez, as individuals and successors in interest to Jose
Sanchez (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Pacifica of the
Valley Corporation, Pacifica Hospital of the Valley (collectively Pacifica), Woody
Herman Jackson, M.D., Mehboob Ali Makhani, M.D., Edmond Melikterminas, M.D., and
Farsheed Nikbakht, M.D. (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to assess and address the medical
condition and needs of Jose Sanchez (Decedent)
when he was admitted to Pacifica on July 21, 2022, resulting in his death. 
 
On January 5, 2024, the Court sustained
Pacifica’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Elder Abuse with leave
to amend. Plaintiffs proceeded to file their First Amended Complaint (FAC) and
Pacifica once again demurred to the Elder Abuse cause of action. On April 26,
2024, the Court sustained Pacifica’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ cause of action
for Elder Abuse with leave to amend. Plaintiff thereafter filed their Second
Amended Complaint (SAC). 
 
Pacifica now demurs to same cause of action in
Plaintiffs’ SAC, arguing that the amendments have not cured the insufficient
factual allegations. Plaintiffs oppose and Pacifica replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)   A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Carter Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Facts Carrying Over from Prior Pleadings
 
Plaintiffs’
SAC retains basic facts that were present in the Complaint and FAC. For the
purpose of completeness, the Court identifies these facts and their location in
the SAC below. 
 
On
July 17, 2022, Decedent was admitted to Harbor UCLA Medical Center after being
placed on a 72-hour § 5150 hold. (SAC ¶ 19.) On July 21, 2022, Decedent
was transferred to Pacifica for continuing psychiatric observations as well as
for COVID-19 positive viral infection, depression, and confusion. (SAC
¶ 20.) Decedent was admitted to Pacifica’s medical psychiatric department.
(SAC ¶ 20.) 
 
Upon
admission to Pacifica, Woody Herman Jackson ordered that Pacifica place
Decedent on a one-to-one psychiatric protocol, otherwise known as a “sitter”
protocol, for an indefinite period of time. (SAC ¶ 21.) The sitter
protocol was shortly thereafter acknowledged by a Pacifica employee or agent
named Carlo Pascual. (SAC ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs allege that slightest
deviation from the strict requirements of a sitter protocol can lead to a
patient committing acts which can lead to or cause death or serious injuries.
(SAC ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs allege that sitters are required to be within arm’s
distance of a patient on a 24/7 basis. (SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege that
from the time the initial protocol was ordered on July 21, 2022 at 10:53 p.m.
until Decedent’s death on July 24, 2022 at 9:57 a.m., Pacifica failed to follow
these requirements. (FAC ¶ 24.)
 
Sometime
in the early morning hours between 1:00 a.m. and 2:15 a.m. on July 24, 2022,
Decedent was found on the floor after having fallen and hitting his head on the
concrete floor. (SAC ¶ 28.) Decedent was then sent to get a brain CT scan. (SAC
¶ 29.) At 8:51 a.m., Decedent was found naked and sitting on his
roommate’s bed, appearing confused and in distress. (SAC ¶ 29.) Decedent began
showing respiratory distress, gasping for air and turned unresponsive. (SAC ¶
29.) Decedent was pronounced dead at 9:57 a.m. (SAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Facts
Added in the 3AC
 
Plaintiffs
now additionally allege that Defendants were on notice of Decedent’s suicidal
tendencies and the risk it posed him if left unattended. (SAC ¶ 20.)
Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were aware that Decedent, “…had
attempted suicide by throwing himself onto sharp metal fencing rods in his
backyard to meet his recently deceased wife in heaven.” (SAC ¶ 20.) 
 
Plaintiffs
also now allege that, based on discovery responses, Pacifica does not utilize
its nursing staff in carrying out sitter protocols. (SAC ¶ 23.) Instead,
these protocols are allegedly carried out by Certified Nursing Assistants
(CNA). (SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege that Pacifica’s nursing staff
conducts separate hourly checks, but they are not assigned to conduct any 1:1
sitter observation. (SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege these separate hourly
checks last no more than five minutes and do not serve the same self-harm
prevention purposes as the sitter protocols. (SAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs allege
that Decedent never received the 1:1 attention required by the sitter protocol.
(SAC ¶¶ 23, 25.) Plaintiffs allege that instead, Pacifica determined the sitter
protocol would be adhered to on an “as needed basis” (SAC ¶ 25.)
Plaintiffs allege that after Decedent’s fall, Pacifica nurse Aivie Janeo
purportedly “commenced” and “executed” the 1:1 sitter protocol for the first
time. (SAC ¶ 29.) 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that the discovery responses by Pacifica also reveal that they
maintained an inadequate number of CNA to carry out the sitter protocols on the
day of Decedent’s incident. (SAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs allege that to properly
carry out the sitter protocols for the nine patients who required it, Pacifica
would require 36 CNAs. (SAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs therefore allege that
Pacifica’s maintaining only six CNA was inadequate. (SAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Perhaps
the greatest change from the previous pleadings are the facts concerning
Decedent’s fall. Previously, Plaintiffs allegations were unclear as to the
cause of Decedent’s fall. The Complaint and FAC contained a variety of
allegations indicating the fall was caused by Pacifica’s apparent failure to
institute proper fall protocols needed by Decedent. (See FAC ¶¶ 25, 27.)
Plaintiffs now explicitly allege that Decedent’s fall was the result of his
plan to commit suicide. Plaintiffs allege that, “Based on information obtained
by Pacifica, the fall was intentional with the intent to sustain a fatal head
injury. This information is derived from comments by Decedent Sanchez
expressing his intent to die and to do it by self-inflicted means.” (SAC ¶ 28.)

 
Discussion 
 
The
Court finds the additional allegations are insufficient to cure the deficiency
in Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Elder Abuse. As will be explained below, the
Court does not view these new allegations as speaking to the routine denial of
basic care as contemplated by the Elder Abuse Act. 
 
To plead elder or dependent
adult abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that the defendant:
(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent
adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2)
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the¿plaintiff¿alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.)
 
Neglect
as contemplated by Welf. and Inst. Code § 15610.57 is a somewhat amorphous
concept. In Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th
148, the California Supreme Court acknowledged that the statute provided a non-exhaustive
list of examples such as failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to
provide food, clothing, or shelter, failure to protect from health and safety
hazards, and failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration. (Winn supra
63 Cal.4th 148, 156 citing Welf. and Inst. Code §§ 15610.57(b)(1)-(6).) From
this, the Winn court reasoned that neglect meant the failure to carry
out an assumed responsibility, “…for attending to one or more of an elder's
basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be
capable of managing without assistance.” (Id. at 158.) 
 
Other
case law has made clear that neglect within the meaning of the statute is
intended to cover an area of misconduct distinct from professional negligence.¿
(Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)¿ The
problem thus arises that the lines between failure to provide for basic needs
and medical negligence are often blurry. The Covenant Care court
addressed this issue in stating, “As used in the Act, neglect refers not to the
substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of
those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations.”¿ (Id. [citation omitted])¿¿¿ 
 
Under
the lens of Covenant Care, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ allegations
concerning the sitter protocol still do not sufficiently allege neglect under
the Elder Abuse Act. Plaintiffs notably do not allege that Pacifica outright
refused to adhere to the sitter protocol, instead alleging that Pacifica only
carried out the protocol on an “as needed” basis. This is an allegation of
professional negligence, not neglect. The same can be said of Plaintiffs’
allegation that Pacifica did not have sufficient CNA to carry out its sitter
protocols. The fact that six CNA are insufficient to provide the required 1:1
supervision again speaks to Pacifica’s failure to adequately provide care, not
the outright failure to provide it in the first place. Here too Plaintiffs allege
that the protocol was not followed sufficiently such that Decedent was found in
distress some hours later. 
 
In
other words, Plaintiffs’ additional allegations in the SAC all speak to
Pacifica’s failure to adequately administer the sitter protocol, rather than a
complete refusal to provide those services, or to provide them to such a
minimal degree that it is tantamount to no services at all. Each of these
allegations are sufficient to establish in a Complaint that Pacifica was
negligent in rendering medical services, but they are not sufficient to allege
that Pacifica failed to provide those services in the first place.
 
Plaintiffs’
attempt to distinguish Pacifica’s hourly checks from the checks required by the
sitter protocol are unpersuasive. Plaintiff argues that Pacifica’s use of
hourly checks, rather than a CNA, constitutes neglect for purposes of Elder
Abuse. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. Both checks serve the
purpose of supervising mental health patients, although they require different
levels of supervision. Pacifica’s decision to monitor Decedent via hourly
checks rather than the 1:1 supervision by a CNA speaks to Pacifica’s failure to
adequately provide supervision for Decedent, not their outright refusal to
supervise him. Pacifica’s election to forgo the 1:1 supervision may certainly
be an act of professional negligence, but it is not the outright denial of
basic needs needed to sustain a cause of action for Elder Abuse. 
 
In
short, the Court finds the allegations of the SAC remain insufficient to state
a cause of action for Elder Abuse. Plaintiffs’ allegations all reflect that
Pacifica was negligent in carrying out the sitter protocol, not that Pacifica
failed to carry it out full stop. 
 
Accordingly,
Pacifica’s demurrer to the first cause of action for Elder Abuse is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. This is Plaintiff’s third attempt to state a cause of action
and has been unable to do so.  Further,
it is apparent that significant discovery has already occurred such that any
additional facts supporting the Elder Abuse cause were already within
Plaintiffs’ knowledge when they filed their SAC. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Pacifica of the Valley Corporation and Pacifica
Hospital of the Valley’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike came on regularly for hearing on January 17, 2025, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PACIFICA TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.