 Case Number:  24BBCV00231    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00231

 



MP:  


Hai Van Le (Defendant)




RP:  


Clarissa Esther Avila-Garduno and
  Karla Nancy Garduno Hernandez (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Clarissa Esther
Avila-Garduno (Clarissa) and Karla Nancy Garduno Hernandez (Karla)
(collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Hai Van Le (Defendant) in
connection with a January 13, 2023 motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant negligently operated his motor vehicle such that he struck both
Plaintiff Karla and her child, Clarissa, while they were crossing the street at
Thienes Ave. in South El Monte, California. 
 
Before the Court are
the following six motions, two of which were continued from their original
hearing date of January 10, 2025. All motions are bought by Defendant and are
as follows: 
 
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to Form Interrogatories as to Garduno 
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories as to Garduno (Continued from
January 10, 2025)
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to RFPD as to Garduno (Continued from January 10, 2025)
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to Form Interrogatories as to Hernandez 
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories as to Hernandez
·        
Motion to compel
further responses to RFPD as to Hernandez 
 
Plaintiff Clarissa
appears to have filed oppositions to the motions regarding Special
Interrogatories and RFPD, but has not filed an opposition for the motion
regarding Form Interrogatories. 
Plaintiff Karla has filed no opposition to any motion. Pursuant to
C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its
being granted.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P. §¿2030.300(a).)
The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections thereto. (Coy
v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline

 
On
June 3, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiffs’ counsel with their Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD. (Young Decl. ¶ 2, Exh.
A.) On July 23, 2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel correspondence
reminding them that responses were due July 5, 2024. (Young Decl. ¶ 3,
Exh. B.)  Defendant’s counsel provided
until July 29, 2024 to provide answers without objections, lest he move forward
with the instant motions. (Id.) 
 
On
August 12, 2024, Plaintiffs served their responses consisting of objections and
unverified answers. (Young Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant states that no
verifications have been received to date. (Id.) 
 
Discussion

 
The Court finds that under the circumstances
described above, Defendant’s motions are more akin to a motion to compel
initial responses than a motion to compel further responses. This is because
none of the responses received by Defendant were verified by Plaintiffs. C.C.P. §
2030.250(a) provides that, “The party to whom the interrogatories are directed
shall sign the response under oath unless the response contains only
objections.” As Plaintiffs failed to verify their responses, Defendant
has functionally never received answers to his discovery demands. (See Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 [“Unverified
responses are tantamount to no responses at all.”].) 
 
As mentioned above, the only exception to this verification
requirement is where the responses consist of nothing but objections. A review
of the responses rendered here reveal that this is not the case. While
Plaintiffs’ responses to each set of demands are laden with objections, they
also contain factual assertions which require verification. Plaintiffs’ failure
to verify their responses has resulted in an effective failure to respond.  As such, the Court sees little
reason to engage in the analysis required by a motion to compel further
responses. 
 
The opposition papers do not refute the
responses issued were both untimely and unverified. Plaintiffs’ counsel states
that they immediately began to prepare responses upon receipt but their efforts
at verification were thwarted when Plaintiffs refused to communicate.
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that their office has experienced complete radio silence
from Plaintiffs despite numerous attempts to reach them. (Myers Decl.
¶¶ 2-4.) The Court also notes that the oppositions advance no argument in
support of the objections contained in those responses.
 
In short, the Court finds Plaintiffs should
be compelled to respond to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and RFPD. As Plaintiffs failed to render responses prior to
the statutory deadline (July 5, 2024), they have waived their objections. (See
C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(a), 2031.300(a).)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to serve verified and objection free responses to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD no later
than February 14, 2024. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court has
discretion to impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct. (C.C.P. §
2023.030(a).) Sanctions are only mandatory as against a party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories or RFPD, unless the Court finds they acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (C.C.P. §§ 2030.290(c) & 2031.300(c).) Regardless, it
is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel, and
the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
four of Defendant’s six motions remain unopposed. As concerns the two
opposition that were rendered, the Court finds they were without substantial
justification. While the Court understands the duty of Plaintiffs’ counsel to
protect their client’s interests, the fact remains that Plaintiffs have no
justification for their failure to communicate with their counsel or provide
verified discovery responses. Plaintiffs cannot seek to avoid the imposition of
discovery sanctions when their failure to respond has resulted from nothing
other than their own neglect of the case. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,321.02 as against Plaintiffs
only. This amount reflects six hours of attorney work in preparing the motions
at the stated $160.17 hourly rate, plus the $60 filing fee per motion. (Young
Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hai Van Le Motions to
Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on January 17, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFFS ARE ORDERED TO SERVE VERIFIED CODE
COMPLIANT RESPONSES WITHOUT OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S FORM INTERROGATORIES,
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND RFPD.  PLAINTIFF
SHALL SERVE THESE RESONSES NO LATER THAN FEBRUARY 14, 2024 OR SUCH LATER DATE
STIPULATED TO BETWEEN A PLAINTIFF AND THE DEFENDANT.
 
SANCTIONS ARE IMPOSED AS AGAINST PLAINTIFFS
JOINT AND SEVERAL IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $1,321.02 DIVIDED EQUALLY BETWEEN
PLAINTIFFS FOR $663.51 FOR EACH PLAINTIFF. 
SANCTIONS SHALL BE DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 