  Case Number:  22BBCV00702    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00702

 



MP:  


Maria Baires, Gloribel Baires, individually and as successor-in-interest to and on
  behalf of Maria Baires, Mirna Vanegas, and Samuel Baires (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


ICC Convalescent Corp.
  (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Gloribel Baires,
individually and as successor-in-interest to and on behalf of Maria
Baires (Decedent), Mirna Vanegas and Samuel Baires (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against ICC Convalescent Corp. (ICC).
Plaintiffs allege that Decedent received substandard care as a resident at ICC’s
facilities and that such substandard care resulted in Decedent’s injury and
death. 
 
Plaintiffs move to compel
ICC’s further responses to their Special Interrogatories (SPROG) and Request
for Production of Documents (RFPD). ICC opposes the motions and Plaintiffs
reply.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
RFPD
Timeline
 
On
June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs served ICC with their RFPD (Farwell Decl. ¶ 2.)
On September 27, 2024, ICC served their unverified responses. (Farwell Decl.
Exh. B.) On October 3, 2024, ICC served their First Supplemental Responses to
SPROG and RFPD. (Farwell Decl. Exh. C.) Plaintiffs allege no documents
accompanied the supplemental responses to RFPD (Farwell Decl. ¶ 4).  On October 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
reached out via email to meet and confer regarding the responses. (Farwell
Decl. Exh. D.) On November 4, 2024, ICC’s counsel responded with a meet and
confer email attempting to address the perceived shortcomings of their initial
and First Supplemental Responses. (Farwell Decl. Exh. E.) 
 
On
November 5, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested a two-week extension for the
deadline to file the instant motion. (Farwell Decl. ¶ 7.) The Court notes
that although this request is stated to be attached as Exhibit F to the Farwell
Declaration, no such attachment is present. Plaintiffs’ counsel states that
additional time was required to review ICC’s meet and confer letter and reply.
(Farwell Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs state that this request received no response.
(Farwell Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
On
November 6, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested that ICC provide the documents
referenced in Defendant’s First Supplemental Responses as to RFPD Nos. 4, 5, 9
and 15. (Farwell Decl. ¶ 8.) It appears these documents were produced as
they are attached to Exhibit C of Plaintiffs’ motion. 
 
On
November 8, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed the instant motion. After the
motion was filed, it is apparent that further supplemental production took
place. The Court notes that none of this supplemental production is attached to
ICC’s oppositions, nor attested to in the declaration of their counsel. In
fact, the declaration submitted in opposition to the motion to compel further
RFPD responses contains facts which apparently speak to an entirely unrelated
discovery dispute. (See Alvarado Decl. ¶ 2 [“On August 15, 2023, Plaintiffs
served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, to Defendant that
contained 143 separate requests.”].) Regardless, these supplemental responses
are attached to Plaintiffs’ reply briefings. 
 
On
November 18, 2024, ICC served its Second Supplemental Responses to the RFPD,
which were unverified. (Farwell Reply Decl. ¶ 2.) These responses are not
attached to Plaintiffs’ reply briefing. On December 27, 2024, ICC served
Plaintiffs with its Third Supplemental Responses to the RFPD, which were also
unverified. (Farwell Reply Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)   
 
Timeline
for SPROG 
 
On
June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs served ICC with their SPROG (Farwell Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. A.) On September 26, 2024, ICC served its responses. (Farwell Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. B.)
 
On
October 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel reaches out via email to meet and confer
regarding the responses. (Farwell Decl. Exh. C.) On November 4, 2024, ICC’s
counsel responded with a meet and confer email attempting to address the
perceived shortcomings of their initial responses. (Farwell Decl. Exh. E.) 
 
On
November 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. It does not appear any
further responses were rendered to SPROG. 
 
General
Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs’
meet and confer efforts do not appear sufficient. A
motion to compel further responses to a request for production must include a
meet and confer declaration consistent with C.C.P. § 2016.040. (C.C.P. §
2031.310 (b)(2).) In turn, Section 2016.040 requires that the moving party have
made “a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.” (C.C.P. § 2016.040.) C.C.P. § 2030.300(b)(1)
contains an identical provision as regards motions to compel further responses
to interrogatories. 
 
“A single letter, followed by a response
which refuses concessions, might in some instances be an adequate attempt at
informal resolution, especially when a legitimate discovery objective is
demonstrated. The time available before the motion filing deadline, and the
extent to which the responding party was complicit in the lapse of available
time, can also be relevant. An evaluation of whether, from the perspective of a
reasonable person in the position of the discovering party, additional effort
appeared likely to bear fruit, should also be considered” (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.) 
 
For purposes of determining whether a motion to compel
discovery was preceded by a reasonable and good faith effort to meet and
confer, such a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with opposing counsel; rather, the law requires
that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate.  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294)
 
Plaintiffs’
October 18, 2024 meet and confer letter totals 90 pages. Upon review it appears
that the letter is more of a separate statement than meet and confer
correspondence. In fact, the content of Plaintiffs’ meet and confer letter
largely mirrors the content of their separate statements submitted in support
of these motions. While some overlap is certainly expected between these two
documents, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ lengthy recitation of authority
to be a sufficient attempt at informal compromise. This letter certainly
initiated the meet and confer process, but it is not indicative of a
comprehensive effort to resolve the issues with opposing counsel prior to
bringing this motion. 
 
Further,
ICC’s November 5 response appears to indicate that further informal efforts
would have, at least in part, produced additional documents sought by
Plaintiffs’ motions. This is especially true because it appears from ICC’s
response that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts did not address ICC’s First
Supplemental Responses. (Farwell Decl. Exh. %, p. 293-294 [“However, as to
Demands Nos. 4, 5 and 9, on October 3, 2024, Defendant served its Further
Responses and provided documents responsive to these demands. It is hereby
requested that Plaintiffs confirm their receipt of same. Additionally,
Defendant will also be serving its Further Amended Responses to these Demands
with additional documents shortly.].) 
 
The
Court understands that meet and confer efforts were time limited by Plaintiffs’
45-day deadline to file this motion, however Plaintiffs failed to attach their
request for extension. While the request, and ICC’s failure to respond, is
attested to in the Farwell declaration, the Court is unaware of the context of
that request. For example, was the request attached to other correspondence
that would have made it easy to miss? Or was it contained in its own email such
that overlooking it would be impossible? It seems unlikely to the Court that
ICC’s counsel would purposefully not respond to Plaintiffs’ request and then
proceed to issue two more sets of supplemental response shortly thereafter. 
 
The
result of this truncated meet and confer period is substantial confusion in
what discovery demands remain the proper subject of these motions, especially
as concerns the RFPD. As a result of the three rounds of supplemental
responses, at least some portion of Plaintiffs’ filed motion have been rendered
moot. Plaintiffs’ separate statement, the tool intended to assist the Court in
parsing out complicated discovery issues such as this one, has been rendered
ineffective by the supplemental responses and production.
 
Plaintiffs’
reply papers do little to clear this confusion. Although Plaintiffs reference
some of the supplemental responses, their argument seems to be that these
supplemental responses cannot be considered because they were unverified. As
will be explained below, the Court is unable to ascertain which supplemental
responses were verified and which were not. While Plaintiffs maintain in their
Reply that RFPD Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 65, and 67 still require
further production, their discussion of these RFPD are lumped together in a way
which makes adjudication of this dispute unwieldy. 
 
Further,
the Court is entirely uncertain as to whether any of the responses issued by
ICC have been verified. Of course, ICC should know that responses must be
verified, and the failure to do so is a discovery violation; nonetheless, this
can often be cured with a genuine meet and confer effort.  Each of the Exhibits containing ICC’s
responses to RFPD either lack a verification entirely or state that
verifications will follow. Neither the declaration of Farwell or Alvarado state
whether verifications were ultimately provided. This poses a substantial
challenge to the Court in ruling on these motions, as it is unclear which of
ICC’s three rounds of supplemental RFPD responses are verified and which are
not. 
 
Nor
is it clear which objections remain and to which RFPD they apply. ICC has
objected to RFPD Nos. 31-36, 42, 46-48, 51-52, 54, 56-57, 63-64, and 68-72 on
grounds that these RFPD request protected confidential, financial, and
proprietary information. Among the statutes cited as grounds for this objection
in ICC’s opposition are Evidence Code § 1157, Bus & Prof. Code § 805, and
42 U.S.C. § 1395i-3(B)(1)(B). Yet none of these statutes are cited in the ICC’s
separate statement in opposition, leaving the Court to guess as to which
statutes apply to which request. It cannot be that Bus & Prof. Code § 805
prohibits discovery of every document in ICC’s possession which is potentially
responsive to any of these 20 plus RFPD. 

 
It
appears that even Plaintiffs are unclear what has and has not been produced. By
way of example, the Court notes Plaintiffs’ argument in their Reply that ICC,
“…falsely asserts in its Opposition that it produced “Nursing Staff and
Assignment Sheets and Daily Census Reports”, CDPH 530 forms, CDPH 612 forms,
Roster/Sample Matrix “CMS-802” (Reply. p. 3.) Indeed, ICC’s separate statement
claims that on January 6, 2025, “…[d]efense Counsel provided additional
documents responsive to this request, i.e., Nursing Staff and Assignment Sheets
and Daily Census Reports, as “Further RDP #4/#5/#9.”  (Opp. SS. No. 2.) Plaintiffs’ Reply, filed
January 10, 2025, makes no mention of this apparent Fourth Supplemental
Response. 
 
In
short, the Court finds that the failure of the parties to meet and confer has
caused substantial difficulty in properly adjudicating these motions. Despite
the hundreds of pages of briefing and separate statements, the Court remains
unaware as to what requests and documents remain in dispute. Where Plaintiffs
have propounded such voluminous discovery requests, it is incumbent upon them
to properly meet and confer to whittle down the issues prior to filing these
motions. Plaintiffs cannot move to compel further responses to a vast amount of
discovery requests and then request piecemeal adjudication in their Reply
papers after four rounds of supplemental production. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court orders Plaintiffs’ motions continued to February 14, 2025. The
parties are ordered to further meet and confer regarding what production
remains outstanding and which requests have been mooted by supplemental
production. To the extent that any of the supplemental production by ICC
remains unverified, ICC is ordered to serve verifications. Plaintiffs are
ordered to submit a revised separate statement and memorandum no later than
January 31, 2025. ICC is ordered to submit a revised separate statement and
memorandum in opposition no later than February 7, 2024. Should ICC maintain
its objections on the grounds of privilege, it must submit a log specifically
identifying the documents it refuses to produce on those grounds. 
 
In
the event these informal efforts resolve the outstanding issues, counsel is to
contact the Court to request the motions be removed from the calendar. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Maria Baires, Gloribel
Baires, individually and as successor-in-interest to
and on behalf of Maria Baires, Mirna Vanegas, and Samuel Baires’ Motions
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on January 17, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE CONTINUED TO FEBRUARY 14, 2024. 
 
THE
PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO FURTHER MEET AND CONFER PENDING THIS DATE. 
 
PLAINTIFFS
ARE TO SUBMIT A REVISED SEPARATE STATEMENT AND MEMORANDUM NO LATER THAN JANUARY
31, 2025. 
 
ICC IS TO
SUBMIT A REVISED SEPARATE STATEMENT, MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION, AND PRIVILEGE
LOG NO LATER THAN FEBRUARY 7, 2024.
 
ICC TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 