  Case Number:  23STCV07055    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  74 Destiny Oviedo v. CPE HR. Inc., et
al.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration.
 
The
court considered the moving papers and opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an employment
dispute.
            On
March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Destiny Oviedo (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendants CPE HR, Inc. and California Post-Acute Care, LLC (Defendants). The
complaint alleges pregnancy discrimination, disability discrimination, failure
to accommodate, failure to engage in the interactive process, retaliation, and
failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation.
            On
July 24, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to compel arbitration.
DISCUSSION
            The parties dispute whether an
arbitration agreement is in place between them. Plaintiff argues she never saw
or electronically signed such an agreement. If an employee cannot recall
signing an arbitration agreement, the employer has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the electronic signature was authentic—or
resulted from an act of the employee. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846; Evid. Code, § 1401; Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a) [“An
. . . electronic signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the
person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing
of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to
which the . . . electronic signature was attributable.”].) 
            In
their reply, Defendants point out that Plaintiff recalls signing onboarding
paperwork, which, Defendants claim, included the arbitration agreement. (Reply,
p. 2; Oviedo Decl., ¶ 3.) But Plaintiff does not concede that the onboarding
paperwork at issue included the arbitration agreement. Moreover, she asserts
that she physically signed those documents. (Oviedo Decl., ¶ 6.) By contrast,
Plaintiff’s alleged signature on the arbitration agreement is electronic.
Defendants further argue the timestamp on Plaintiff’s electronic signature is
the same as that on the other onboarding documents Plaintiff allegedly electronically
signed. But Defendants have not provided those documents. 
            Moreover,
Defendants have not proffered sufficient evidence demonstrating the electronic
signature resulted from an act of Plaintiff. True, Defendants have provided a
declaration from their human resources manager. But the manager does not say
how she could infer that Plaintiff produced the electronic signature. For
example, the manager does not describe a security procedure and how it would
apply to Plaintiff if she electronically signed the agreement. Thus, Defendants
have not persuaded the court that the electronic signature is authentic. (See Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844
[electronic signature with employee’s name and a timestamp insufficient to
support a finding that signature was an act of employee].)
CONCLUSION
                Based on the foregoing, the court denies
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
Defendant
shall give notice.