 Case Number:  BC597857    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  74 SoCal
Diesel, Inc. v. Extrasensory Software, Inc., et al.
Motion to Seal
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute over alleged misappropriation of trade secrets.
            In
October 2015, Plaintiff SoCal Diesel, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendants ExtraSensory Software, Inc., Ira Emus and Robyn Emus
(Defendants).
            On
September 14, 2023, Defendants filed a redacted motion for an order that a
party be joined or, in the alternative, dismissal.
            On
September 15, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to seal the prior motion and
supporting declarations and exhibits.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently, pleadings, motions, evidence, and
other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties;
rather, a prior court order is necessary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subd. (a).) 
            To
grant such an order, the court must expressly find that . . . “an overriding
interest exists that overcomes the right of public access to the record, an
overriding interest supports sealing the records, a substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed, the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550, subd. (d).) 
            If
the court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and
cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
DISCUSSION  
            Defendants
seek an order sealing the following documents: significant portions of the
Defendants’ motion for an order that a party be joined, or in the alternative,
dismissal; (2) the supporting declaration of Eric Bjorgum; Exhibits A, C, D, G,
H, and I—all of which are attached to the Bjorgum declaration; the entire
declaration of Marc Karish; and all exhibits attached to the Karish declaration.
In support, Defendants identify an overriding interest in preserving trade secrets
that overcomes the public’s right of access to the records at issue. (Civ.
Code, § 3426.5 [“[A] court shall preserve the secrecy of an alleged trade
secret by reasonable means, which may include . . . sealing the records in the
action . . .”].) Disclosure of trade secrets will compromise the overriding
interest in preserving the confidentiality of trade secrets. However, Defendants’
motion is overly broad and is not sufficiently narrowly tailored to satisfy
California Rule of Court 2.550 because Defendants ask the court to seal entire
declarations and exhibits, instead of specifying the portions that reveal trade
secrets. 
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Defendants’ motion to seal without prejudice.
Defendants
shall give notice.