  Case Number:  23TRCV01138    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
AMERICAN
  EXPRESS NATIONAL BANK, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01138




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOEL
  PORTILLO,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 25, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff American Express National Bank
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.  The motion for summary
adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.
BACKGROUND
            On April 12, 2023, plaintiff
American Express National Bank filed a complaint against defendant Joel
Portillo for common counts (open book account and account stated).
            On July 25, 2023, a default was
entered against defendant.
            On August 30, 2023, a default
judgment was entered.
            On August 30, 2023, the parties
stipulated and the court ordered that the default and default judgment be
vacated.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action.  Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.  “’An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.’”  Lyons
v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 1001, 1014
(citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff American Express National
Bank requests summary judgment on the ground that there is no triable issue of
fact and as a matter of law, plaintiff prevails.  In the alternative, plaintiff requests
summary adjudication as to each of its common counts.
            Plaintiff argues that it has
established causes of action for open book account and account stated.
“The term ‘book account’ means a
detailed statement which constitutes the principal record of one or more
transactions between a debtor and creditor arising out of a contract . . . and
show the debits and credits in connection therewith, against whom and in favor
of whom entries are made, is entered in the regular scope of business as
conducted by such creditor . . . , and if kept in a reasonably permanent form
and manner and is (1) in a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in
ta book or to a backing but detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of
a permanent character, or is kept in any other reasonably permanent form and
manner.”  CCP §337a.  A “book account is a detailed statement of
debit/credit transactions kept by a creditor in the regular course of business,
and in a reasonably permanent manner.”  Reigelsperger
v. Siller (2007) 40 Cal. 4th 574, 579 n.5. 
“An account stated is an agreement,
based on prior transactions between the parties, that all items of the account
are true and that the balance struck is due and owing from one party to the
other.”  Trafton v. Youngblood
(1968) 68 Cal. 2d 17, 25.  In order to
establish an account stated, “[i]t must appear that at the time of the
statement an indebtedness from one party to the other existed, that a balance
was then struck and agreed to be the correct sum owing from the debtor to the
creditor, and that the debtor expressly or impliedly promised to pay to the
creditor the amount thus determined to be owing.”  H. Russell Taylor’s Fire Protection
Service, Inc. v. Coca Cola Bottling Corp. (1979) 99 Cal. App. 3d 711,
726-27.  If a statement is rendered and
the debtor fails to object or reply with a reasonable time, the law implies an
agreement that the account is correct as rendered.”  Maggio Inc. v. Neal (1987) 196 Cal.
App. 3d 745, 752-53. 
            In support of the first cause of
action for open book account, plaintiff presents evidence that on December 4,
2019, defendant Joel Portillo opened an American Express Business Platinum Card
account with current account number XXXX-XXXXX-X1009.  Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (“PUMF”) 1.  The terms and
conditions for use of the accounts are governed by Cardmember Agreement.  PUMF 2. 
American Express sent defendant a copy of the Cardmember Agreement along
with the physical credit card when defendant opened the account.  From time to time, American Express updates
the terms and conditions of its Cardmember Agreement and transmits copies of
the updated agreement to its cardmembers. 
PUMF 3.  By keeping and using the
accounts, defendant agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the
current Cardmember Agreement and any subsequent changes.  PUMF 4. 
Defendant used the accounts to pay for various goods and services and/or
obtain cash advances.  PUMF 5.  Pursuant to the Cardmember Agreement, defendant
was personally responsible for repaying American Express for all charges,
advances, fees, and interest on the accounts by paying the account in full
every month or by making regular monthly payments.  PUMF 6.
            Plaintiff further provides evidence
that defendant failed to make the required monthly payments on the
account.  PUMF 7.  American Express maintained an accounting of
all the credits and debits on the account in the form of billing statements
that it generated and stored on its internal network and also sent to defendant
every month.  PUMF 8.  Pursuant to the Cardmember Agreement and
state and federal law, defendant had a reasonable period of 60 days to dispute
any billing errors on the account by submitting a written dispute to American
Express.  PUMF 9.  There are no unresolved billing disputes on
defendant’s account.  PUMF 10.  As defendant has failed to make the required
payments, the entire balance of $74,486.18 is now due on defendant’s
account.  PUMF 11.
See also PUMF 12-22 (same as PUMF
1-11) in support of the second cause of action for account stated.  See Mehdi Touhidi declaration, and exhibits.
            There is no opposition.
            The court finds that plaintiff has
met its burden of showing that there is no defense to its causes of action for
open book account and account stated by proving each element of the causes of
action.  As there is no opposition,
defendant has not met his burden of presenting evidence to raise a triable issue
of material fact. 
            Thus, the motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.  The motion for
summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary
judgment.
 
ORDER
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.  The motion for summary
adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.

            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
            Moving
party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.