  Case Number:  20STCP04290    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DAVID
  SEYDE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BRIAN KENNEDY, et
  al.,   
                                                                         
  
                        Defendants.    


 


      CASE NO.: 20STCP04290
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
 
Date:  January 26, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”), Skyline Outdoor Media LLC, and
Brian Kennedy (“Brian”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)[1]
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
The currently
operative fifth amended complaint (the “5AC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract;
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach
of fiduciary duty; (4) fraud; (5) intentional interference with contractual
relations; and (6) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
The cross-complaint
(the “XC”) alleges: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) breach of covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) misappropriation of trade secrets; (4) common
law right of publicity; (5) statutory misappropriation of name and likeness; (6)
trademark infringement; (7) intentional interference with prospective economic
relations; (8) unfair business practices; and (9) unjust enrichment.
 
On December 15,
2023, Moving Defendants filed four motions to quash (collectively, the
“Motions”) the deposition subpoenas (collectively, the “Subpoenas”) that
Plaintiff served on non-parties BDO, USA, P.C. (“BDO”); FTI Consulting, Inc.
(“FTI”); Macias, Gini & O’Connell, LLP (“MGO”); and Manatt, Phelps &
Phillips, LLP (“Manatt”).
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Moving Defendants’ and Plaintiff’s Requests
for Judicial Notice are GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not
to the truth of the matters stated therein. 
(Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Moving Defendants’ evidentiary
objections are SUSTAINED. 
            
 
 
DISCUSSION
Under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 1987.1, subdivision (a), if a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion made by any
person described in CCP section 1987.1, subdivision (b), or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare.  (CCP § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  
 
CCP
section 1985.3, subdivision (b) provides: prior to the date called for in the
subpoena duces tecum for the production of personal records, the subpoenaing
party shall serve or cause to be served on the consumer whose records are being
sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum, of the affidavit supporting the
issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the notice described in subdivision
(e), and proof of service as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).  This service shall be made as follows:
(1)  To the consumer
personally, or at his or her last known address, or in accordance with Chapter
5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 3, or, if he or she is a
party, to his or her attorney of record. 
If the consumer is a minor, service shall be made on the minor's parent,
guardian, conservator, or similar fiduciary, or if one of them cannot be
located with reasonable diligence, then service shall be made on any person
having the care or control of the minor or with whom the minor resides or by
whom the minor is employed, and on the minor if the minor is at least 12 years
of age;
 
(2)  Not less than 10
days prior to the date for production specified in the subpoena duces tecum,
plus the additional time provided by Section 1013 if service is by mail; and
 
(3)  At least five days
prior to service upon the custodian of the records, plus the additional time
provided by Section 1013 if service is by mail.
 
(CCP § 1085.3,
subd. (b).) 
 
CCP
section 1985.3, subdivision (c) provides: prior to the production of the
records, the subpoenaing party shall do either of the following: (1) serve or
cause to be served upon the witness a proof of personal service or of service
by mail attesting to compliance with subdivision (b); or (2) furnish the
witness a written authorization to release the records signed by the consumer
or by his or her attorney of record. 
(CCP § 1985.3, subd. (c).) 
 
The Manatt and FTI subpoenas were served on
August 22, 2023.  (See Declarations
of Sarah A. Swanson (“Swanson Decl.”) ¶7, Exhibit 1.)  The FTI and BDO subpoenas were served on
October 27, 2023.  (See Swanson
Decl. ¶¶ 12-13, Exhibits 6-7.)  
 
 Between
2017 and 2019, Drake, Brian, and Regency retained Manatt to represent them as
counsel to oversee the sale of Regency’s assets.  (Swanson Decl. ¶ 2.)  In 2018, Manatt retained BDO on Regency’s
behalf to perform financial analysis related to a settlement agreement.  (Swanson Decl. ¶ 3.)  During this time, BDO provided unrelated
services to Regency.  (Id.)  FTI was retained by a court-appointed
receiver in another matter to perform forensic accounting, and in 2020, FTI
created a Virtual Data Room (“VDR”) that is subject to a nondisclosure
agreement.  (Swanson Decl.
¶ 5.)  MGO was responsible for
preparing taxes for Moving Defendants individually.  (Swanson Decl. ¶ 2.)  
As a preliminary matter, the Subpoenas cited
in the Motions seek consumer records because they request documents relating to
Brian and Drake generally, and do not limit the requests to documents
concerning their capacities as Regency’s representatives.  It is undisputed that Plaintiff did not
provide consumer notices as required under CCP section 1985.3,
subdivision (b).  Furthermore,
Plaintiff’s oppositions (collectively, the “Oppositions”) do not address Moving
Defendants’ argument that the information sought in the current subpoenas is
duplicative of the information Plaintiff has obtained pursuant to a separate
subpoena to another third party.  (See
Swanson Decl. ¶¶ 7, 14.)  The Court
therefore GRANTS the Motions.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
            In
connection with each Motion, Moving Defendants request $10,000 in monetary
sanctions.  (Swanson Decl. ¶ 14.)  This amount represents: eight hours preparing
each Motion at a rate of $398 per hour; five hours preparing each Motion at a
rate of $300 per hour; an anticipated three hours preparing reply papers at a
rate of $398 per hour; an anticipated three hours preparing reply papers at a
rate of $300 per hour; and an anticipated five hours reviewing each Motion and
preparing for the hearing at a rate of $687 per hour.  (See id.) 
 
            The
Court exercises its discretion and awards Moving Defendants monetary sanctions
in the total reasonable amount of $3,184, which represents eight hours
preparing the Motions collectively at a rate of $398 per hour.  (Moran v. Oso Valley Greenbelt Assn.
(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1029, 1034.) 
Plaintiff and counsel are responsible for paying this amount within 20
days of the date of this order.  
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
     Dated this 26th day of January 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


