 Case Number:  23SMCV00234    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Uzun v. City
of Santa Monica, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00234
MOTION:                  Motion
for New Trial
HEARING DATE:   6/14/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A motion for new trial is a
creature of statute . . ..” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co.¿(1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure
sections 657 and 659. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a motion for
new trial may be granted if there is any: 
 
[¶] 1. Irregularity in the
proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or
abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial… [¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law,
occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.   
 
When ruling on an application
for a new trial, the court sits as an independent trier of fact. (Lane v.
Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412.) The court, therefore, has
broad discretion to order new trials, limited only by the obligation to state
its reasons for granting a new trial and the existence of substantial evidence
in the record to support those reasons. (Ibid.) In assessing the need
for a new trial, the court must rely on its view of the overall record, taking
into account such factors, among others, as the nature and seriousness of the
alleged misconduct, the general atmosphere, including the judge’s control, of
the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and the efficacy of
objection or admonition under all the circumstances. (Dominguez v. Pantalone
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 201, 211.) 
 
The party intending to move for
a new trial must file with the clerk and serve upon each adverse party a notice
of his intention to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which
the motion will be made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or
the minutes of the court or both, either (1) “after a decision is rendered and
before the entry of judgment”; (2) “within 15 days of the date of mailing
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court . . . , or service upon
him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180
days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest”; or (3) if another
party files the first motion for new trial, “each other party shall have 15
days after the service of that notice upon him or her to file and serve a
notice of intention to move for a new trial.” (CCP § 659.) These time limits
are jurisdictional and cannot extended or waived by stipulation nor court
order. (Marriage of Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1469 [while trial judge
characterized order as one “granting reconsideration,” ruling effectively
granted new trial and was untimely].) 
 
Analysis

 
Plaintiff Guven Uzun moves for a
new trial. Plaintiff argues that the court erred and abused its discretion by:
1) not excluding the reason for the police response to plaintiff’s home and for
his arrest (domestic violence); 2) granting defendants’ motions in limine
numbers 1 and 2, thereby creating the impression that plaintiff was guilty of
committing an act of domestic violence that sent the victim to the emergency
room for medical treatment; 3) excluding the deposition testimony of Sergeant
Chun, wherein he stated that he heard the “clicking” sound of the handcuffs
tightening when plaintiff sat back in the rear seat of the police vehicle; and
4) precluding Dr. Rosabel Young from testifying entirely. (CCP § 657(1), (6),
(7).)
 
Nature-of-the-Call Evidence
 
In his motion, Plaintiff argues
that it was irrelevant why the police came to Plaintiff’s home with respect to
their alleged negligence in handcuffing Plaintiff without double-locking the
handcuffs. 
 
            “In order
to prove facts sufficient to support a finding of negligence, a plaintiff must
show that the defendant had a duty to use due care, that he breached that duty,
and that the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”
(Hayes v. Cnty. of San Diego, (2013) 57 Cal. 4th 622, 629.) In the
use-of-force context, “[t]he reasonableness of an officer’s conduct is
determined in light of the totality of circumstances.” (Id.; See Graham
v. Connor (1989) 490 U.S. 386, 396 [listing “Graham factors”]; see
also Pen. Code § 835a(a)(4); CACI 440.)
 
Here, the nature of the call was directly
relevant to the reasonableness of the officers’ decision to use force. Plaintiff
alleged that Officers Valenzuela and King were negligent when they handcuffed
him without double-locking his handcuff. To determine whether this use of force
was reasonable in such circumstances, the jury had to consider any facts
pertinent to the officer’s decision to detain, handcuff and/or arrest
Plaintiff. As Plaintiff observes, the jury had to consider whether the
officers’ negligent failure to double-lock or deliberate decision not to
double-lock was reasonable. This analysis would necessarily include examining the
domestic violence report, as this shows the level of seriousness of the crime
at issue and whether Plaintiff may or may not have posed a threat at the time –
either to the officers, or other family members. While Plaintiff disagrees that
the officers were ever in danger, that fact was for the jury to assess. 
 
Accordingly, the court finds no
error in allowing the evidence of why the officers were at Plaintiff’s home into
the record.
 
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 1 & 2
 
The Court did not err by granting
Defendants’ motions in limine nos. 1 and 2. As to MIL no. 1, the post-hoc
outcome of Plaintiff’s criminal case had no bearing on the officers’ alleged
negligence at the time of arrest. Penal Code section 851.91 does not suggest
that the Court cannot exclude such information. In fact, the sealed
nature of the action, if anything, reinforces the outcome of the case’s irrelevance.
Plaintiff also contends that there has “clearly” been unlawful access to and
disclosure of plaintiff’s sealed court records, in violation of Penal Code
section 851.92. Even if there were unlawful access, Plaintiff does not explain
how or why this fact would affect the propriety of the evidentiary rulings at
issue or the ultimate verdict.
 
As to MIL no. 2, Plaintiff presents
no reason why the court should have allowed information not known to the
arresting officers. Plaintiff does not explain why testimony from Plaintiff’s
children would have been relevant to the officers’ negligence in handcuffing
Plaintiff or any other issue in the case. Plaintiff admits that the children’s
testimony could not have influenced the officer’s decisions regarding the arrest,
as they were not interviewed by the officers.  
 
Dr. Young’s Testimony
 
Finally, the Court did not err in excluding Dr. Young’s testimony under
Evidence Code section 402. (See Sargon Enters., Inc. v. Univ. of S. Cal.,
(2012) 55 Cal. 4th 747, 771–72.) Dr. Young could not, with any degree of
medical certainty, apportion the causation between the torsion that Plaintiff
suffered at the door and the compression that Plaintiff purportedly suffered
when the handcuffs tightened in the car. (3/7/24 Trial Transcript, at
69:6–71:20.) For example, Dr. Young “still believe[d] both are a component” of
plaintiff’s injury. (Id., at 70:3–7.) Since Dr. Young was not able to apportion
causation to the alleged negligent acts, her opinion of the cause of
Plaintiff’s injury was speculative.
Moreover, Plaintiff proffered Dr. Young’s testimony in support of medical
causation. The jury did not reach the question of causation, as the jury found
that Defendants were not negligent. Therefore, Dr. Young’s testimony would not
have impacted the ultimate outcome of the trial.
Sergeant Chun’s Deposition

            Plaintiff fails to demonstrate
that the Court erred in excluding Sergeant Chun’s deposition testimony. Plaintiff
sought to present evidence that Officer Chun heard the “clicking” sound of the
handcuffs tightening when plaintiff sat back in the rear seat of the police vehicle.
Plaintiff failed to show that the testimony was admissible at the time of trial.
 
Plaintiff claims that Sergeant
Chun’s testimony was admissible under Evidence Code sections 1220 and 1224. The
hearsay exception for a party admission would not apply to this testimony because
Sergeant Chun was no longer a party. (Evid. Code §1220.) Evidence Code section 1224
does not apply because the action was not based in whole or in part upon the
liability, obligation, or duty of Sergeant Chun. Plaintiff sought liability
against the City on the individual liability of Officers Valenzuela and King,
and not on any liability, obligation, or duty of Sergeant Chun.
 
Moreover, the deposition testimony was
only relevant, if at all, to the issue of causation. Again, the jury never
reached the issue of causation. Plaintiff cannot therefore claim any prejudice
from this ruling. 
 
            Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED.