  Case Number:  23SMCP00075    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Corson, et
al., v. Widjaja, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00075
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint
HEARING DATE:   6/14/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Leave of court is required to file a compulsory
cross-complaint when it is not filed before or at the same time as the answer.
(CCP § 428.50(a), (c).) Where a party seeks leave to file a compulsory
cross-complaint, whether due to oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or
other cause, leave must be granted anytime during the course of litigation so
long as the defendant acted in good faith. (CCP § 426.50.) Leave should be
liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake
or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied
by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d
94, 99.) “[The] principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad
faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file a
cross-complaint under this section.” (Foot's Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) To establish bad faith, the
opposing party must show “actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead
or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but
rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; ... [bad faith] contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.” (Id. at 100.) While the good faith
requirement gives courts a “modicum of discretion,” the law strongly favors
granting leave. (Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710,
718.) 
 
Analysis
 
Respondent Wesley Widjaja moves for
an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint against Respondent/Cross-Defendant
Ananthan Thangavel. Widjaja seeks liability against Thangavel for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. 
 
On April 23, 2024, in conjunction
with his answer to the operative pleading, Widjaja attempted to file a
cross-complaint asserting causes of action for implied and equitable indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. (Maatta Decl.) The court filing system
rejected the cross-complaint. The court clerk informed Respondent’s counsel
that he must seek leave to file a cross-complaint. Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.50(a) states that “a party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.”
“Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a
date for trial.” (Id., §428.50(b).) 
 
In light of these statutes, Widjaja
timely presented the cross-complaint for filing with the answer to the operative
pleading. To the extent that leave is required, the court grants leave to file
the proposed cross-complaint. (Id., § 428.50(c).) 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  Widjaja shall file the cross complaint by
June 18, 2024.
 