 Case Number:  22SMCV01585    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01585




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant State Compensation Insurance Fund




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainant 4711 Berryman, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Francisco Barron (“Plaintiff”) worked for FR Construction,
Inc. (“FR Construction”, as a laborer.  In
August or September of 2020, FR Construction secured a “job” at 4711 Berryman
Ave in Culver City, California.  The
owner of the property at that time was 4711 Berryman LLC (“Berryman”). 
 
On September 16 2020, Plaintiff and other workers were instructed to
fix some tile, pipes and grout. The work was situated on the exterior of the project
about 10 feet above ground level. There was no scaffolding or ladders present.  Rodriguez directed the workers to place
several garbage bins in a line and place wooden planks across the garbage bins
so that the workers could reach the work area. While working on top of the
planks, on top of garbage bins, the contraption gave way.  Plaintiff was on top of one area and fell to
ground about 8 feet and landed on his leg, breaking it.  
 
FR Construction and Francisco Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”), the principal
of FR Construction, did not maintain either workers’ compensation insurance or general
liability insurance, among other alleged shortcomings in their business
practices.  Plaintiff filed suit against
FR Construction, Rodriguez and Berryman on September 15, 2022 alleging various
claims under the Labor Code including a failure to maintain workers'
compensation insurance coverage.  
 
In turn, on July 24, 2023, Berryman filed a Cross-Complaint alleging
seven causes of action for (1) indemnity; (2) apportionment of fault; (3)
comparative fault; (4) declaratory relief; (5) intentional misrepresentation;
(6) negligent misrepresentation; and (7) negligence.  On February 5, 2024, Berryman filed a Roe
Amendment, naming Cross-Defendant State Compensation Insurance Fund (“State”)
as Roe 1.  
 
State now demurs to the first, second, third, fourth, and seventh[1]
causes of action on the grounds that they each fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, and are uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively.  The fifth and sixth causes of action are
alleged as to Cross-Defendants Icon Remodeling, Inc. and Yoni Eliyahu
only.  State also moves to strike the
second, third, and fourth causes of action as “irrelevant and improper.”  
 
Berryman opposes both motions and State has filed a combined reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, the crux of the Cross-Complaint is that Berryman, the owner of
the property under construction, seeks indemnity/contribution from the
contractor and subcontractor for maintaining lax safety standards at the
construction site and failing to carry worker’s compensation insurance for
workers like the plaintiff.  State, a
worker’s compensation insurance company, was brought into the lawsuit after the
fact, via a Roe amendment.  However, the
Cross-Complaint alleges “Plaintiff alleges […] that his injuries were not
covered by workers’ comp insurance because Cross-Complainant and
Cross-Defendants failed to carry any.” 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.)  Thus,
pursuant to the allegations of the Cross-Complaint, State is a worker’s
compensation insurance carrier that was not engaged to provide coverage for the
plaintiff.
 
As such, there appears no basis in the Cross-Complaint to hold State
liable for indemnity, apportionment of fault, or comparative fault.  Similarly, it is unclear what basis Berryman has
for its request for declaratory relief as to State, or how State could have
“owed a duty to Cross-Complainant to follow all applicable statutes, rules, and
regulations for the renovations and construction at the Subject Property and to
carry the necessary and appropriate insurance, including workers’ comp
insurance.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 52.) As an
insurer, State would not have been renovating or constructing anything at the
subject property, nor would State be carrying insurance.  At best, State would be providing the
insurance.  But because the other
Cross-Defendants are alleged to not have carried any worker’s compensation
insurance to cover the plaintiff, State was apparently also not the insurance
provider for the project.  Thus, based on
the allegations of the Cross-Complaint, it is unclear what connection State
would have to the underlying litigation at all.
 
Therefore, although demurrers for uncertainty are typically
disfavored, here, the existing allegations simply do not appear to apply to
State at all.  As such, it is unclear
what wrongdoing State is alleged to have done. 
Because the Cross-Complaint is alleged as to all “Cross-Defendants,” it
is too difficult to discern what allegations are alleged as to State, who, as an
insurer, is differently situated than the contractors and subcontractors on the
project, for whom the existing allegations make more sense.
 
Accordingly, the Court sustains State’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Because the Court sustains the demurrer, it denies State’s motion to
strike as moot.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Berryman points out in opposition that State insured
Cross-Defendant Icon Remodeling Inc., the alleged general contractor, who then
engaged FR Construction as a subcontractor on the construction project.  Thus, the question is whether Berryman may be
able to assert allegations that the coverage provided by State to the general
contractor would apply to a subcontractor’s injured employee such as Plaintiff.  At this stage of the litigation, the Court
finds that the answer is Yes and therefore, Berryman should be afforded the
opportunity to amend the cross-complaint. 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains State’s demurrer in its
entirety with leave to amend.  Berryman
may file and serve an amended Cross-Complaint consistent with this ruling on or
before May 23, 2024. 
 
Further, having sustained the demurrer, the Court denies State’s
Motion to Strike as moot.  
 
State shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 24, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


