  Case Number:  20SMCV00776    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV00776




MOTION


Motion to Tax Costs




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Advanced Orthopedic Center, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants and Cross-Complainants California Physicians’
  Service dba Blue Shield of California and Blue Shield of California Life
  & Health Insurance Company



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves three
consolidated lawsuits in which Plaintiff Advanced Orthopedic Center, Inc.
(“Plaintiff” or “AOC”) brought claims against Defendants California Physicians’
Service dba Blue Shield of California and Blue Shield of California Life &
Health Insurance Company (“Defendants” or “Blue Shield”) for quantum meruit and
breach of implied contract, and Blue Shield’s cross-claims against AOC for
declaratory relief, relating to 31 patient claims.  
 
Following a bench trial, the Court
issued a statement of decision ruling in favor of Blue Shield as to all 31
patients at issue.  Judgment was entered
in favor of Blue Shield on August 25, 2023. 

 
On September 14, 2023, Blue Shield
filed a memorandum of costs, seeking $498,617, composed of $2,190 in filing and
motion fees; $33,303.90 in deposition costs; $26,974.88 in service of process fees;
$373,341.57 in witness fees; $27,788.87 in court reporter fees; $1,493.50 for
models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits; $549.40 in electronic
filing/service fees; and $32,974.88 in “other” costs, consisting of $32,378.88
for Trial Technician costs; $420 for attorney and trial staff lunches; and $176
in parking costs.
 
AOC now moves to tax Blue Shield’s
requested costs.  Blue Shield opposes the
motion and AOC replies.
 
EVIDENCE
 
            Blue Shield
objects to the Declaration of Alan Nesbit filed with AOC’s reply brief and to
AOC’s “Response to Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Alan Nesbit,” which
Blue Shield characterizes as an improper sur-reply.  Two days after the reply was filed, AOC also
filed a “Request for Judicial Notice in Response to Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Alan Nesbit” requesting judicial notice of various small claims
judgments between AOC and Blue Shield.
 
            The Court
does not generally consider reply evidence, as such deprives the opposing party
of a fair opportunity to respond.  (San
Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
308, 316 [“due process requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be
addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to
prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)  
 
            AOC argues
that because it challenged Blue Shield’s memorandum and put certain claimed
costs at issue, the burden shifted to Blue Shield to support its claimed costs,
and AOC was in no position to address those arguments until the repl.  Thus, AOC contends that the reply evidence
regarding the small claims cases should be allowed.
 
            The Court notes
that AOC raised the issue in its moving papers that Blue Shield’s settlement
offer was unreasonably low and made in bad faith.  Therefore, AOC had an obligation to raise the
issue of the small claims cases and to present evidence in connection with the
motion, which it did not do. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains Blue Shield’s objection to the entire reply declaration of Alan
Nesbit as procedurally improper.  Because
the Court does not consider the reply declaration, it similarly does not
consider Blue Shield’s specific evidentiary objections to the reply declaration
or AOC’s responses to Blue Shield’s specific objections.  
 
For the same reasons, the Court also
denies AOC’s Request for Judicial Notice that was submitted two days after the
Reply brief was filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
“Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) 
“Prevailing party” includes, among other things, “a defendant where
neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against
those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, subdivision (a) sets forth items that are allowable as costs. Allowable
costs under Section 1033.5 must be “reasonably necessary to the conduct of this
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation” and
“reasonable in amount.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2)-(3).) “Items
not mentioned in [Section 1033.5] and items assessed upon application may be
allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.” (Id. at subd. (c)(4).)
 
On a motion to tax, “[i]f the items
appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the
party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.
On the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. Whether a cost
item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for
the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion. However, because
the right to costs is governed strictly by statute a court has no discretion to
award costs not statutorily authorized.” (Ladas v. California State Auto.
Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774, internal citations omitted.) 
 
“The court’s first determination,
therefore, is whether the statute expressly allows the item, and whether it
appears proper on its face. If so, the burden is on the objecting party to show
them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 131, internal citations omitted.)  The objecting party does not meet this burden
by arguing that the costs were not necessary or reasonable, but must present
evidence and prove that the costs are not recoverable.  (Litt v. Eisenhower Med. Ctr. (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1224; Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Because
this case involves three consolidated cases, Blue Shield is a defendant,
cross-claimant, and plaintiff, and AOC is a plaintiff, cross-defendant, and
defendant.  Essentially, AOC sought
additional reimbursements from Blue Shield for care provided to various Blue
Shield insureds, and Blue Shield sought declaratory relief that the amounts
Blue Shield already paid AOC either equal or exceed the fair market value of
those services.  
 
            Regardless
of the parties’ statuses as “plaintiff” or “defendant,” Blue Shield prevailed
in every regard.  The judgment provided
that AOC takes nothing by way of its complaints and the Court declared that the
amount Blue Shield reimbursed Plaintiff either equals or exceeds the fair
market value of the services AOC provided.
 
            Thus, as
the party in whose favor judgment was entered following trial, Blue Shield is
the “prevailing party” and is generally entitled to recover its costs.   AOC does
not dispute that, but argues that certain costs Blue Shield seeks are
excessive.  Specifically, AOC challenges
the following costs:
 
(1)  
$280,247.05 in “expert witness fees;”
(2)  
$26,974.88 in process server fees for witnesses who
were not called to testify or deposed;
(3)  
Costs for exhibits not used at trial; and 
(4)  
$32,378.88 in miscellaneous costs for “live trial tech
assistance.”
 
Entitlement to Expert Witness
Fees
 
            Expert
witness fees are generally not allowable as costs under Section 1032, unless
ordered by the Court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1033.5.)
 
            However, Code
of Civil Procedure section 998 augments Section 1032 to allow for the recovery
of some expert witness fees in situations where a settlement offer was presented
and rejected.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 998,
subd. (a) [“The costs allowed under Sections 1031 and 1032 shall be withheld or
augmented as provided in this section”].) 
Specifically:
 
(c) (1) If an offer made by a
defendant is not accepted and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable
judgment or award, the plaintiff shall not recover his or her postoffer costs
and shall pay the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer. In addition, in
any action or proceeding other than an eminent domain action, the court or
arbitrator, in its discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable
sum to cover postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are not
regular employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary in
either, or both, preparation for trial or arbitration, or during trial or
arbitration, of the case by the defendant.
 
[…]
 
(d) If an offer made by a plaintiff is
not accepted and the defendant fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or
award in any action or proceeding other than an eminent domain action, the
court or arbitrator, in its discretion, may require the defendant to pay a
reasonable sum to cover postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses,
who are not regular employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably
necessary in either, or both, preparation for trial or arbitration, or during
trial or arbitration, of the case by the plaintiff, in addition to plaintiff’s
costs.
 
(Id. at subds. (c)-(d).)  
 
            However “[a]n
offeree cannot be expected to accept an unreasonable offer.”  (Elrod v. Oregon Cummins Diesel, Inc.
(1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 692, 699.)  Thus,
for purposes of section 998, the settlement offer must have been
“reasonable.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, Blue
Shield served AOC a section 998 Offer to Compromise on February 2, 2023 to
settle the cases for $30,000 over and above the $26,033 Blue Shield had already
reimbursed AOC for the 31 patients at issue, with each party to pay its own
costs and fees.  (Nesbit Decl. ¶ 4;[1] Fogarty
Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. 1 at ¶¶ 1, 3; Statement of Decision, August 3, 2023.)  
 
AOC argues that Blue Shield’s offer
was not made in good faith because (1) it was unrealistically low; (2) AOC “had
been almost uniformly successful in his previous lawsuits against Blue Cross
for similar emergent billing disputes[;]” and (3) Blue Shield’s offer was made
before any depositions had been taken, so AOC did not have the necessary
information to adequately evaluate the offer at the time it was made.  
 
Blue Shield counters that the offer
was made in good faith, because: 
 
1.    
Goel v. Regal (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1054,
1064-65 held that the market value of medical services is 150% of Medicare and Long
Beach Memorial Medical Center v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2021)
71 Cal.App.5th 323 held that the reasonable market value is determined by what
buyers negotiate in the free market, and is not dependent upon the factors that
ultimately became sticking points for AOC, such as the provider’s billed
charges, rental network agreements, or small claims judgments/settlements.
 
2.    
Prior to making its offer, Blue Shield provided AOC its
claims data and benchmark analysis, demonstrating what Blue Shield paid
contracted providers, Medicare, other non-contracted providers like AOC, and out-of-network
emergency fee schedule rates, demonstrating the $26,033 already paid
represented 240% of Medicare, 175% of the contracted rate for in-network
providers, and 193% of the rate it provides other non-contracted providers.  (Fogarty Decl. ¶¶ 8-10 and Ex. 4.)
 
3.    
Also prior to Blue Shield’s offer, AOC took a
deposition of Blue Shield’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK”), obtaining testimony
regarding the relevant benchmark data, which was an exhibit at the deposition.
(Fogarty Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. 3.)
 
4.    
Blue Shield also served its expert witness disclosure
statement, which included their respective expert witness fees and areas of
testimony, prior to making its settlement offer to AOC.  (Fogarty Decl. ¶ 20 and Ex. 10.)
 
AOC argues for the first time in
reply that at the time Blue Shield made its offer of $30,000 (plus the $26,033
already paid), it already owed AOC $52,020.86 by virtue of several small claims
cases (not included in the 31 patient claims at issue here), and Blue Shield’s
offer “arguably” encompassed those small claims cases by virtue of Blue
Shield’s declaratory relief claims.  
 
But AOC does not explain how the
small claims cases are “arguably” encompassed by Blue Shield’s declaratory
relief claim.  As the statement of
decision indicates, “In Blue Shield’s affirmative action (Case No.
22STCV03670), and on its remaining cause of action for declaratory relief, the
Court declares that Blue Shield has already reimbursed AOC at amounts that
either equal or exceed the fair market value of the medical services provided
to the 31 patients at issue[.]”  As such,
the ultimate relief Blue Shield obtained upon prevailing on its declaratory
relief claim encompassed only the 31 patients at issue here.  AOC has not provided any evidence
demonstrating that the small claims cases were ever part of this litigation.  
 
In reply, AOC also states,
“Unfortunately, Hon Alison Mackenzie allowed those small claims to be heard in
the trial and they are at this time subject to an appeal as AOC does not
believe the Court had the jurisdiction to hear small claims cases that had been
decided in the first instance and remained to be heard on appeal.” (Reply at p.
3.)  But AOC does not cite to any court
transcript, order, or other evidence from the record to support its statement
that the small claims cases were part of the trial.  And on its face, the statement of decision
applies to case numbers 20SMCV00776, 22STCV03670, and 21CHLC13243, none of
which are classified as small claims.
 
Yet, AOC may be responding to pages
11-12 of Blue Shield’s opposition, where Blue Shield explains that the parties “tentatively
agreed” to treat this case as a Bellwether and “apply the determination at this
trial as to the market value for AOC’s services to the parties’ current and
future disputes.”  Specifically, Blue
Shield explains that “as early as January 2023, Dr. Nissanoff himself proposed
that the decision at trial would ‘apply not only for the specific codes [tried
in that case], but for all cpt codes based on her decision making process”
and that ‘th[e] idea works well for both parties as it creates closure
for all emergent future claims.’” 
(Opposition at p. 12:4-8 [quoting Ex. 28 to Maurer Decl.].)
 
But the parties’ tentative
agreement to apply the Court’s decision to determine the value of all
outstanding and future disputes between them does not “arguably” create an
inference that Blue Shield’s Section 998 offer also encompassed the small
claims cases, contrary to the plain language of the offer.
 
Therefore, AOC has not demonstrated
that Blue Shield’s offer was unreasonably low or made in bad faith.
 
Ultimately, the record shows that at
the time Blue Shield made its offer, AOC had the data upon which Blue Shield
based its valuation of the 31 patient claims at issue, as well as the case law
supporting Blue Shield’s position, yet AOC still disputed the value of the
claims, based largely upon its prior track record in small claims court, and thus
chose to reject Blue Shield’s Section 998 offer, knowing full well the
cost-shifting implications, should AOC ultimately recover less than the offer.  AOC has therefore not met its burden to
demonstrate that Blue Shield’s offer of compromise was unreasonable or made in
bad faith.
 
Reasonableness of Expert
Witness Fees Sought
 
AOC argues that the $280,247.05 in
expert witness fees for work performed by other employees at expert witness
Bruce Deal’s company, Analysis Group, are improper.  AOC also objects to the experts’ expenses to
travel from Northern California and South Carolina to Los Angeles for the
trial, arguing that Blue Shield should have hired Los Angeles based expert
witnesses.  In reply, AOC also argues for
the first time that the hourly rate for Bruce Deal listed on the memorandum of
costs ($927) is higher than his rate listed on the expert witness designation
($890).  AOC also points out that the
rates for all Analysis Group employees listed on the Memorandum of Costs are
lower than the rates listed in the Analysis Group invoice.
 
Courts may properly award fees
incurred by a testifying expert’s staff. 
(Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 102, 124 [Trial court did not abuse its discretion in awarding “separately
itemized charges for staff economists and other skilled employees who helped”
the expert prepare for trial].)  Thus,
there is nothing inherently improper about the $280,247.05 sought for time spent
by Mr. Deal’s staff (at lower hourly rates than Mr. Deal’s).
 
Nor has AOC provided any legal
support for its argument that Blue Shield should have obtained local expert
witnesses.  Blue Shield disclosed its
expert witnesses, their hourly rates, and their respective locations prior to
making the Section 998 offer to compromise. 
Thus, AOC was fully aware of the risk of paying these expert witnesses’
travel expenses for trial when it rejected Blue Shield’s offer. 
 
With respect to the hourly rates, the
Court sees no issue with Blue Shield requesting reimbursement for less than the
amounts they were actually charged by Analysis Group.  Thus, the fact that the expert rates on the
billing invoices are higher than those sought in the memorandum of costs is
immaterial.
 
As for Mr. Deal’s rate being higher
on the memorandum of costs than was disclosed in the expert witness disclosure
available to AOC at the time of the Section 998 offer, AOC has not met its
burden to present evidence that the fees sought are not recoverable, because
the Nesbit declaration submitted in support of the motion did not include a
copy of Blue Shield’s expert witness disclosure, and AOC did not raise the
argument until the reply.  Nonetheless,
because Blue Shield submitted the disclosure as part of its opposition
evidence, the Court can confirm that Mr. Deal’s rate listed on the memorandum
of costs is indeed higher than the rate disclosed to AOC at the time Blue
Shield made its Section 998 offer.  Fairness
dictates AOC should only be responsible to pay the rate it was aware of at the
time it rejected Blue Shield’s offer.  As
such, the Court reduces Mr. Deal’s hourly rate from the $927 claimed to the
$890 disclosed, effectively reducing the $39,212.10 sought for the 42.30 hours
of Mr. Deal’s time by $1,565.10 to $37,647.
 
            Reasonableness
of Fees for Serving Witnesses Not Called to Testify 
 
AOC contends that the $26,974.88
costs incurred to serve each of the 31 patients at issue were not reasonably
necessary to the litigation, because their medical records were ultimately
obtained from subpoenas to their respective hospitals and none of the patients
were ultimately called to testify or deposed. 

 
Blue Shield counters that, in order
to obtain the underlying medical records, Blue Shield had to personally serve
each patient with the consumer notice required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1985.3 and also personally serve each of the medical providers with a
subpoena and proof that it had personally served each patient with the
requisite notice.
 
AOC argues in reply that Blue
Shield already had the medical records, as they were submitted to Blue Shield
when they were first billed, and Plaintiff ultimately produced them in
discovery.  
 
AOC has not provided any legal
support for its argument that service of process costs are not allowed if the
records are ultimately obtained from another source.  Moreover, in light of the notice requirements
of Section 1985.3, the Court finds that service on each patient was reasonably
necessary for Blue Shield to seek and obtain the relevant medical records from
the hospitals.
 
Exhibit Costs
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, subdivision (a)(13) expressly allows costs for “Models, the
enlargements of exhibits and photocopies of exhibits, and the electronic
presentation of exhibits, including costs of rental equipment and electronic
formatting, may be allowed if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of
fact.”
 
AOC first argues that costs
incurred to prepare exhibits that were ultimately not used at trial were also
not reasonably necessary to the litigation, but AOC does not identify any
exhibits that were not used for trial, or specify the costs associated with exhibits
that were not ultimately used.  
 
AOC also argues that the
preparation of exhibits is a job for a paralegal, and therefore all exhibit
costs should be excluded.  But Section
1033.5 expressly allows the recovery of the cost of exhibits “reasonably
helpful to aid the trier of fact.”  
 
            Reasonableness
of “Other” Trial Tech Fees
 
AOC finally challenges the
$32,378.88 in “other” costs sought for “Trial Technician.”  Specifically, the memorandum explains these
costs were incurred for “On the Record: Ken Kotarski and staff. Live trial tech
assistance, display of exhibits, etc. Create and revise opening statement and
closing argument power points. Create and revise power point demonstratives for
Blue Shield witnesses[.]”  With respect
to these costs, AOC simply argues “these are internal (paralegal or similar)
items of internal costs and are not compensable.”
 
            Blue Shield
provides several authorities in support of its request.  (See, e.g., Green v. County of Riverside (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1373-1374 [approving costs for technician to “monitor …
equipment and quickly resolve any glitches”]; Bender v. County of Los
Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 990-991 [costs incurred for personnel
to create and support PowerPoint presentations are recoverable.])  Moreover, Blue Shield has provided On the
Record’s itemized invoices, supporting the requested amount.  (Fogarty Decl. ¶ 19 and Ex. 9.)
 
            In Reply
AOC cites to a nearly thirty-year-old case, in which the appellate court disclaimed
the use of “high-tech litigation” that exceeds the amount at issue in the case,
explaining, “If a party litigant chooses unwisely to expend monies in trial
presentation in excess of the value of the case, utilizing advanced methods of
information storage, retrieval and display, when more conventional if less
impressive methods are available, the party must stand on its own costs.”  (Science Applications Inter. Corp. v.
Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1095, 1103-1105 [hereafter Science
Applications.)  
 
            While digital
trial demonstratives may have been “high tech” in 1995, PowerPoint is now a
commonplace tool, and courtrooms are routinely equipped with camera and monitor
equipment by default.  The use and
proliferation of technological tools in the courtroom is especially pronounced
following the COVID-19 pandemic, during which many court proceedings were
conducted entirely remotely.
 
            Although $32,378.88
in trial technician costs may, at first glance appear to be high, it encompasses
thirty-four hours of in-courtroom tech support for the trial that lasted six
days. Moreover, it is AOC’s position that the case was worth $125,000.  (Reply at p. 2:27.)  Thus, the amount Blue Shield spent on
PowerPoint tech during the trial does not exceed the amount at issue in this
case, as it did in Science Applications.
 
            Therefore,
AOC has not provided a legal or factual basis to tax the requested trial tech
support costs.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part
and denies in part AOC’s motion to tax costs. 
The Court taxes $1,565.10 in costs sought for expert witness Bruce
Deal’s time, representing a decrease in Mr. Deal’s rate to the $890 hourly rate
represented in Blue Shield’s expert witness disclosure.  AOC’s motion is denied in all other respects.
 
Although AOC filed the motion to
tax costs, the Court orders Blue Shield to file and serve a proposed order in
conformance with the Court’s ruling forthwith, and provide notice of the
Court’s ruling.  
 
 
DATED: 
April 25, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


