 Case Number:  22SMCV01184    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01184




MOTION


Expunge Lis Pendens




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, as Trustee
  for Stanwich Mortgage Loan Trust




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, as trustee for
Stanwich Mortgage Loan Trust (“Defendant”) purchased the property at issue at a
trustee’s sale, following the prior owner’s loan default.  Defendant previously filed two unlawful
detainer actions against Plaintiffs Kasra Vahmi and Bersadeh Bagheri
(“Plaintiffs”), who are currently in possession of the property.  The first action, 19SMUD00192, was
dismissed.  This unlawful detainer action
then gave rise to a malicious prosecution action filed by Plaintiffs,
20SMCV00691, which is still ongoing.
 
Defendant subsequently filed a second unlawful detainer action,
19SMUD02217, which culminated with a jury trial.  The jury returned a verdict in Defendant’s
favor, finding Plaintiffs did not have a right to possess the property.  In that action, Plaintiffs argued they had
the right to possess the subject property as bona fide tenants under the
Protecting Tenants at Foreclosure Act (“PTFA”). 
Plaintiffs filed an appeal which is pending.
 
Plaintiffs filed suit in this action on July 25, 2022, bringing causes
of action for quiet title, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief, largely
reiterating arguments already raised in the unlawful detainer action.  Notably, the complaint directly references
and critiques the unlawful detainer action. (See Complaint ¶ 15 [“UD2
proceeded to trial, where the judge gave an erroneous instruction to the
jury….”].)  The Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint, on the basis that Plaintiffs’ right to
possession had already been litigated in the prior unlawful detainer action,
but granted Plaintiffs leave to amend to pursue a theory that they had a
contractual right to purchase the property.
 
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint, to which Defendant
demurred.  The Court sustained
Defendant’s demurrer on the basis that Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint made
clear that Plaintiffs were improperly attempting to relitigate the issues
already decided in the unlawful detainer action.  The Court noted that “Plaintiff’s claim to a
right to purchase the property stems from their status as bonafide tenants
under PTFA” which had already “been extensively litigated in the 19SMUD02217
action.”  (See April 11, 2023 Minute
Order at p. 4.)  The Court also noted
that the FAC again “attacks the validity of the jury verdict reached in the
19SMUD02217 action[.]”  (Ibid.)  The Court did not grant Plaintiffs further
leave to amend, on the ground that it is Plaintiffs’ burden to demonstrate how
they could amend the complaint.  But
Plaintiffs failed to meet that burden.
 
On August 17, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to expunge
lis pendens, finding Plaintiffs had failed to meet the “heavy burden” of
establishing that the Court’s ruling granting Defendant’s demurrer to the first
amended complaint would “probably” be reversed. 
(Minute Order, Aug. 17, 2023.)
On September 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Petition for Write of
Mandate from the order expunging the lis pendens.  On September 20, 2023, the Court denied
Plaintiffs’ petition.[1]
 
On November 30, 2023, without leave from this Court or the Court of
Appeal, Plaintiffs sua sponte recorded another Lis Pendens as Instrument No.
20230828171.  (Wozniak Decl. ¶ 16 and Ex.
10.)
 
On March 21, 2024, the Court of Appeal denied Defendant’s motion to
expunge the lis pendens “without prejudice to respondent’s right to bring the
motion in the superior court.”  (Wozniak
Decl. ¶ 17 and Ex. 11.)
 
Defendant now moves this Court for an order expunging Plaintiffs’ new
lis pendens and for sanctions. 
Defendant’s motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 405.20 provides: “A party to an action who asserts a real property
claim may record a notice of pendency of action in which that real property
claim is alleged. The notice may be recorded in the office of the recorder of
each county in which all or part of the real property is situated. The notice
shall contain the names of all parties to the action and a description of the
property affected by the action.”  
 
“A lis pendens is a
recorded document giving constructive notice that an action has been filed
affecting title to or right to possession of the real property described in the
notice.”  (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004)
33 Cal.4th 642, 647.)  “[T]he filing of a
lis pendens usually clouds the title to the property and prevents its transfer
until the litigation is resolved or the lis pendens is expunged.”  (Malcolm v. Superior Court (1981) 29
Cal.3d 518, 523.)
 
“A court shall order
expungement of a lis pendens if the pleading on which the lis pendens is based
does not state a real property claim, if the claimant fails to establish the
probable validity of the claim on which the lis pendens is based, or if the
giving of an undertaking would secure adequate relief to the claimant.  A nonstatutory ground also exists, such that
a party alleging a lis pendens is void and invalid for defective service may
move for expungement on that basis.”  (Rey
Sanchez Investments v. Superior Court (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 259, 263
[cleaned up].)
 
            Further, “[t]he court shall order
the notice expunged if the court finds that the pleading on which the notice is
based does not contain a real property claim.  In making this determination, the  court must engage in a demurrer-like
analysis. Rather than analyzing whether the pleading states any claim at all,
as on a general demurrer, the court must undertake the more limited analysis of
whether the pleading states a real property claim.  Review involves only a review of the adequacy
of the pleading and normally should not involve evidence from either side,
other than possibly that which may be judicially noticed as on a demurrer.  Therefore, review of an expungement order
under section 405.31 is limited to whether a real property claim has been
properly pled by the claimant.”  (Kirkeby
v. Superior Court, supra, 33 Cal.4th at pp. 642, 647–648 [cleaned
up].)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     LIS
PENDENS
 
Once
a lis pendens has been expunged, the claimant may not record another lis
pendens as to the affected property without leave of the court in which the
action is pending.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.36.)
 
Here,
that is precisely what Plaintiffs did.  (Wozniak
Decl. ¶ 16 and Ex. 10.)  Therefore,
finding that Plaintiffs filed another Lis Pendens on the subject property
without leave of the Court after this Court expunged the prior Lis Pendens, the
Court grants Defendant’s motion and expunges the new Lis Pendens.
 
2.     ATTORNEYS’
FEES AND COSTS
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38, “the court shall
direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded
the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion
unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney's
fees and costs unjust.”
 
Defendant requests $3,160.00 in attorneys’ fees and costs associated
with bringing this Motion, representing 4.5 hours to draft the Motion to
Expunge filed with the Court of Appeal, 1.5 hours to revise the Motion and
supporting documents to submit to this Court, and an anticipated 2 hours to
prepare a reply brief at a rate of $395 per hour.  (Wozniak Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiffs did not act with substantial
justification in recording the second lis pendens on the subject property
without prior leave of the Court.  Therefore,
the Court grants Defendant’s request in part and awards Defendant’s reasonable
attorneys’ fees to prepare the motion in the amount of $1,975, representing 5
hours of attorney time at a rate of $395 per hour. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Defendant’s unopposed motion
to expunge the second lis pendens recorded against the subject property without
prior leave from this Court.
 
Further, the Court orders Plaintiffs to pay Defendant’s reasonable
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $1,975 to Defendant, by and through counsel
for Defendant, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s orders.
 
Separately, the Court will modify and enter the proposed Order in
accordance with its ruling.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice
of the Court’s orders and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  April 25, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


