  Case Number:  19STCV12070    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19STCV12070




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Muranaka Farm, Harry Toshiaki Muranaka, Roy Muranaka, Janie Muranaka, and
  Carolyn Muranaka




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Miguel Magdaleno



 BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Miguel
Magdaleno (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Muranaka Farm, Harry Toshiaki Muranaka
(“Harry”), Roy Muranaka (“Roy”), Janie Muranaka (“Janie”), and Carolyn Muranaka
(“Carolyn”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for breach of contract.  In the operative first amended complaint,
Plaintiff alleges he loaned Muranaka Farm $500,000 with no interest to assist
with Muranaka Farm’s business, which was heavily in debt (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 11); Muranaka Farm then hired Plaintiff to work as its general manager, and
agreed to pay Plaintiff 50% of Muranaka Farm’s profits (ibid.); Defendants
refused to pay Plaintiff the profits of Muranaka Farm, and instead terminated
Plaintiff’s employment (id., ¶ 14). 

Defendants move
for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of issues. 
After Defendants filed this motion, Plaintiff agreed to dismiss the
second and eighth causes of action.  The
motion is, therefore, moot as to those causes of action.  
In its order of
July 15, 2024, the Court continued the matter for Defendants to correct
procedural deficiencies with their moving papers.  Defendants filed corrected documents, which
the Court now considers.  While Plaintiff
contends Defendants’ amended separate statement fails to correct the issues the
Court identified in its order of July 15, 2024, the Court finds Defendants’
amended separate statement substantially complies with the Court’s order, and
the Court exercises its discretion to consider it.  (Brown v. El Dorado Union High School Dist.
(2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1019-1020.)
In its order of
August 27, 2024, the Court continued the matter to this date, as counsel for
Plaintiff, Brett L. Francisco (“Francisco”) represented he was ineligible to
practice law.  Counsel reported the State
Bar of California soon thereafter reinstated Counsel’s eligibility.  As Counsel is now eligible to practice law,
the Court considers the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections Nos. 1, 8, 9, and 14 are sustained.  Plaintiff’s other objections are overruled. 
Defendants’
evidentiary objections to Plaintiff’s Declaration, paragraphs 7, 11, 12, 15, 18,
19, 23, 27, 29, 34, 39, 43, 44, 46, and 48 are sustained.  Defendants’ other evidentiary objections are
overruled.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action:  Breach of Contract
            Plaintiff
alleges that, in 2014, Plaintiff entered into an agreement with Muranaka Farm,
Harry, and Roy, that Muranaka farm would hire Plaintiff as its general manager,
and Muranaka Farm would pay Plaintiff 50% of its profits.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff alleges Muranaka Farm, Harry, and
Roy breached this agreement by failing to pay Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶ 17.)  
Defendants contend
Plaintiff cannot prevail because the statute of frauds bars Plaintiff’s
claim.   The statute of frauds provides that a contract
that falls under it is invalid unless memorialized in writing and signed by the
party against whom the contract is to be enforced. (Civ. Code, § 1624.)  An agreement that cannot, by its terms, be
performed within one year is subject to the statute of frauds. (Civ. Code, §
1624, subd. (a)(1).)  In response to
Defendants’ discovery, Plaintiff stated the parties orally agreed that
Plaintiff’s employment with Muranaka Farm would last at least ten years.  (Declaration of Artyom Baghdishyan, Exhibit D,
p. 52.)  The parties’ agreement is,
therefore, unenforceable unless memorialized in a writing Defendants signed.
(Civ. Code, § 1624, subd. (a).)  However,
Plaintiff alleges he completely performed under the contract.  Where the contract has been fully performed by
one party, the remaining promise is taken out of the statute such that the
party who performed may enforce the contract against the other party.  (See Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
431, 454 [allegation plaintiff “fully performed all of his obligations under
the alleged oral or implied-in-fact contract was sufficient to take the contract
out of the statue of frauds”]; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 1972, subd. (a) [although
in context of an interest in real property, partial performance of a contract
takes the contract out of the statute of frauds].)  Defendants concede Plaintiff began working for
Muranaka Farm after the purported oral agreement between the parties.  (Declaration of Charles Muranaka, ¶ 8.)  Therefore, at a minimum, the parties
partially performed the agreement.  As
such, Defendants fail to meet their burden to show the statute of frauds bars
Plaintiff’s claim for breach of an oral contract.  
Defendants also
argue Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for breach of contract because the
parties did not orally agree Plaintiff would receive 50% of Muranaka Farm’s
profits.  Defendants advance the declaration
of Chiaki Harami (“Harami”), who is the chief financial officer for Muranaka
Farm.  Harami states Plaintiff asked Muranaka
Farm for a regular salary and benefits, to which Muranaka Farm agreed.  (Declaration of Chiaki Harami, ¶ 12.)  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on the first cause of action for breach of oral
agreement, because the parties did not reach an oral agreement on the terms
Plaintiff alleges.  Thus, Defendants
shift the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Plaintiff can prevail on the first cause of action.
            Plaintiff
advances his own testimony in opposition. 
Plaintiff states he agreed with Harry that Plaintiff would receive 50%
of the profits for Muranaka Farm while Plaintiff worked as its general
manager.  (Declaration of Miguel
Magdaleno (filed August 15, 2024), ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff’s evidence raises triable issues of fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on his first cause of action.
Third Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
In a claim for
quantum meruit, “[e]ven if the entire contract was illegal and unenforceable, a
plaintiff may recover the reasonable value of services rendered provided that
those particular services were not legally prohibited.” (MKB Management,
Inc. v. Melikian (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 796, 805.)  In support of this claim, Plaintiff alleges
Muranaka Farm failed to pay Plaintiff for services he rendered as its general
manager.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 24-27.)  Defendants present evidence Plaintiff asked Muranaka
Farm for a regular salary and benefits, which Muranaka Farm agreed to and did pay
Plaintiff, accordingly.  (Harami Decl., ¶
12.)  This evidence meets Defendants’
burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for quantum meruit because
Defendants paid Plaintiff the sums due to him. 
Defendants, thus, have shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable
issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on this claim.
            Plaintiff
again advances his own testimony in opposition. 
He states Muranaka Farm paid him. only $320 per week.  (Magdaleno Decl., ¶ 24.)  A triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether $320 per week represents the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s services
to Muranaka Farm.  Plaintiff’s evidence,
therefore, has raised a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff can
prevail on his third cause of action.
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action:
Failure to Pay All Wages Due
Plaintiff alleges Muranaka
Farm failed to pay Plaintiff all wages and other compensation that were due
when Plaintiff left his employment with Muranaka Farm.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 32, 38.)  Again, Defendants advance evidence that Plaintiff
asked Muranaka Farm for a regular salary and benefits, which were paid to him.  (Harami Decl., ¶ 12.)  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on his fourth and fifth causes of action because
Defendants have paid the sums due to Plaintiff. 
Thus, the burden has shifted to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on the causes of action for
failure to pay all wages due.
As set forth
above, Plaintiff states Muranaka Farm paid Plaintiff only $320 per week  (Magdaleno Decl., ¶ 24), and this raises a triable
issue of material fact exist as to whether $320 per week constitutes all wages
and compensation that were due to Plaintiff for his work at Muranaka Farm.  
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action:
False Promise
In support of his
claims for false promise, Plaintiff alleges Muranaka Farm, through Harry,
promised to pay Plaintiff 50% of its profits, and Plaintiff relied on that
promise in deciding to work for Muranaka Farm. 
(First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 42-45, 50-52.)  To prevail on his claim for promissory fraud,
Plaintiff must advance evidence of specific factual circumstances beyond
contract breach, which reflect Defendants’ contemporaneous intent not to
perform.  (Hills Transportation Co. v.
Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)  
As set forth
above, Defendants present evidence Plaintiff asked Muranaka Farm for a regular
salary and benefits, which were paid to Plaintiff.  (Harami Decl., ¶ 12.)  This evidence meets Defendants’ burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on the sixth and seventh causes of action for
false promise because Defendants did not promise Plaintiff employment on the terms
Plaintiff alleges.  Defendants,
therefore, have shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on these claims. 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff submitted evidence he agreed with Harry that Plaintiff would
receive 50% of the profits for Muranaka Farm while Plaintiff worked as its general
manager.  (Magdaleno Decl., ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff’s evidence raises a triable issue
of fact as to whether Defendants promised Plaintiff employment in exchange for
50% of the profits of Muranaka Farm.  
Alter Ego Liability
            Defendants
purport to move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether Defendants
Harry, Roy, Janie, and Carolyn are liable as the alter egos of Muranaka Farm. This
is not a proper issue for summary adjudication, as the alter ego contention
does not constitute any of the statutory bases for seeking summary adjudication
and would not completely dispose of any cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty”].)   In any event, Plaintiff
alleges Muranaka Farm is the alter ego of the individual defendants, and there
was a unity of interest and ownership between Muranaka Farm and the individual
defendants.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶
5, 6.)  Defendant counters by offering
facts in dispute of Plaintiff’s contentions.  By alleging the individual Defendants
generally utilized Muranaka Farm’s corporate form for fraudulent purposes,
Plaintiff effectively debunked Defendant’s contrary contentions, thereby
raising a triable issue which should be determined by the trier of fact.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff
meets his burden to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on his claims against Defendants.  Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication, is, therefore, denied.  
Defendants are to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.