  Case Number:  22STCV12522    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  9 Preliminary
Approval of Class Action Settlement
Department
SSC-9
Hon.
Elaine Lu
 
Huong Bui v. Spectrum LifeSciences, LLC et al.
Case No.: 22STCV12522
Hearing:
January 2, 2025 (continued from November 12, 2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court remains
concerned about the risk of a potential conflict of interest between the named
Plaintiff and the class. On November 12, 2024, the Court continued preliminary
approval and requested a copy of Plaintiff’s individual settlement of alleged
sexual harassment, racial harassment, and gender discrimination, which Counsel declared
was “negotiated and settled independently of the class settlement.” (See
Ardestani Decl. ISO Prelim, ¶49.) Despite such declaration, the following clauses
explicitly make the individual
settlement conditioned on approval of the class settlement:
 
Plaintiff
shall work with Defendants and the Court to secure preliminary and final
approval of the Class Action and PAGA Settlement Agreement to resolve the
pending class and representative consolidated wage and hour lawsuits.  Plaintiff expressly understands and
acknowledges that the validity and enforceability of this Agreement is
expressly contingent upon the Court’s final approval of the Class and PAGA
Settlement and/or modification of those terms. 
The contingent payment provided for under this Agreement shall only
become due and owing after confirmation of both (i) the Court’s final approval
of the Class Action and PAGA Settlement; (ii) Plaintiff has filed a dismissal
with prejudice of the Action as to her individual claims as to all parties and
all allegations, claims, charges, actions, causes of action, complaints,
lawsuits, appeals, and proceedings that Plaintiff has instituted against the
Defendants. 
 
(Pl’s Individual Settlement, ¶2.)

It is understood and agreed that this payment shall be tendered within (15)
days of all of the following having occurred: (i) court’s final approval of the
class and representative settlement in the Action […] Plaintiff shall file a
dismissal with prejudice of the Action as to her individual claims within five
business days of Defendants having funded the Class and PAGA Settlement.
 
(Pl’s Individual Settlement, ¶4.)
 
 
Accordingly, before the Court will grant preliminary approval
of the class action settlement, Counsel
must: 
 
·        
Submit
further briefing regarding Plaintiff’s adequacy as a class representative and
why a conflict of interest does not exist between Plaintiff and the class.
 
·        
Revise
Plaintiff’s individual settlement agreement at Paragraphs 2 and 4 to explicitly
state that the individual agreement is not contingent on the final resolution
of the class action and PAGA matters.
 
·        
Revise
the Class Notice to disclose to class members the named plaintiff’s entry into
a separate individual settlement agreement with the Defendant.
 
No later than February 20,
2025, the parties must submit supplemental briefing and evidence that
adequately addresses the remaining concerns above.
 
The Parties’ Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement is CONTINUED to March 13,
2025 at 10 am.
 
 