  Case Number:  23VECV01553    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  O       SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT 


EDVIN FELIPE CHINCHILLA, an individual,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
U-HAUL CO. OF CALIFORNIA; AnthonEy R A LEGARRETA;
  THE ESTATE OF ANTHONEY R A LEGARRETA; REPWEST INSRUANCE COMPANY; and DOES 4 through
50, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01553
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT REPWEST INSURANCE COMPANY’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST
  PLAINTIFF AND HIS ATTORNEYS OF RECORD PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE §
  128.7
 


 I.              
BACKGROUND This is a
motor vehicle negligence action filed by Edvin Chinchilla (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendant U-Haul Co. of California (“U-Haul”). (See Complaint, pp. 4-5.)
The Court granted U-Haul’s Motion for Summary Judgment on August 22, 2024. The
day before, Plaintiff added Defendant Repwest Insurance Company (“Repwest”) as
a Doe Defendant to the case. Repwest now effectively
seeks terminating sanctions against Plaintiff by asking the Court to strike Plaintiff’s
amendment adding Repwest to the case as well as monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff’s counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7.[1]II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORYOn April 10,
2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2)
General Negligence.On June 8,
2023, U-Haul filed its Answer. On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to include Defendant Anthoney R A Legarreta.
On May 7,
2024, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to include Defendant The Estate of
Anthoney R A Legarreta (“The Estate”). On May 31,
2024, U-Haul filed a Motion for Summary Judgement.           Plaintiff
did not file a formal opposition. Instead, the day before the hearing Plaintiff’s
counsel filed a Declaration Re: Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment and
Request for Continuance.          On
August 21, 2024, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to include Defendant Repwest
Insurance Company. On August 22,
2024, the Court granted U-Haul’s Motion for Summary Judgment. On September
17, 2024, the Court entered judgement for U-Haul against Plaintiff. On September
25, 2024, The Estate filed its Answer. On September
25, 2024, Repwest filed its Answer. On October 2,
2024, Repwest filed the instant Motion for Sanctions (“Motion”). On November
21, 2024, Repwest filed a Notice of No Opposition by Plaintiff. III.        
LEGAL STANDARDCode of Civil
Procedure § 128.7 provides for sanctions against “attorneys, law firms, or
parties” that have violated the requirement that, “[b]y presenting to the
court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances… [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary
support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary
support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery” where
sanctions may include “reasonable attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred
as a direct result of the violation” payable to the moving party “if imposed on
motion and warranted for effective deterrence.”    Code of Civil
Procedure § 128.7(d) provides that an imposed sanction “shall be limited to
what is sufficient to deter repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by
others similarly situated… the sanction may consist of, or include, directives
of a nonmonetary nature, an order to pay a penalty into court, or, if imposed
on motion and warranted for effective deterrence, an order directing payment to
the movant of some or all of the reasonable attorney’s fees and other expenses
incurred as a direct result of the violation.” Code of Civil
Procedure § 128.5(a) provides as follows: “A trial court may order a party, the
party's attorney, or both to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by another party as a result of bad-faith actions or tactics
that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.”   “‘Actions or
tactics’ include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or
the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other
responsive pleading. The mere filing of a complaint without service thereof on
an opposing party does not constitute ‘actions or tactics’ for purposes of this
section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(b)(1).) “‘Frivolous’
means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing
an opposing party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(b)(2).) “[A] suit indisputably has
no merit only ‘where any reasonable attorney would agree that the action is
totally and completely without merit.’” (Finnie v. Town of Tiburon (1988)
199 Cal.App.3d 1, 12 (citations omitted).) The Court
notes that sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7 are discretionary
and that the Court is not required to impose a monetary sanction or any
sanction at all. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7(c); Kojababian v.
Genuine Home Loans, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 408, 421.) Code of Civil
Procedure § 128.7(c)(1) provides that, “[n]otice of [a Section 128.7 Sanctions
Motion] shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed
with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days after service of the
motion, or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged paper,
claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or
appropriately corrected…” IV.         
ANALYSISRepwest seeks sanctions and dismissal
of the action against it pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7, declaring
“Repwest is not an insurance company. It is the claims handler for [U-Haul].
The same facts that gave rise to [U-Haul]'s motion for summary judgment apply
to Repwest. Additional facts, namely that Repwest did not own or rent the
subject vehicle involved in the accident, further attenuate a claim against
Repwest for the subject accident.” (Declaration of Daniel Lapidus filed October
2, 2024 (“Lapidus Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Repwest’s counsel declares he sent
correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel on August 22, 2024, seeking Repwest’s
dismissal and followed up with him via email on September 6, 2024, but that Plaintiff’s
counsel never replied to either communication. (See Lapidus Decl., ¶¶
5-7, Ex. A.) Repwest requests sanctions in the amount of $3,105.00, which
accounts for 3 hours to draft the Motion and supporting documentation, 2 hours
to draft a reply brief, and 2 hours to appear at the hearing, at a billing rate
of $435.00/hr, plus the $60.00 filing fee. (See id. at 8-10.) Repwest’s
counsel further declares he complied with the 21-day safe harbor period as
indicated by the proof of personal service attached to the Motion. (See id.
at 11, citing Proof of Personal Service filed October 2, 2024.)          After
consideration of the papers submitted and the evidence before the Court, the
Court finds two types of sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel
are warranted for effective deterrence. Procedurally, Plaintiff’s last minute
Hail Mary to salvage this action by adding Repwest to the action as a defendant
on the eve of U-Haul’s Motion for Summary Judgment hearing reflects Plaintiff’s
recognition he was going to lose that motion. There is no legal basis for
Plaintiff’s action against Repwest in light of the Court’s entry of judgment in
favor of U-Haul and Repwest’s submitted evidence is sufficient to establish the
claims against it are frivolous. Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
amendment to his Complaint adding Repwest as a defendant was frivolous as
defined by section 128.7 and strikes it.In addition, the Court finds it
appropriate to award Repwest monetary sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel
given his absolute radio silence to both of Repwest’s counsel’s attempts to
avoid filing this motion. The Court interprets his silence as well as his
failure to file an opposition to the Motion as recognition Repwest’s addition
to the action was meritless. Communication between counsel is an essential
ingredient to the efficient administration of justice and Plaintiff’s counsel’s
failure to communicate poisons the process. Thus, monetary sanctions against
him are unfortunately warranted to deter repeat behavior. However, the Court
finds it appropriate to reduce Repwest’s requested sanctions by three hours
($1,305) because no reply brief was necessary and no more than one hour is
reasonable for the hearing. Accordingly, the Court awards Repwest $1,800.00
in Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7 sanctions and strikes Plaintiff’s amendment
to his Complaint adding Repwest as a defendant.   V.            
CONCLUSIONBased on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Repwest’s Motion for Sanctions pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 128.7. Accordingly, the Court hereby strikes Plaintiff’s
amendment adding Repwest to the action and orders Plaintiff’s counsel pay
Repwest $1,800.00 in sanctions on or before December 31, 2024. In light of
the Court’s ruling and consistent with its obligations under the law,
Plaintiff’s counsel is put on notice the Court will be forwarding this Order to
the State Bar.          IT
IS SO ORDERED.DATED:      December 6, 2024


Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court


 

































































































