 Case Number:  23LBCV01458    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On August 2, 2024, Sandra Luz
Sarmiento (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Niko Llamas (Defendant)
alleging two causes of action: (1) negligence and (2) premises liability. The
Complaint stems from allegations that on September 9, 2021, Plaintiff sustained
various injuries after “her foot broke against raised concrete at the walkway”
of 540 West 22nd Street, San Pedro, California (hereinafter, the
Premises). (Compl., ¶12.) The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition (the Motion). The Motion also requests
sanctions in the amount of $5,125.00. Plaintiff opposes the Motion; no reply
was filed.     
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Deposition
a.    
Legal Standard
A motion lies to compel deposition
attendance and document production, after service of a deposition notice, where
a deponent fails to appear at, or proceed with, a deposition, without having
served a valid objection. (Code Civ. Proc. §2025.450(a).) No meet and confer is
required to compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a
declaration showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance. (Code
Civ. Proc. §2025.450(b)(2).)   
“Implicit in the requirement that
counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a
requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko v.
Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109,
1124. See also L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26,
Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating
schedules in setting depositions).)   
 
b.    
Timeline 
In their moving papers, Defendant
contends Plaintiff failed to appear at three separate depositions. Prior to the
first deposition, Defense counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel requesting
dates of availability for Plaintiff’s deposition, however Defense counsel
received no response. (Declaration of Kevin R. Jolly, hereinafter, Jolly Decl.,
¶2.)
On February 16, 2024 Defendant
served a Notice of Deposition set for April 11, 2024. The same Notice of
Deposition was re-noticed after an error was found. It was re-served on March
28, 2024 for the same April 11, 2024 date. Plaintiff served no objections to
either Notice of Deposition. (Id. at ¶3.) Plaintiff’s counsel requested
a continuance on April 9, 2024, however the objection to the April 11 date was
received after the deadline specified in Code Civ. Proc. §2025.410(b). (Id.
at ¶4.) Plaintiff failed to appear at the April 11, 2024 deposition and a
Certificate of Non-Appearance was taken. Additionally, although Plaintiff’s
counsel twice promised to provide future deposition availability, no dates were
ever provided. (Id. at ¶6.) 
On June 7, 2024, a 2nd
Amended Notice of Deposition was served for a June 28, 2024 deposition. Again,
no objections were received, and another Certificate of Non-Appearance was
taken. (Id. at ¶7.) Defense counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel
on June 28, 2024 suggesting future dates for a deposition, but no response was
received. (Id. at ¶8.)
On June 28, 2024, a 3rd
Amended Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff was served, and again no objections
were received. The deposition was set for July 19, 2024. On July 15, 2024,
Plaintiff’s Counsel contacted Defense counsel regarding the difficulties
Plaintiff’s counsel was experiencing with contacting the Plaintiff. (Id.
at ¶10.) On July 17, 2024, two days before the scheduled deposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel claimed Plaintiff could not appear. (Id. at ¶11.) On
July 19, 2024, Plaintiff failed to appear, and a third Certificate of
Non-Appearance was taken. (Id. at ¶13.) 
                                  
c.    
Analysis
Upon opposition, Plaintiff makes
four separate contentions: (1) that Defendant failed to meet and confer
appropriately and unilaterally noticed depositions, (2) Plaintiff’s counsel had
a calendar conflict for the third deposition scheduled for July 19, 2024, (3)
Plaintiff’s counsel encountered communication issues with their client and
plans to file a motion to be relieved, and (4) the request for sanctions is
unwarranted given the circumstances. The Court disagrees with all contentions,
takes each in turn, and grants the Motion. 
First, no meet and confer is required to compel initial deposition
attendance, simply a declaration showing the moving party inquired about the
nonappearance, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. 2025.450. Defendant makes
this showing. Defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel prior to serving the
first Notice of Deposition. After the first Certificate of Non-Appearance was
taken, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed promising to provide future dates,
Plaintiff’s counsel never provided such dates. After Plaintiff failed to appear
at the second deposition date, Defense counsel again emailed Plaintiff’s
counsel suggesting dates. No response was received. After the 3rd
Amended Notice of Deposition was served, Plaintiff’s counsel waited until four
days before the deposition to suggest a continuance, and waited until 10:45p.m.
on July 17, two days before the deposition to state Plaintiff would not attend.
The contention that Defense counsel failed to meet and confer and unilaterally
noticed depositions has no merit. 
Second, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
contention of a scheduling conflict for the 3rd Amended Notice of
Deposition scheduled for July 19, 2024 is unpersuasive. Plaintiff’s counsel
received the 3rd Amended Notice of Deposition on June 28, 2024 and
had more than sufficient time to communicate such a conflict and provide
alternative dates. Plaintiff’s counsel failed to do so. 
Third, the communications issues
that Plaintiff’s counsel alleges arose, were only communicated four days prior
to the third scheduled deposition. Plaintiff’s counsel provides no explanation
for why this issue was not brought up earlier with Defense counsel. 
Fourth and finally, Plaintiff’s
counsel argues sanctions are unwarranted and cites to Code of Civ. Proc.
§2025.450(g)(1) which provides that the court shall impose monetary sanctions
unless the court finds that the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. To
summarize the above, the Court finds Plaintiff’s counsel acted without
substantial justification and the circumstances here warrant the imposition of
sanctions. Plaintiff’s counsel’s arguments to the contrary are not convincing.    
d.    
Sanctions
Defense counsel provides the
following calculations regarding costs expended in an effort to schedule
Plaintiff’s deposition:
·        
Counsel’s hourly rate is $450.00;
·        
Counsel spent 6 hours on the instant matter
including: reasonable attorney fees in preparation of the Motion, and meet and
confer efforts;
·        
Counsel anticipates spending 1 hour appearing
for this Motion;
·        
Counsel spent 1.5 hours in appearing for the
depositions;
·        
Counsel expended $1,200.00 in Certificate of
Non-Appearance charges;
·        
Counsel states the filing fee for the Motion was
$100.00;
·        
Counsel requests a total of $5,125.00 in
monetary sanctions.
The Court notes that the current
Statewide Civil Fee Schedule for discovery motions filed under the Discovery
Act (Code Civ. Proc. §2016.010 et seq.) lists the fee for the instant Motion as
$60.00, not $100.00. Moreover, the attached receipt for the instant Motion from
the Court Portal shows that no fee was paid for the Motion. Therefore, the
Court will subtract $100.00 from the total sanctions amount. Thus, the Court
imposes sanctions against Plaintiff and awards them to Defendant in the amount
of $5,025.00.  
 
3.     Conclusion
Accordingly, Defendant Niko Llamas’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff Sandra Sarmiento’s Deposition is GRANTED.
Additionally, the sanctions request is GRANTED. The Court imposes
sanctions against Plaintiff and awards them to Defendant in the amount of $5,025.00.
Plaintiff is ordered to pay the sanctions to Defendant within 30 days of this
order. Additionally, the parties are ordered to schedule the deposition of
Plaintiff Sandra Sarmiento within 30 days of this order.  
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.
 