 Case Number:  24LBCV00478    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On March 4, 2024 Jayar Vat – a
minor – filed a Complaint by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Marliny Sok
(Plaintiff) against the Long Beach Unified School District (the District) for
two causes of action: (1) premises liability and (2) negligence. The Complaint
stems from an incident where Plaintiff burnt his face on hot exposed metal
pipes at Smith Elementary School located at 565 E. Hill St., Long Beach, CA
90806 (hereinafter, the Property). (Compl., ¶Prem. L-1.) 
The motion now before the Court is
the District’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer; the District filed a reply.
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Meet and Confer 
“Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a).) According to the
Declaration of Matthew J. Lippold (Lippold Decl.), Defense counsel initiated
the meet and confer process with a letter on July 17, 2024. (Lippold Decl., ¶
2.) The parties then briefly conferred on the same day but were unable to come
to an agreement. Further meet and confer efforts initiated by Defense counsel
were not responded to. (Id. at ¶¶5-7.) Nonetheless, the requirements of
Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been met. 
b.    
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
c.    
Analysis
In their moving papers the District
argues that Plaintiff fails to specify an underlying statutory basis for
liability against the District, which is a public entity. As specific to the
second cause of action for negligence, the District contends the cause of
action is barred as a matter of law. Upon opposition, Plaintiff contends that
Gov. Code §835 is the statute that allows for liability against a public
entity. Upon reply, the District points out the Complaint fails to mention Gov.
Code §835 and that this failure is fatal. The Court agrees and sustains the
demurrer, with leave to amend. 
a.     Premises
Liability and Negligence
“The elements of a cause of action
for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.” (Castellon v.
U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
            The
District contends failure to name an underlying statutory basis for liability
is fatal. Plaintiff through their opposition points to Gov. Code §835, arguing
the statue allows for liability to be placed upon the District. 
            Gov. Code
§835 provides the following:
“Except as provided
by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either:
 
(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
 
(b) The public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under
Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition.”
Plaintiff then contends they have
pled sufficient factual allegations including the date of the incident, the
location of the incident, and how Defendant’s negligent actions or omissions
were the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. The Court disagrees. 
Although Gov. Code §835 is an
underlying statute that allows liability to be placed on a public entity, a
plaintiff must still state the basis of statutory liability in the Complaint
and provide sufficient factual allegations. The Complaint fails to do the
former. As to the latter, to state a
cause of action against a public entity, each fact essential to the existence
of statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity. (Searcy v. Hemet
Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802 (“Searcy”). Also
see Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 803, 809.) The
Complaint here falls short. The Complaint merely states “Plaintiff, an
elementary school student, burnt his face on hot, exposed metal pipes” on the
Property. (Compl., ¶Prem.L-1.) It is unclear how exactly this occurred. It is
unclear where on the Property the pipes were, how the student accessed them,
and how contact with the face was made. Plaintiffs allege the District had
actual and constructive notice of the existence of the alleged dangerous
condition in sufficient time prior to the injury to have corrected it. (Compl.
¶Prem.L-4). This is a conclusory statement because the Complaint omits any
detail as to how the District had notice.  
The duty here is alleged in the
Complaint and well understood, the District including the school Plaintiff
attended as a student had a duty to keep Plaintiff safe. School districts and their employees have
never been considered insurers of the physical safety of students. (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
869 (“C.A.”). However, the California Supreme Court also stated that “a
school district and its employees have a special relationship with the
district's pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of
school attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by
school personnel, “analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents
and their children.” (Id.) To be clear, by virtue of Plaintiff being a
student at a school within the District, a duty was owed by the District to
Plaintiff. (C.A., supra at 870. Also see Virginia G. v. ABC Unified
School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854; Dailey v. Los
Angeles Unified School District (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747; and Bartell v.
Palos Verdes Peninsula School District (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 492, 498.) What
is not clear, is how the District breached that duty. Without sufficient facts
plead with the particularity Searcy demands, the Complaint must fall to
demurrer.      
d.    
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is
reasonable possibility of successful amendment, Plaintiff is granted 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
3.     Conclusion
Accordingly, Defendant Long Beach
Unified School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
in its entirety. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.