 Case Number:  24LBCV00161    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
This is a landlord-tenant action.
Plaintiff Cecila L. Wong (“Plaintiff”) sued defendant Leroy Stone (“Defendant”)
on January 29, 2024, asserting twenty causes of action arisign from her
residential tenancy at a property on Montair Avenue in Long Beach.
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff
moved for an order compelling Defendant to provide further responses to her
Form Interrogatories, Set One – specifically, to her Form Interrogatory No.
15.1, which requests that the responding party state all facts, identify all
witnesses, and identify all documents in support of each of the party’s denials
or affirmative defenses.
On October 28, 2024, Defendant
filed his opposition. Plaintiff filed no reply.
 
/ / /
/ / /
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses
a.     Legal
Standard
An interrogatory is an authorized
method of discovery to which recipient parties must respond within 30 days,
unless the propounding and responding parties agree to an extension. (§§
2030.260(a), 2030.270(a).) Each response must be either an answer, a reference
to external writing from which the answer may be found, or an objection to a
specific interrogatory. (§ 2030.210(a).)
If the response is an answer, it
must be “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits.” (§ 2030.220 (a).) “If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible,” and “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.” (§ 2030.220(b)-(c).)
If the propounding party receives
an incomplete response, or a meritless or overly general objection, the
propounding party may file a motion to compel further responses. (§
2030.300(a).) The motion must include a meet and confer declaration and a
separate statement. (§ 2030.300(b).) 
 
b.     Meeting
and Conference
The Civil
Discovery Act requires a moving party to attest to a good-faith meet and confer
effort as described in Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 before a motion
to compel further discovery responses may be granted. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300(b).)
Section 2016.040 “requires that
counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
1431, 1439.) “ ‘[T]he parties must present to each other the merits of their
respective positions with the same candor, specificity, and support during
informal negotiations as during the briefing of discovery motions. Only after
all the cards have been laid on the table, and a party has meaningfully
assessed the relative strengths and weaknesses of its position in light of all
available information, can there be a “sincere effort” to resolve the matter.’
” (Id., at p. 1435 [federal standard “applies with equal force” under
California law].) A “pro forma” attempt is insufficient. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does
not demonstrate a good-faith meet and confer effort that complies with section
2016.040. Plaintiff’s counsel sent a single, one-page email to Defendant’s
counsel that merely repeated the terms of Plaintiff’s discovery requests and
identified the responses Plaintiff deemed insufficient. (Mot., Exh. C, pp. 1-2.)
Defendant’s counsel responded that she disagreed, and Plaintiff’s counsel made
no further effort to explain Plaintiff’s position. (Id., at p. 1; Raedeker
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5 [Defendant’s counsel’s declaration in opposition].) Plaintiff
filed no reply papers to demonstrate further efforts were made.
Plaintiff’s motion is denied for
failure to meet and confer prior to filing as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040.
 
c.     Sanctions
A party unsuccessfully moving to
compel further discovery responses is ordinarily subject to mandatory monetary
sanctions. Defendant requested none, so none are imposed.
 
3.     Conclusion
The motion is denied. Moving Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.