 Case Number:  23LBCV02005    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
This action arises from an
automobile accident that occurred on December 8, 2021, on the 91 Freeway in
Long Beach, CA. On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff Rolando Diaz, Jr. (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Omran M.H. Awad (“Awad”), 3 Brothers
Trucking, Inc. (“3BT”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 20, alleging
causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) motor vehicle. 
 
On January 31, 2024, Defendant 3BT
filed a notice of related action indicating that the instant action was related
to The Kroger Company v. Omran Awad, et al., LASC Case No.
23STLC07801 (the “Kroger Action”). Also, on such date, Defendant 3BT filed its
answer to the complaint. 
 
On February 1, 2024, the Court
issued an order finding that the instant action and the Kroger Action were not
related within the meaning of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). (02/01/24
Minute Order.)   
 
On February 2, 2024, Defendants
filed a joint amended answer to the complaint. Also, on such date, Defendants
filed an amended notice of related action. 
 
On August 2, 2024, Defendants filed
and served the instant motion to consolidate related actions. Defendants seek
to consolidate the instant action with the Kroger Action. 
 
            As of November
5, 2024, no opposition brief has been filed. Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)    
 
2.     Motion
to Consolidate
a.         Legal Standard
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending
before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)
“Coordination of civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law is
appropriate if one judge hearing all of the actions . . . will promote the ends
of justice taking into account whether the common question of fact or law is
predominating and significant to the litigation; the convenience of the
parties, witnesses, and counsel; the relative development of the actions and
the work product of counsel; the efficient utilization; the calendar of the
courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or
judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement of the actions without further
litigation should coordination be denied.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
404.1.)   
“The purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience and
economy by avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of
issues common to both actions.” (Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
471, 485 [citation omitted].) “A consolidation of actions does not affect the
rights of the parties.” (Ibid.) Consolidation does not require identical
causes of action in each case, absolute identity of the parties, or identical
allegations. (Ibid.) Where common issues are present in two cases then
consolidation is appropriate. (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-79.)   
 
Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1) provides that “[c]ases
may not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related in a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that
department.”  
 
b.         Judicial Notice 
“The court may take judicial notice of its own file.” (Stepan v.
Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.) “It is settled that a court may take
judicial notice of the contents of its own records.” (Dwan v. Dixon (1963)
216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265.) A court may take judicial notice on its own motion. (Estate
of Sanchez (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 331, 338, fn. 9.) 
 
On its own motion, the Court takes judicial notice of the file in the
Kroger Action.
 
c.        The Cases Have Not Been
Deemed Related  
In support of the motion, counsel
for Defendants, Douglas M. DeGrave (“DeGrave”), provides a declaration. Mr.
DeGrave states that the instant action is the lead action and was assigned to
Department 27 and given LASC Case No. 23LBCV02005. (DeGrave Decl., ¶ 5.) The
Kroger Action was filed on December 7, 2023, and was assigned to Department 25
and given LASC Case No. 23STLC07801. (DeGrave Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants request
consolidation of the instant action and the Kroger Action. (DeGrave Decl., ¶
8.) 
 
Initially, the Court notes that the
instant action and the Kroger Action have not been deemed related.  Further, the instant action is pending in
Department S27 while the Kroger Action is currently pending in Department 25 of
the Spring Street Courthouse. The cases have not been related in a single
department. Thus, consolidation is inappropriate under Los Angeles County Court
Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1).
 
Additionally, even if the cases had
been related, the instant motion would fail. Defendants’ counsel has failed to
articulate any of the factors to warrant consolidation in his declaration. The
Court reminds Defendants that “[i]n law and motion practice, factual evidence
is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
 
d.        The Instant Motion is Procedurally
Deficient  
A notice of motion to consolidate
must: “(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have
appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (B) Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought to be
consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(a)(1)(A)-(C).)
 
Here, the Court finds that
Defendants have not complied with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)(A) and
(C). Defendants did not name the respective attorney(s) of record for Plaintiff
The Kroger Company in the notice of motion. Moreover, Defendants did not file
the instant motion for consolidation in the Kroger Action.  
Moreover, the instant motion for
consolidation is procedurally defective on the additional ground that
Defendants did not serve the instant motion on Plaintiff The Kroger Company,
whom is the sole plaintiff in the Kroger Action. (See Motion at p. 9.) The
proof of service indicates that the motion was only served on Plaintiff Rolando
Diaz Jr. Defendants therefore have failed to comply with Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.350(a)(2)(B). (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(a)(2)(B) (a motion to
consolidate “[m]ust be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented
parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated.”).) Thus, Defendants’
contention that they complied with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350 is
inaccurate. (Motion at pp. 4-5.) 
 
3.     Conclusion
The Motion to Consolidate Related
Actions is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the
court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to
submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email indicating the
parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   