  Case Number:  23CHCV01472    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-6-24
Case # 23CHCV01472,
Jesus Santana vs. Craig Brian Forry
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Craig Brian Forry
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court enter an order setting aside or vacating the default
entered against him
 
RULING:
Motion granted
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On May 19,
2023, Plaintiff Jesus Santana filed his complaint with five causes of action
for (1) Breach of fiduciary duty and duty of loyalty; (2) fraud-concealment;
(3) negligence; (4) professional negligence; and (5) declaratory relief. These
causes of action are related to an alleged amendment that Defendant Craig Brian
Forry (Defendant) was retained to make to the living trust of Decedent Violet
Evelyn Alberts.
 
Plaintiff filed
a proof of service indicating that Defendant was served on October 7, 2023, by
a registered process server. On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request
for entry of default that was entered the same day. On December 29, 2023,
Defendant filed a motion to set aside/vacate default.
 
Defendant
claims that he did not learn of the proof of service and request for entry of
default until his review of the Case Access on December 13, 2023, which he
claims he does periodically due to the history between the parties. He
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s attorney and requested a
stipulation to set aside the default, but he did not receive any response from
Plaintiff.
 
Defendant has
provided the declaration of the account manager for the security company that
handles security in the community where Defendant lives. The security company
does not have any records of any visitor to Defendant’s residence on October 7,
2023, the date of purported service.
 
ANALYSIS
Request for
Judicial Notice: Defendant has requested that the Court take judicial notice of
several documents that have been field with this court and others. The Court
takes judicial notice of these documents.
 
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows: 
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party…from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473
should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
In this case,
Defendant certainly has surprise or excusable neglect if the complaint was
never served on him, and he did not learn of the complaint until December 13. Defendant
has also met the other requirements of CCP § 473 because he accompanied his
motion with a copy of the demurrer and made the motion within six months of
entry of default. Further, the law favors hearings on the merits, so any doubts
should be resolved in Defendant’s favor
 
Defendant’s
motion to set aside and vacate entry of default is granted. Defendant’s demurrer
is deemed filed and may proceed with a hearing. The Court will set a date for
the demurrer hearing at the hearing on this motion, as well as a briefing
schedule for a supplemental opposition and reply.
 
Moving party to
give notice.