  Case Number:  20STCV07283    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ERA NOUVEAU HOLDINGS, LLC
                           
        
  vs.
 
SOUTHERN MOTION, INC.
 
                                         


 Case
  No.:  20STCV07283
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 18, 2024



 
Southern Motion’s omnibus motion to compel further responses
to compel further responses to its Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories is DENIED. 
 
Southern Motion is sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $5,600, payable within 20 days of entry of this order.  
 
The Court previously sanctioned Southern Motion, jointly and
severally with counsel, $2,800. Now, the Court sanctions Southern Motion,
jointly and severally with counsel, $5,600, payable within 20 days of entry of
this order.
 
On
2/21/2020, Plaintiff Era Nouveau Holdings, LLC (ENH or Era Nouveau or
Enouvation) filed a Complaint against Southern Motion, Inc. (SM or
Southern Motion), setting forth a claim for declaratory relief and a claim for
breach of contract. Southern Motion answered and cross-complained against Era
Nouveau, adding Era Nouveau USA, LLC (EN USA LLC) and Era Nouveau,
LLC (EN LLC) as Cross-Defendants and setting forth claims for 1)
fraudulent misrepresentations; 2) fraudulent concealment; 3) breach of implied
warranty of merchantability; 4) breach of implied warranty of fitness for
particular purpose; 5) breach of contract; and 6) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200. 
 
On
5/15/2020, Southern Motion filed a Cross-Complaint against ERA Nouveau
Holdings, LLC, ERA Nouveau USA, LLC, and ERA Nouveau, LLC. On June 5, 2020,
Southern Motion added Samuel Contreras as Roe 1, Nathan Munton as
Roe 2, and Thomas Peper as
Roe 3. Munton specially
appeared and moved to quash service of summons. On September 29,
2020, the Court granted the motion. 
 
On October
8, 2020, Southern Motion filed its First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC), adding
David Witmer as a Cross-Defendant and setting forth the same six
claims. As of today’s date, Witmer has not yet formally appeared in this
action. On May 4, 2021, the Court overruled a demurrer to Southern
Motion’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SAC). 
 
           On 10/18/2023, Southern Motion moved
for compel further responses from ENH to its Form Interrogatories (Set One) and
Special Interrogatories (Set One).
 
           On 12/28/2023, ENH opposed. 
 
Discussion

 
           SM argues that ENH should be ordered
to supplement its responses because its objections lack merit, and “every
iteration was simply a copy-paste application of objections, and the objections
were not tailored, and often, not related, to the Requests themselves, or to
California law.” (Motion, 8: 21-22.)
 
           After review, the Court disagrees. 
 
           As noted by ENH in opposition, while
ENH’s responses did include objections, they also included substantive
responses. As such, SM’s motion is misleading in that it suggests that ENH’s
responses consistent solely of boiler-plate objections. 
 
           Moreover, this motion strongly
appears to be an act of gamesmanship, rather than a good faith effort to engage
in discovery. Both parties have criticized the other for filing Separate
Statements with copy-and-pasted justifications for why further discovery is
warranted. Despite that, SM filed a nearly 600-page long Separate Statement,
and uses identical language for every single request: “[b]ut, Cross-Complainant
uses the same language verbatim for every single request. Cross-Complainant
analyzes every single objection asserted to any request, while conceding that
the objection may not have been raised to that particular request.” (Opp., 5:
9-12.)
 
           This conclusion is reinforced by the
fact that SM was sanctioned for this very conduct in the Court’s 11/15/2023
ruling on another motion to compel further responses brought by SM. The Court
wrote:
 
Second, each “Why Further Response is Warranted” section in
Southern Motion’s Separate Statement is identical. As such, Southern Motion has
not explained with any nuance why any given response is insufficient or why the
objections are invalid as to any particular request. Rather, Southern Motion copy
and pasted the same exact justification for each discovery response, despite
the wide range of responses implicated by the motion. Given that a 589-page
Separate Statement was filed, Southern Motion’s copy-and-paste motion has not
met its burden to show that further responses are warranted as to each of the
discovery requests, which includes 117 Special Interrogatories.
 
           (11/15/2023 Minute Order) 
 
           The Court concludes that SM’s conduct
amounts to an abuse of the discovery process. SM’s motion to compel further
discovery is denied. The Court previously sanctioned SM, jointly and severally
with counsel, $2,800. Now, the Court sanctioned SM, jointly and severally with
counsel, $5,600, payable within 20 days of entry of this order. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated:  March    , 2024
                                                                                                                       
                   
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 