 Case Number:  21STCV12948    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  30 TINNA JONSDOTTIR vs HONGSHI SUN, et al.Motion for Order Requiring Plaintiff's Mental ExaminationTENTATIVEMotion for Order Requiring Mental Examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to sit for mental examination within 30 days of notice of ruling.  Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONIntervenor Indian Harbor Insurance Company moves to have Plaintiff submit to a mental examination by Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D.Plaintiff’s complaint includes emotional distress and depression since the date of the accident in 2019. As indicated in her deposition, Plaintiff is making a claim for damage to her psychological or psychiatric condition. Thus, Intervenor moves under CCP § 2032.310 to have Plaintiff submit to a mental examination performed by Ari Kalechstein, Ph.D. This examination is to “assist counsel and the trier of fact in understanding the origin, nature, and severity of plaintiff’s alleged difficulties/impairment vis-à-vis cognition, emotion, and/or behavior.” (Motion 9: 21-23.)In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that a neuropsychological examination will violate Plaintiff’s privacy rights and is unlikely to lead to admissible evidence. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that her cognitive ability “has not been placed in controversy, and thus, a neuropsychological exam would violate her right to privacy by forcing her to…reveal private information…that is not necessary to Defendant’s needs in conducting litigation.” (Opp. 6: 23-26.) The type of exam requested by Intervenor is unnecessary, invasive, and is wholly unrelated to the current matter. However, Plaintiff would be amenable and stipulate to a standard psychological examination.While it is obvious that Plaintiff's IQ is not relevant, the Court finds that a neuropsychological examination is appropriate to address the breadth of complaints that the Plaintiff has made regarding her mental status post-accident. “The only statutorily authorized justification for ordering a mental examination is that the ‘mental condition’ of the examinee is ‘in controversy.’” (Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886.) In Doyle, the Court found that because the plaintiff did not allege any current mental injury, a mental examination was not relevant. Here, however, the FAC indicates that Plaintiff’s injuries “have caused, and continue to cause Plaintiff physical, mental and nervous pain, suffering and anguish…” (FAC ¶¶ 10, 17, 23.) Thus, her mental state is directly in controversy. While Plaintiff claims that a neuropsychological examination is evasive, not all of the examinations may be administered if Plaintiff's history does not indicate them. (Reply 3: 2-5.) Therefore, given the fact that Plaintiff has indicated a claim for continuing mental pain, as well as the evidence that Plaintiff utilized psychiatrist in the past as a result of the June 2019 accident (Exhibits 3-4, filed 10/6/2023), the Court finds that a neuropsychological exam is proper.