..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: unknown (assuming it's not provided)
Plaintiff's Name: Andres Cervantes, Alexander Ruiz Guzman, and Salvador Morales
Defendant's Name: Techno-Advanced, Inc.
People-Names: Andres Cervantes, Alexander Ruiz Guzman, Salvador Morales
Company-Names: Techno-Advanced, Inc.
Places: none mentioned
Dates: February 24, 2023
Events: Motion to compel arbitration, failure to timely tender arbitration fees
Money: arbitration fees
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek to withdraw from arbitration
Facts: Defendant failed to timely tender arbitration fees
Disputes: wage and hour dispute
Acts: failure to pay arbitration fees
Agreements: arbitration agreement
Laws: Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.98
Case Citations: Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.98
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.98
Roles: Plaintiff (Andres Cervantes, Alexander Ruiz Guzman, and Salvador Morales), Defendant (Techno-Advanced, Inc.)
Significant Statements: "Because there is no opposition, Defendant has conceded its payment was untimely.  Thus, Plaintiffs have a right to reinstate the action."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is granting the motion of plaintiffs Andres Cervantes, Alexander Ruiz Guzman, and Salvador Morales to withdraw from arbitration. This is because the defendant, Techno-Advanced, Inc., failed to timely pay arbitration fees. According to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98, the defendant's failure to pay fees results in a waiver of arbitration, and the plaintiffs have the right to instead proceed in court. The defendant has conceded that its payment was untimely, and therefore the plaintiffs are entitled to reinstate their action. The judge will not award an evidentiary sanction and is granting the motion to withdraw from arbitration. The plaintiffs may also bring a motion for fees and costs/monetary sanctions.
