 Case Number:  23STCV25497    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 19,
2023, Mari Goto (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Bo Li, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Does 1 through 40 for (1)
negligence – motor vehicle, (2) negligence – common carriers, (3) negligence
per se, (4) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision, and (5) vicarious
liability – negligence causes of action arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on October 19, 2021.
 
Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC filed an answer to the
complaint on February 2, 2024.
 
On March 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed amended the complaint to name Fredy Garcia Hernandez and Jairo
Sandoval as Does 1 and 2.
 
On April 25,
2024, Fredy Garcia Hernandez and Jairo Sandoval filed an answer to the
complaint and a cross-complaint against Bo Li, Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier
LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC.
 
As it
relates to the matter before the Court on May 14, 2024, Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed this motion to compel arbitration on March
22, 2024,. 
 
No
opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability. (See Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, a
“written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon
such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in pertinent part, the following:
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact ....”  
(d) … If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the
court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order
intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have
agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) 
“[W]hen a
petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must
determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement
is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to
enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory
defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the
burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
Discussion
Uber moves for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claim
against Uber in accordance with the terms of an agreement between the parties
to arbitrate.  Uber also seeks to stay
litigation of Plaintiff’s claims against Uber pending completion of the
arbitration.
As a threshold matter, Uber has met its initial burden of showing
that there is an agreement to arbitrate between the parties that covers the
matters in dispute here.  
Chenshan Yu, Data Scientist for Uber, has submitted a written
declaration explaining (among other things): (1) that Plaintiff accepted Uber’s
Terms of Service when she created her user account on April 15, 2017, and
subsequently accepted a series of Uber’s updated Terms of Service on January
21, 2021 and December 21, 2021.  (Yu
Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.)  
The documents attached to Yu’s declaration demonstrate (among other
things): (1) that paragraph 2 of the Terms of Use dated March 23, 2017,
includes an agreement to arbitrate “any dispute, claim or controversy,” subject
to some exclusions that do not apply here, and provides that the FAA will
govern the interpretation and enforcement of the agreement to arbitrate (Exh. B,
¶ 2); and (2) that paragraph 2 of the Terms of Use that Plaintiff accepted in January
2021, as well as paragraph 2 of the Terms of Use that Plaintiff accepted in December
2021, also contain similar provisions (Id., Exh. D.). 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
Where, as here, the parties have agreed that their agreement
to arbitrate is governed by the FAA, the procedural rules of the FAA apply and
displace the procedural provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2
are displaced.  (Victrola 89 v. Jaman
Properties
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346-48; Rodriguez v. American Technologies
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-22.)  And
under the FAA’s procedural rules, the motion to compel the arbitration must be
granted, and the litigation between the parties who agreed to arbitrate must be
stayed, even if there are other pending claims not subject to arbitration that
arise from the same transaction or occurrence, and even if there is a risk of
inconsistent or conflicting rulings. 
(See 9 U.S.C. § 3; Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury
Construction (1983) 460 U.S. 1.)  The
FAA “leaves no place for the exercise of discretion by a district court, but
instead mandates that district courts shall direct the parties to proceed to
arbitration on issues as to which an arbitration agreement has been signed,”
even when “the result would be the possibility inefficient maintenance of
separate proceedings in different forums.” 
(Dean Witter Reynolds v. Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 218.) 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
The Court ORDERS
Plaintiff and Uber to arbitrate their disputes pursuant to the terms of the
agreements between them.  
The Court sets
an OSC re dismissal (completion of arbitration) for ______________, 2024, at
8:30 a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
The Court STAYS
litigation of Plaintiff’s claim against Uber (only).
The litigation
of Plaintiff’s causes of action against the other defendants, and of the causes
of action asserted in the cross-complaint, is not stayed or otherwise affected
by this ruling. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.