 Case Number:  21STCV42420    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion of Defendant
Miguel Unzueta, M.D., for Summary Judgment
Motion of Defendant Mercy Eye Care Medical, Inc., for Summary Judgment
 
TENTATIVE
 
The
Court will hear from the parties and counsel.
 
In
addition to the merits of the motion, the Court would like to hear from
Plaintiff regarding whether she served counsel for Defendant Mercy Eye Care
Medical Group, Inc. (“Mercy”) with the full 64-page document entitled “Doctors
Report” that was filed with the Court on April 26, 2024, and is being treated
as the opposition to the summary judgment motions.
 
If
Plaintiff did not do so, the Court would like to hear from Mercy regarding the
appropriate remedy. It appears that Mercy has now (belatedly) received or
obtained a copy of the full document. The Court has the power to disregard the
opposition (and any other document filed but not properly served), and the
Court is concerned that Mercy did not have a full and complete opportunity to prepare
a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. The Court is also hesitant to resolve a
motion as significant as a summary judgment motion on a procedural defect and would
consider a further continuance of this hearing so that all parties may be fully
heard on the merits.
 
Background
 
On November 17, 2021, Plaintiff Norma Berry (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint in this action against Defendants Mercy Eye Care Medical, Inc. (“Mercy”), Miguel Unzueta, M.D.
(“Unzueta”), Sandeep Khanna, M.D. (“Khanna”), and
Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action for medical malpractice and lack
of informed consent, arising out of medical care and several procedures for
cataracts during the period of June through September 2020. 
Mercy and Khanna filed an answer on January 27,
2022. Unzueta filed an answer on January 28, 2022.
On October 5, 2023, Khanna filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of December 19, 2023.
On October 6 2023, Mercy filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of December 20, 2023.
On October 13, 2023, Unzueta filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of January 8, 2024.
On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition to the motions of
Mercy and Khanna, along with objections. Mercy and Khanna filed their replies
on December 14 and 15, 2023.
The
Court, on its own motion, continued the hearings on the motions filed by Mercy
and Khanna. Subsequently, on Plaintiff’s ex parte application, the Court
continued the hearings on all three motions to April 4, 2024.
On
February 22, 2024, the Court granted the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel to be
relieved.
Prior to
the hearing on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff did not file any opposition to
Unzueta’s motion.
The
three motions came on for hearing on April 4. After hearing from both sides,
the Court continued the hearings to April 30, 2024. The Court ordered Plaintiff
to file any opposition to the motions, in writing, by April 16. 
Plaintiff
did not file any opposition by April 16. On April 17, Plaintiff filed a document
entitled “Reason # Hospitalization” indicating that she had been hospitalized
and/or had undergone some type of medical procedure on or about April 11.
On April
26, 2024, just two court days before the hearing, Plaintiff filed a document
entitled “Doctors Report” which appears to be an opposition to Unzueta’s
summary judgment motion. 
On April
30, the three summary judgment motions came on for hearing. The Court stated
that it would treat the document entitled “Doctors Report” as a supplemental
opposition filed by Plaintiff, granted the summary judgment motion filed by
Khanna, continued the hearing on the summary judgment motions filed by Unzueta
and Mercy, and granted Unzueta and Mercy leave to file supplemental replies to
Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition.
On May
9, 2024, Unzueta and Mercy filed objections and supplemental replies.
Legal
Standard
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Evidentiary Objections
Each side has submitted objections. Evidence
presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment
must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court
must “consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have
been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendants’ evidence (filed on December 4, 2023) are overruled.
Unzueta’s
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence (filed on May 9, 2024) are overruled.
THE COURT
WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES regarding Mercy’s objection to Plaintiff’s evidence,
including on the ground of lack of service.
With
regard to the objections of both Unzueta and Mercy to the expert declaration of
Dr. Sebag presented by Plaintiff, the Court finds that the expert has
appropriate credentials; that the testimony of the expert relates to a subject that is sufficiently
beyond common experience; that the opinion of the expert would assist the trier
of act; that his opinion is based on information of the type on which an expert
may reasonably rely; that his opinion is based on reasons supported by the
information on which the expert relies; and that his opinion is not speculative
(Evid. Code, §§ 801-02; Sargon Enterprises v. USC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747,
771-21.). Defendants’ arguments go to the weight to be given to Dr. Sebag’s
expert opinion testimony, and the Court does not weigh evidence on a summary
judgment motion. 
Discussion
The
Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Unzueta
Unzueta moves
for summary judgment on the grounds that the undisputed facts show that he met
the standard of care, that he did not cause Plaintiff’s injury, and he
adequately disclosed all important risks in obtaining Plaintiff’s consent.
In a
medical negligence action, a plaintiff must establish the following elements:
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of [the] profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.” (Galvez
v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4tha 1410, 1420; Simmons v. West Covina
Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02.)  “Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be
established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008), 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
A medical
professional breaches the duty of professional care by failing to act in
accordance with the prevailing industry standard of care. (See Folk v. Kilk
(1975) 53 Cal.App.3d 176, 186.) “The standard of care
against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly
within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice
action and can only be proved by their testimony …, unless the conduct required
by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’”
(Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action must “present
evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from finding that it
was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the standard of care.”
(Johnson v. Super. Ct. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) “When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports [the] motion with expert
declarations that [their] conduct fell within the community standard of care, [the
defendant] is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward
with conflicting expert evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of
California¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
Here, Unzueta
presents the declaration of Jonathan M. Davidorf, M.D. (“Dr. Davidorf”), who is
a Diplomate of the American Board of Ophthalmology, a Clinical Assistant
Professor of Ophthalmology at UCLA School of Medicine, Jules Stein Institute,
and has been in private practice in the field of ophthalmology for
approximately 28 years. (Davidorf Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3-4 & Exh. A.) Dr. Davidorf
is familiar with the standard of care in the medical profession that applies to
ophthalmologists within the community. (Id., ¶ 6.)
Dr.
Davidorf has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records. (Id., ¶
7.) Based upon that review, Dr. Davidorf opines that Unzueta acted at
all relevant times within the standard of care related to his care and
treatment of Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 9-17.) Dr. Davidorf also opines that
no action or inaction by Unzueta caused or contributed to the injuries of which
Plaintiff complains. (Id., ¶¶ 18-19.)
Dr. Davidorf’s opinion
testimony is “evidence which, if uncontradicted, would constitute a
preponderance of evidence that an essential element of the plaintiff’s case
cannot be established.” (Kids’ Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
870, 879.) The expert opinion testimony of Dr. Davidorf is evidence that Unzueta
complied with his duties under California law and the standard of care for a
reasonably careful medical professional under similar circumstances.
With this evidence, Unzueta has
satisfied the initial burden of showing that one or more elements of the causes
of action in the complaint cannot be established. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show
that there is a triable issue of one or more material facts as to the causes of
action. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff filed a timely
opposition to Defendant Unzueta’s motion for summary judgment on December 5,
2023. This opposition was based largely on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections,
which the Court has overruled.
In addition, Plaintiff filed a
document entitled “Doctors Report” on April 26. This supplemental opposition
attaches a sworn Jerry Sebag, M.D., board certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology,
a former clinical professor of ophthalmology at USC (1990-2014), a current
professor of clinical ophthalmology at UCLA (2019 to present), a Founding
Director of VMR Institute for Vitreous Macula Retina, who states that he has 38
years of experience in the field. Dr. Sebag states that it is his opinion that
Defendant Unzueta “fell below the standard of care in providing treatment to Norma
Berry, specifically as related to the 9-9-20 cataract surgery performed on the
left eye.”
Although this document was
filed well after the due date, the Court, after taking into consideration the
importance of this motion, exercises its discretion to accept Plaintiff’s filing
of April 26 and to treat it as a supplemental opposition.
In reply, Defendant Unzueta argues
first that the Court should grant his motion because Plaintiff did not file a
separate statement as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (b)(3), and California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(e)(2). The Court
has discretion to grant a summary judgment motion when no separate statement,
or an inadequate separate statement, is filed by the party opposing motion. (See
Batarse v. Service Employees International Union Local 1000 (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 820, 830-831; see also 3 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2023), ¶ 10:189.) 
Here, however, the Court
declines to exercise its discretion in the manner requested by Defendant
Unzueta. Plaintiff has filed an opposition and a supplemental opposition, and
it is sufficiently clear from the supplemental opposition which facts Plaintiff
contends are disputed. Unzueta does not claim to be, and is apparently not, prejudiced
by the absence of a separate statement. Rather than continue this matter
further, or decide this motion based on a procedural default, the Court will,
in these circumstances, exercise its discretion to proceed to the merits of the
motion. 
On the merits of the motion,
the Court has reviewed all of the evidence in the record. Among other things,
Dr. Sebag states, “Within a reasonable medical probability, this patient’s
complaints … are the direct result of the trauma to the iris during cataract
surgery that left the patient with a dilated pupil which allows excess light
into the eye. Physical examination clearly documents evidence of iris trauma
that can only have occurred during cataract surgery.” (Sebag Decl. at p. 7.) 
On the first cause of action
(medical negligence), the expert opinion testimony of Dr. Sebag is sufficient
to establish that there are triable issues of fact with regard to Unzueta’s
alleged failure to meet the standard of care during the cataract surgery
performed on September 9, 2020, and causation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
On the second cause of action
(failure to obtain informed consent), Defendant Unzueta moved solely on the
basis of causation. Dr. Sebag’s declaration is sufficient to create a triable
issue as to causation.
Defendant Unzueta’s motion for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication is therefore denied.
The
Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Mercy
Mercy
moves for summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff’s theory is that it is
derivatively liable as the principal or employer of Unzueta and Khanna, and the
undisputed facts show that both Unzueta and Khanna met the standard of care,
that neither Unzueta nor Khanna caused Plaintiff’s injury, and that both
Unzueta and Khanna adequately disclosed all important risks in obtaining
Plaintiff’s consent.
The
Court previously granted the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendant
Khanna. In this order, however, the Court is denying the motion for summary
judgment filed by Defendant Unzueta. 
Accordingly, as Mercy’s
potential liability is derivative (at least in part) of Unzueta’s, the Court
also denies Mercy’s motion for summary judgment.
Conclusion
The
Court will hear from the parties.