 On October 3, 2022, 321 Properties, Inc. and Sung Won Yi filed a Cross-Complaint for (1) breach of implied contract, (2) quantum meruit, and (3) declaratory relief.  They contend that they managed Cross-Defendants Belmont One Investment Holdings, LLC and Belmont Two Investment Holdings, LLC, but that Cross-Defendants failed to compensate them for their services. Cross-Defendants Belmont One Investment Holdings, LLC and Belmont Two Investment Holdings, LLC now seek summary adjudication as to the Cross-Complaint.  The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Cross-Defendants argue that all claims fail because “the record clearly shows that 321/YI received $4,000.00 a month for . . . their services dating as far back as July 2015 and continuously up until 321/YI was removed in October of 2022.”  Cross-Complainants argue that the “Motion equates a Property Manager with the Manager of a Limited Liability Company. The Motion assumes that since 321 Properties, Inc. (dba One Properties, Inc.) was paid as Property Manager that Sam Yi was, therefore, fully compensated for his services as Manager of both Belmont One and Two, LLC. Those managerial positions are separate and distinct. The fact that 321 Properties, Inc., has been paid as Property Manager is irrelevant to the allegations in the Cross-Complaint that Sam Yi has not been paid for the services he provided as Manager of Belmont’s One and Two.” Cross-Defendants argue, “a moratorium against any LLC manager compensation in the absence of a formally noticed and approved Member Meeting governs here. There is no dispute that a meeting to approve LLC manager compensation never occurred.” Cross-Complainants argue that “[b]y allowing Mr. Yi to act as Manager of Belmont One and Two for years without complaint, Cross-Defendants have waived any argument that Mr. Yi should not be compensated for the value of the services he rendered.”  No reply was filed.  It appears there are triable issues as to whether full compensation was provided for Yi’s services.  The Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied.Moving parties to give notice.