  Case Number:  20STCV14744    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  15 ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (PUGET)
            Defendant
Puget Sound Commerce Center, Inc. filed a motion for summary adjudication of
Plaintiffs Polly Gastrom and Suzanne Nesbit’s claims that Robert Baer was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products. 

The hearing on the motion
was originally set for September 1, 2023. 
The court posted a tentative decision on August 31, 2023.  The tentative decision stated that if
Plaintiffs wanted additional time to brief the applicability of McIndoe v.
Huntington Ingalls Inc. (9th Cir. 2016) 817 F.3d 1170 and whether a
contractor can be strictly liable for installing defective parts when building
a Navy ship (which Plaintiffs contended Defendant raised for the first time in
its reply) the court would continue the hearing.  At the September 1, 2023 hearing, Plaintiffs
requested additional briefing.  The court
continued the hearing to September 28, 2023 at 9 a.m. and stated Plaintiffs could
file a supplemental opposition by September 18, 2023, and Defendant could file
a supplemental reply by September 25, 2023. 
Plaintiffs did not file a supplemental opposition.
            Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statements are overruled.
            Plaintiffs’
objections are not in proper format and include objections to different pieces
of evidence in the same objection.  Also,
Plaintiffs do not quote the piece of evidence accurately.  Instead, Plaintiffs paraphrase or rewrite the
piece of evidence.  For example,
Objection No. 15 states the objectionable piece of evidence is:  “If Todd’s bid was selected, the Navy and
Todd would enter into a contract that was written and prepared by the Navy . .
. .”  Objection No. 15 states that that objectionable
evidence is in paragraph 15 of the Sanford Declaration.  However paragraph 15 of the Sanford
Declaration does not mention Todd.  It states,
in part: “When the Navy needed a vessel built like the USS Waddell, design
plans and specifications prepared by NAVESEA (or its predecessor BUSHIPS) was
sent to private shipyard for bid. . . .” 
The court’s rulings here are based on the actual evidence, not on
Plaintiffs’ rewriting of the evidence.
Plaintiffs’ Objection
Nos. 1:  Sustained.
            Plaintiffs’
Objection Nos. 2, 6-12, 14 (as to Sanford), 15 (as to Sanford), 16 (as to
Sanford), 21 (as to Sanford), 22 (as to Sanford), 23 (as to Sanford), and 24-27:  Overruled.
            Plaintiffs’
Objection Nos. 3-5, 13, 14 (as to Marsh), 15 (as to Marsh), 16 (as to Marsh),
17-20, 21 (as to Marsh), 22 (as to Marsh), 23 (as to Marsh), and 28-36:  The court did not rely on this evidence.
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the cause of action for strict
liability.  The parties agree that
federal maritime law applies to Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant and that a
ship is not a product.  The disagreement
focuses on whether maritime law provides for a strict liability cause of action
based on the provision and installation of parts used to build a ship.
            Defendant
argues McIndoe requires the grant of summary adjudication.  (Motion at pp. 14-15.)  In that case, the plaintiff sued the
contractors who had built the ships on which he served, alleging they were
“strictly liable for defects in materials originally installed on the ships
they built.”  (McIndoe, supra, 817
F.3d at p. 1173.)  The court in that case
explained that Navy ships are built under government contract, and the
“shipbuilder does not manufacture – and has little ability to control the
quality of – the many thousands of component parts installed on each ship, let
alone to account in its pricing for the virtually unlimited liability that
would flow from a rule holding it strictly liable for their damages.”  (Id. at p. 1174.)  The court held that maritime law does not
allow a strict liability claim against a shipbuilder in such a situation. 
            That
case is very similar to this one.  Defendant
constructed the ship at issue, and Plaintiffs contend Defendant “is responsible
for the components it furnished and installed on the ship.”  (Opposition at p. 1.)  Defendant submitted evidence that “any and
all work performed in the construction of Navy ships was performed to the
requirements specified by the Navy, and the work was necessarily and
periodically reviewed and inspected by Navy personnel in the shipbuilding yards
and during sea trials,” and such ships must be built in strict adherence to the
Navy’s specifications without deviation. 
(See, e.g., Sanford Decl., ¶¶ 10, 13, 16, 17.)  As in McIndoe, Plaintiffs do not
allege Defendant manufactured the component parts.  Defendant has shown the reasoning and holding
of McIndoe apply here, and under that holding Plaintiffs have no
strict liability cause of action against Defendant.  This shifted the burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Saratoga Fishing Co. v. J.M. Martinac
& Co. (1997) 520 U.S. 875 and the Restatement (Third of Torts) allow
the strict liability cause of action against the contractor that constructs a
Navy ship.  The plaintiff in Saratoga
Fishing was the owner of a fishing ship that caught fire and sank.  (Id. at p. 877.)  The court held a plaintiff in admiralty can
recover for physical damage to property caused by a defective product.  (Id. at pp. 876-877.)  Saratoga Fishing did not involve
personal injury or a Navy ship.  It did
not address whether the contractor that constructs a Navy ship can be liable
for installing defective parts on the ship. 
Therefore, the analysis and holding in Saratoga Fishing do not apply
here.
            Plaintiffs
cite the Restatement’s discussion of claims involving real property and
definitions.  (Opposition at pp.
4-5.)  Those discussions do not address
maritime law or McIndoe, except to note that the court in McIndoe
held the ship was not a product subject to a strict liability claim.  The Restatement does not state there is a
cause of action against a contractor for installing defective parts on a Navy
ship.  
Plaintiffs did not
distinguish McIndoe from this case. 
Instead, Plaintiffs contend Defendant’s notice of motion and moving
papers did not raise the issue of no liability for installing defective parts
in constructing a Navy ship.  That is not
correct.  Defendant’s notice of motion cites
McIndoe and its memorandum of points and authorities quotes the
pertinent parts of that case.  In any
event, the court gave Plaintiffs several weeks to file additional briefing on
the applicability of McIndoe, which Plaintiffs declined to do.
The motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 