 Case Number:  23STCV16061    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (CHARLES B.
CHRYSTAL)
            Plaintiff
Maria Lozano alleges she was injured as a result of asbestos exposure from
Defendant Charles B. Chrystal Company’s products.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Plaintiff does not
dispute there is no general jurisdiction over Defendant.
Defendant argues
Plaintiff cannot prove specific jurisdiction because it did not sell talc to Johnson
& Johnson and Mary Kay, although it may have sold talc to Revlon and Max
Factor.  (Motion at p. 2.)  But Defendant never sold, shipped or marketed
talc to any customers in California and has no connection to California.  (Prybyla Decl., ¶ 5.)   
Plaintiff argues that
Defendant placed the product in the stream of commerce.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  “In the products liability context, merely
placing a product into the stream of commerce, even with knowledge that the
product might enter the forum state, is not a sufficient basis for personal
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant. 
[Citations.]  On the other hand,
‘if the sale of a product of a manufacturer or distributor . . . is not simply
an isolated occurrence, but arises from the efforts of the manufacturer or
distributor to serve, directly or indirectly, the market for its product in
other States, it is not unreasonable to subject it to suit in one of those
State if its allegedly defective merchandise has there been the source of
injury to its owner or to others.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Jayone, supra,
31 Cal.App.5th at pp. 558-559.)  “[T]he indirect
placement of products into the stream of commerce does not necessarily insulate
a foreign manufacturer from the jurisdiction of California courts.  Even an indirect effort to serve a California
market for a manufacturer's product may reasonably make that manufacturer
subject to suit in California if its product has caused injury.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 115.) 
“A nonresident defendant's indirect sales through its California
distributors constitutes economic activity in California as a matter of
commercial actuality when the defendant earned substantial gross income from
that activity.”  (Id. at p.
116.)  
Plaintiff allegedly used Revlon
and Max Factor talcum products in California from the 1970s to June 2023.  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Defendant states it may have sold talc to
those companies during that time period. 
(Prybyla Decl., ¶ 6.)   
Plaintiff has the right
to discover whether Defendant sold talc to Revlon and Max Factor for products that
would be shipped to or sold in California, whether any such sales were more
than an isolated occurrence, and whether such sales arose from Defendant’s purposeful
efforts to market its products in California. 
The request for discovery on issues of specific jurisdiction regarding those
issues during the time Plaintiff used Revlon and Max Factor talcum products is
granted.  The hearing on the motion is CONTINUED
to January 3, 2024 at 9 a.m.  Plaintiff
may file a supplemental opposition brief and Defendant may file a supplemental
reply brief on regular notice.
The moving party is to
give notice.