 Case Number:  23STCV11355    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFERENCEOn May 18, 2023,
Plaintiff Virginia B. Adams filed this action for personal injury caused by
asbestos exposure.  On August 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion for trial
preference under Code of Civil Procedure sections 36, subdivision (a).
 
Plaintiff’s
two evidentiary objections are sustained. 
 
A party who is over 70
years old may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant
if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based
upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any
party.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.) 
 
“Upon the granting of
such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more
than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days
from the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability
of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any continuance shall be for no more than 15
days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may be granted to
any party.”  (Id.)
 
Plaintiff is 86 years
old and was diagnosed with malignant pleural mesothelioma on December 1, 2022.  (Adams Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  She experiences fatigue, body pain, coughing,
and shortness of breath.  (Oral Decl., ¶¶
7-11; Adams Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.)  She also requires
the use of an oxygen tank.  (Adams Decl.,
¶ 7.)  A four-day deposition left Adams with
strong mental fatigue and exhaustion.  (Oral
Decl., ¶ 9; Adams Decl., at ¶ 10.)  Adams
further represents that she was advised that due to her age her body is
unlikely to tolerate chemotherapy well, but a possibility remains that she will
receive palliative immunotherapy or radiation in the future.  (Id. at ¶ 6.) 
 
The court finds that Adams
has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.  The evidence establishes that her health and
age are such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest
in the litigation.  Her health has
already deteriorated and there is no evidence it will improve.  Rather, the evidence is that her condition
will continue to decline. Granting preference here is necessary to ensure Plaintiff
Adams can participate in the trial while her health permits.
 
The motion is
GRANTED.  Trial is set for January 22,
2024 at 9 a.m.  The final status
conference is January 8, 2024 at 9 a.m. 
The parties are to meet and confer on a trial setting order.  The court sets a status conference regarding
the trial setting order for October 5, 2023 at 9 a.m.
The moving party is to
give notice.
 