 Case Number:  22STCV13872    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  IMELDA BARRAGAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  THE HERTZ CORPORATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV13872  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 22, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On April 26, 2022, plaintiff Imelda Barragan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) and Dyllan William Williams (“Williams”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for injuries arising from a moto vehicle collision.  Hertz filed its Answer to the complaint on July 22, 2022. Williams filed his Answer to the complaint on October 16, 2023.  Defendants now move to continue the trial date, and all related dates, by five-months in order to complete discovery and prepare for trial. As of April 9, 2024, the motion is unopposed.   II. MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL Legal Standard Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  Discussion & Conclusion Defendants argue there is good cause for a continuance because of the current challenges in preparing for trial. Hertz remains subject to the federal bankruptcy stay issued in May 2020, and Hertz filed a Notice of Permanent Injunction in this action on July 22, 2022. The stay relating to Hertz remains. Further, Williams did not appear in this action until October 2023, and a continuance will allow for the completion of expert witness discovery, in addition to time to engage in settlement discussions. Defendants aver there have been two prior trial continuances to date, and Defendants seek only a five-month continuance to prepare for trial. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion, and there is otherwise no identifiable prejudice to any party by the continaunce.  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date to allow the parties sufficient time to complete discovery. Accordingly, Defendants’ unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.   The July 7, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The May 24, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date. The parties must plan all discovery and trial preparation accordingly.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 19th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   