  Case Number:  24STCV16634    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  30  Analysis
Joseph Kochav
Lev, JKL Business Solutions, LLC, and Kochav Lev, LLC (Cross-Defendants) move to strike portions of Cavalia
Communications Inc.’s (Cross-Complainant’s) cross complaint (CC) on the basis
that Cross-Complainant does not allege facts sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages. Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is granted.
 
A.    Legal Standard
 
The Court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The Court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.,
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) When granting a
motion to strike, a court may grant the plaintiff leave to amend. (Id. §
435.5, subd. (c)(1).)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike Cross-Complainant’s
prayer for punitive damages and all paragraphs referencing punitive damages in
the CC. A plaintiff may recover punitive damages where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice is defined as conduct
intended to injure the plaintiff or despicable conduct by a defendant acting
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others. (Id.,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of their rights. (Id.,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(2).) And fraud refers to intentional misrepresentations or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant. (Id., § 3294,
subd. (c)(3).)
 
Here, Cross-Complainant requests
punitive damages regarding the fourth and fifth causes of action for
professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. (CC, Prayer for Relief.) However,
Cross-Complainant does not plead any conduct constituting oppression, fraud, or
malice under Civil Code section 3294. Cross-Complainant alleges that
Cross-Defendants improperly delegated responsibilities to unqualified
individuals, failed to account for various invoices, improperly calculating
sales tax, confused assets and accrued expenses, improperly attributed cash
receipts, accounted for interest payments on loans as principal payments, provided
incorrect models, and failed to provide appropriate record-keeping. (CC ¶ 99.)
While such allegations may support the underlying causes of action, they do not
constitute despicable conduct justifying a punitive damages award. Cross-Complainant
does not allege actions done in a conscious disregard of their rights, rather they
allege negligent conduct. Nor do they offer any allegations of fraud. Thus, Cross-Complainant
has not pled facts which support punitive damages.
 
Cross-Complainant argues that punitive
damages are automatically available on a breach of fiduciary duty cause of
action. To be sure, punitive damages may be recovered on a breach of fiduciary
duty claim. (Heller v. Pillsbury Madison & Sutro (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1367, 1390.) However, this does not mean that punitive damages are
automatically authorized. A plaintiff must still meet the pleading requirements
of Civil Code section 3294 by alleging conduct which constitutes oppression,
fraud, or malice as defined under that section. Cross-Complainant has not done
so. Accordingly, the Court finds Cross-Complainant’s request for punitive
damages improper and the motion to strike is granted. Cross-Complainant is
granted leave to amend.
 
Conclusion:
 
Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is granted. Cross-Complainant is granted 15 days leave to
amend.