  Case Number:  19STCV45605    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  E  



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
OCTAVIO HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV45605




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
CITY OF INGLEWOOD; CITY OF LOS ANGELES; COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES; PHILLIP SHIN; BILL SHIN; SUSIE WHANG; UN SHIN; UN S. SHIN LIVING
  TRUST; REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.; CONSOLIDATED DISPOSAL SERVICE, LLC, and DOES
  1 to 100 inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:              September 18, 2024    
 
Moving Parties:          Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Octavio Hernandez
HEARING:                Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
            
 
RULING
The Court
considered the moving papers and opposition papers. CDS’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.

 

 
BACKGROUND
Factual and
Procedural Background
On December 19, 2019, Octavio Hernandez (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint
alleging two causes of action: (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence. Plaintiff filed suit against the City of Inglewood (Inglewood), the
City of Los Angeles (City of LA), the County of Los Angeles (County of LA),
Phillip Shin (Phillip), Bill Shin (Bill), Susie Whang (Whang), Un Shin (Un), Un
S. Shin Living Trust (the Trust), Republic Services Inc. (Republic), and
Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC (CDS).
 
            The suit surrounds an incident that
occurred on December 28, 2018, where Plaintiff alleges in his Complaint that he
was lawfully on 599 ½ S. La Brea Ave., Inglewood, CA 90301 (the Premises) “when
suddenly without notice, Plaintiff was injured by a dumpster that was not
properly stored, located, or secured and thus presented a dangerous condition.”
(Compl., ¶Prem.L-1.)  
 
            The motion now before the Court is
CDS’s Motion for Summary Judgment. Plaintiff opposes the Motion; no reply was
filed.  
 
Objections
            Concurrently filed with their
opposition papers, Plaintiff files 21 objections, one for each undisputed
material fact submitted by CDS. All objections are overruled.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Legal
Standard
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function
of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable
issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
            Although the Complaint does not
provide detail as to the incident unfolded and what injuries were suffered, the
parties filings do. On December 28, 2018, Plaintiff entered the premises just
before 10:00am and walked to the alleyway where the dumpsters were located. (Declaration
of Michael Willoughby, hereinafter Willoughby Decl., Exh. D.) Plaintiff then
moved the dumpster stating it was in the middle of the alley. Plaintiff pushed
the dumpster towards the wall and placed a piece of cardboard underneath the wheels
so that it would not move towards the alley. (Id. at pg. 21, 9-25.)
Plaintiff then climbed up into the dumpster, sitting on the rim with his feet
inside in order to collect recycling materials to sell. Plaintiff admits no one
gave him permission to enter into the dumpster. (Willoughby Decl., Exh. B, pg.
86:6-15.) As Plaintiff was doing so, he fell backwards onto the ground,
suffered injury, and received medical attention. (Id. at pgs. 22-23.) It
was later determined that Plaintiff suffered a cervical spine injury.  
 
The Court first notes with regard
to the material facts between the parties, all but one of the 21 facts filed by
CDS are disputed. The following discussion will center on the relevant facts to
the causes of action at issue.   
 
In their moving papers, CDS argues first that CDS does not own,
possess, nor control the Premises and there is no evidence to the contrary,
therefore the cause of action for premises liability fails. With regard to the
negligence action, CDS contends the dumpster was in no way a dangerous
condition until Plaintiff touched it.
 
            Upon opposition, Plaintiff argues
the opposite, that CDS indeed did control the Premises and with regard to the
negligence cause of action, the dumpster was a dangerous condition. The Court
disagrees and grants the Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
(1)  
Premises
Liability
“The elements of a cause of action
for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.” (Castellon v.
U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
 
First, is whether Defendant owned,
controlled, or managed the Premises. CDS contends they did not, and that
instead the Trust owned, possessed, and controlled the Premises. CDS points to
the Responses to the Special Interrogatories Propounded on Bill Shin, where the
Trust is identified as the owner. (See UMF 8 in CDS’s Separate Statement. Also
see Willoughby Decl., Exh. D, Special Interrogatory 1.) In Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement, this is disputed arguing CDS owned the dumpster. This is
unpersuasive because owning the dumpster is not the same as having control over
the Premises where the dumpster is located. Additionally, Plaintiff fails to
point to any evidence showing how ownership over the specific dumpster at issue
equates to ownership or control over the Premises for purposes of premises
liability. More specifically, the dumpster was located in an alleyway at the
time of the incident, the alleyway was owned, controlled, and maintained by
Inglewood. (Id. at Special Interrogatory 7.) Plaintiff argues that the
incline of the alleyway made it such that the container was unstable and CDS
should have taken steps to secure the dumpster. However, the injury at issue
had nothing to do with the dumpster rolling into Plaintiff. Plaintiff climbed
up onto the rim of the dumpster, and then fell. Additionally, if the alleyway
was at all defective, it is unclear how CDS is responsible for this, and Plaintiff
fails to put forth any evidence clarifying the issue. Without the element of
control of the Premises or the alleyway, the first cause of action for premises
liability must fail.         
 
(2)  
Negligence
“The elements of a cause of action
for professional negligence are (1) the existence of the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
 
            As to the
alleged dangerous condition on public property, the term “dangerous condition”
is defined in Gov. Code §830, subdivision (a), which states: “‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Huerta v. City of Santa Ana (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 41, 48. Citing Gov. Code §830(a).)
 
            With regard
to negligence, CDS makes two relevant arguments: (1) Plaintiff was not using
the dumpster for its intended purpose, and (2) Plaintiff was under the
influence of methamphetamine at the time of the incident. The Court takes each
argument in turn. 
 
            Upon
opposition to the first argument, Plaintiff contends Inglewood allows for “junk
collecting” citing to Inglewood’s municipal code, and even contends that
“dumpster diving” is a well-known activity within Los Angeles County. Plaintiff
continues, contending that CDS took no steps to allow customers to lock the
dumpsters or make it impossible to enter the dumpster without a key. However,
this ignores the fact that a dumpster’s intended purpose is for the storage of
waste until collection. Moreover, even if it is well-known that “dumpster
diving” occurs in Los Angeles County, Plaintiff provides no evidence that this
is a reasonably foreseeable use that poses a substantial risk of injury to
which CDS should have been on notice to mitigate. CDS argues generally speaking
it is not, the Court agrees.
 
            Second is
CDS’s argument that Plaintiff was under the influence of methamphetamine at the
time of the incident. Plaintiff objects arguing the medical records submitted
by CDS (Willoughby Decl., Exh. E) are inadmissible hearsay. The Court
disagrees, as medical records are records made in the regular course of
business of a hospital. (See Cal. Evid. Code §1271.) However, the Court must
rule the medical records inadmissible because, as specific to the toxicology
report, the document on its face notes the results are for medical use only and
the “unconfirmed screening results must not be used for non-medical purposes…”.
Therefore, the documents are inadmissible. 
 
            Of utmost
relevance is whether the dumpster was a “dangerous condition”. CDS argues in
the negative. CDS contends that in addition to no prior reports of injury, the
dumpster only became dangerous when Plaintiff used it in the manner it was not
intended to be used. The Court agrees. Plaintiff fails to provide any
substantial evidence of the dumpster as a “dangerous condition”. The argument
that the dumpster was placed on a drastic slope, without wheel locks, creating
a “rollaway hazard” to the public is unpersuasive. The injury Plaintiff
suffered occurred because Plaintiff was sitting on the dumpster, and then fell
off of it. It is unclear how fixing the slope CDS was not responsible for or
placing wheel locks on the dumpster would have prevented the injury Plaintiff
suffered. Again, as the burden shifts to Plaintiff, Plaintiff provides no
evidence to carry their burden and clarify the issue. Therefore, the Motion is
granted as to the second cause of action.     
 
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, CDS’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
OCTAVIO HERNANDEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV45605




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
CITY OF INGLEWOOD; CITY OF LOS ANGELES; COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES; PHILLIP SHIN; BILL SHIN; SUSIE WHANG; UN SHIN; UN S. SHIN LIVING
  TRUST; REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.; CONSOLIDATED DISPOSAL SERVICE, LLC, and DOES
  1 to 100 inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:              September 18, 2024    
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Phillip Shin, Bill Shin,
and Susie Whang
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Octavio Hernandez
HEARING:                Defendants’
Motion to Bifurcate
             
 
RULING
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition papers, and reply papers. Defendants
Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.  


 

 
BACKGROUND
Factual and
Procedural Background
On December 19, 2019, Octavio Hernandez (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint
alleging two causes of action: (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence. Plaintiff filed suit against the City of Inglewood (Inglewood), the
City of Los Angeles (City of LA), the County of Los Angeles (County of LA), Phillip
Shin (Phillip), Bill Shin (Bill), Susie Whang (Whang), Un Shin (Un), Un S. Shin
Living Trust (the Trust), Republic Services Inc. (Republic), and Consolidated
Disposal Service, LLC (CDS).
 
            The suit surrounds an incident that
occurred on December 28, 2018, where Plaintiff alleges in his Complaint that he
was lawfully on 599 ½ S. La Brea Ave., Inglewood, CA 90301 “when suddenly
without notice, Plaintiff was injured by a dumpster that was not properly
stored, located, or secured and thus presented a dangerous condition.” (Compl.,
¶Prem.L-1.) 
 
            The motion now before the Court is Defendants
Phillip Shin, Bill Shin, and Susie Whang’s Motion to Bifurcate (the Motion).
Plaintiff opposes the Motion, Defendants Phillip, Bill, and Whang (hereinafter,
Moving Defendants) file a reply. 
 
Objections
            Concurrently
filed with their opposition papers, Plaintiff files objections to the
Declaration of Charles A. Phillips (Phillips Decl.). Plaintiff objects to
paragraph 3 which states “…Plaintiff’s medical records indicate he had made a
significant recovery from the injuries he suffered...” and paragraph 4 which
states “…whether Plaintiff was high on crystal meth at the time of the
incident. Medical records contain entries that support this conclusion…”. Both
objections are made on the ground that the medical records relied on to make
these statements have not been properly authenticated pursuant to Cal. Evid.
Code §1562. The Court agrees and sustains the objection.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 provides, “The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial . . . of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) The objective
behind a bifurcation of liability from damages is to avoid “the waste of time
and money caused by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases where
the liability issue is resolved against the plaintiff." (Trickey v.
Superior Court In and For Sacramento County (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 650,
653.) Bifurcation of claims or issues is a matter within the court's
discretion. (McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal. App. 3d 343, 353.)
 
Analysis
As noted in the moving papers, the case surrounds an injury Plaintiff suffered,
after falling off a dumpster he climbed into for trash/recycling collection
purposes. There is no indication Plaintiff was affiliated or working with a
trash or recycling collection company but was collecting recycling material
voluntarily. Plaintiff suffered a cervical spine injury that left him partially
paralyzed. The parties disagree about whether Plaintiff had permission to be on
the premises searching through the dumpster that day.[1] Additionally,
there are no known witnesses to Plaintiff’s fall, other than Plaintiff.    
 
            In their moving papers, Moving
Defendants’ primary argument is the issues of liability and damages have little
overlap and should be tried separately so as to avoid the unfair prejudice that
may occur when a jury is exposed to a Plaintiff with severe injuries. Upon
opposition, Plaintiff counters arguing there is significant overlap in the
evidence surrounding liability and damages and bifurcation would not promote
judicial economy. Moreover, Plaintiff contends any concern regarding unfair
prejudice on the part of the jury can be resolved with proper jury instruction.
Upon reply, Moving Defendants disagree, arguing jury instructions can and do
fail to mitigate prejudice, and that depending on how the jury rules on
liability, there may be no need for a damages hearing if Plaintiff is found to
be at fault. The Court agrees and grants the Motion. 
 
            Based on the facts in
the Complaint and presented by the parties’ filings, it is possible Plaintiff
may be found liable for his own injuries. The Court agrees that the severity of
Plaintiff’s injuries could color the jury’s judgment and persuade the jury in a
manner that burdens Moving Defendants with unfair prejudice. When it comes to
“unfair” prejudice, “great latitude is allowed in appealing to the sympathies
of the jury[.]” (Aydlott v. Key System Transit Co. (1930) 104 Cal.App.
621, 628.) “It is only the most extreme case where an instruction to the jury,
if given, would not remove the effect of” juror prejudice, passion, or resentment.
(Ibid.) The Court concludes that such an extreme case may be at bar.
Plaintiff’s witness list is extensive, and will no doubt include doctors to
attest to the severity of his injuries, and family to attest to the daily impact.
It is in the discretion of the Court to whether to utilize bifurcation as a
tool to minimize any unfair prejudice this testimony could cause as to
liability. 
 
Defendant’s argument for bifurcation on the ground that it promotes
judicial economy is undoubtedly persuasive. Potentially eliminating the need
for a damages phase will always weigh in favor of efficiency. The issue of the
injuries suffered can be separated from which party is liable. Here is where
bifurcation is appropriate.    
 
CONCLUSION
            Accordingly, Defendants
Phillip Shin, Bill Shin, and Susie Whang’s Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.



