 Case Number:  23STCV09530    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32      LEXI BURROWS, et al.,                         Plaintiffs,             v.   TOUCHSTONE GOLF, LLC,    et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  23STCV09530   Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: plaintiff’s motions to compel compliance    with prior court orders and with statements of compliance (CRS# 1759 &    7870)               BACKGROUND             On April 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Lexi  Burrows and Brooklynn Lundberg filed this employment action against Defendants  Touchstone Golf, LLC, Ashley Walston, Peter Wagner, and the City of Burbank.  Plaintiffs assert claims stemming from harassment, discrimination and  retaliation, wrongful termination, and wage violations. Plaintiffs allege that  they experienced and spoke out against sexual harassment and discrimination,  and reported illegal or unsafe working conditions, only to suffer retaliation  for doing so.               On November 22, 2023, the Court  granted Plaintiffs’ motions to compel Touchstone Golf to produce further  responses to requests for production, interrogatories, and requests for  admission within 15 days. The Court found Touchstone’s objections based on  arbitration, vagueness, privilege, and privacy to be without merit. The Court  ordered Touchstone to provide a privilege log if Touchstone withheld any  documents based on privilege.  Touchstone did not provide further  responses within 15 days of November 22, 2023, and in its late supplemental  responses, reasserted the objections previously found meritless. This prompted  Plaintiffs to file a motion for sanctions for noncompliance. On March 8, 2024,  the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions upon finding that Touchstone  provided responses after a minor, inadvertent delay. However, the Court also  found that Touchstone had not completed producing supplemental responses and  ordered Touchstone to complete its production in accordance with the prior  order within 10 days, and also to produce documents in accordance with its own  statements of compliance. The Court also reminded Touchstone of the  previously-overruled objections and the requirement to provide a privilege log  for documents withheld on privilege grounds.   On July 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion  to compel Touchstone’s compliance with the Court’s November 22, 2023 and March  8, 2024 orders on the grounds that Touchstone still refuses to produce  compliant responses. On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Burrows filed a motion to  compel Defendant Touchstone to comply with its statements of compliance in RFP,  Set Three. On August 5, 2024, the Court ordered the parties to further meet and  confer and then submit additional briefing on each discovery request still  outstanding. Plaintiffs filed their supplemental brief on August 30, 2024.  Touchstone filed its supplemental brief on September 6, 2024.  DISCUSSION  I.  Plaintiff Burrows’ Discovery Requests   a. RFPs Set One             Touchstone’s responses to RFP  Nos. 1, 2, 75-78, and 82-83 do not constitute code-compliant statements of  compliance. A statement of compliance “shall state that the production . . .  will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in  the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that  party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the  production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) Merely identifying the one document  that it plans on producing is insufficient.                Touchstone’s responses to RFP  Nos. 59-62 and 64 do not constitute code-compliant statements of inability  to comply. “A representation of inability to comply . . . shall affirm that a  diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply  with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to  comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,  has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the  possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall  set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or  believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or  category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.) Touchstone cannot simply aver  that it is “not aware” of responsive documents.              Touchstone’s response to RFP Nos.  36-47 and 51 improperly limit “me too” evidence to Plaintiffs’ complaints  only. “Me too” evidence may be used to establish a defendant’s discriminatory  intent through a pattern of wrongdoing. (Pantoja v. Anton (2011) 198  Cal.App.4th 87, 115.) This goes beyond Plaintiffs’ complaints.              The motion is GRANTED as to Burrows  RFPs Set One Nos. 1, 2, 36-47, 51, 59-62, 64, 75-78, and 82-83.              b. SROGs Set One             Plaintiffs argue that SROG Nos.  2-4, 66, 69, 75, and 78 are incomplete responses with no details provided.  However, Plaintiffs fail to explain how the responses are incomplete.  Plaintiffs’ dissatisfaction with the level of detail is not a reason to compel  further responses.    Touchstone’s responses to SROG Nos. 5,  11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 31-37, 46, 58, 60, 61, and 76 reference documents under  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230. Touchstone has not made the requisite  showing to invoke section 2030.230, i.e., that answering the SROGs would  require “the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of” documents,  and the burden of doing so is the same for both parties. Reference to external  documents is not warranted merely because the answer to an interrogatory may be  found within. If Touchstone can answer the interrogatories, it must simply do  so. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a) [“Each answer in a response to  interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information  reasonably available to the responding party permits”].)              Plaintiffs argue that the responses  to SROG Nos. 18, 38, 62, 68, 71, 77, 80, and 82 fail to provide the  contact information of witnesses. Plaintiffs do not explain how the responses  fail to provide witness information. The responses are sufficient if Touchstone  stated that the witnesses can be contacted through counsel. To the extent  Touchstone redacted witness information from its document production, that has  no bearing on the written responses to SROGs.              Plaintiff argues that the responses  to SROG Nos. 19-24, and 39-41 assert improper objections of “legal  conclusion” and “argumentative” to limit the responses. Plaintiffs do not  explain how these objections limited the responses. Plaintiffs do not argue  that the responses lack responsive information. Touchstone may assert  objections to preserve them while simultaneously providing a substantive  response.              The motion is GRANTED as to Burrows  SROGs Set One Nos. 5, 11, 13-14, 16-17, 31-37, 46, 58, 60-61, and 76.                          c. EFROGs Set One             Plaintiffs argue that the responses  to EFROG Nos. 216.1 and 217.1 are evasive without explanation. The Court  cannot determine whether the responses are sufficient.              Touchstone’s response to EFROG  No. 209.2 on “me too” evidence is improperly limited to sexual harassment  complaints only.               The motion is GRANTED as to Burrows  EFROGs Set One No. 209.2.        II.  Plaintiff Lundberg’s Discovery Requests             a. RFPs Set One             Touchstone’s responses to RFP  Nos. 1, 2, 75-78, and 82-83 do not constitute code-compliant statements of  compliance or inability to comply.              Touchstone’s responses to RFP  Nos. 36-48 and 52 improperly limit “me too” evidence to Plaintiffs’  complaints only.              The motion is GRANTED as to Lundberg  RFPs Set One Nos. 1, 2, 36-48, 52, 75-78, and 82-83.              b. SROGs Set One             Plaintiffs argue that the responses  to SROG Nos. 2-4, 9-10, 12, 15-16, and 18-21 are evasive or incomplete.  However, Plaintiffs provide no explanation, and the Court cannot determine the  sufficiency of the responses.              Touchstone’s responses to SROG  Nos. 5, 7, 8 and 11 improperly invoke Code of Civil Procedure section  2030.230 without showing that a compilation is required.             The motion is GRANTED as to Lundberg  SROGs Set One Nos. 5, 7, 8, and 11.              c. EFROGs Set One             Plaintiffs argue that the responses  to EFROG Nos. 216.1 and 217.1 are evasive without explanation. The Court  cannot determine whether the responses are sufficient.              Touchstone’s response to EFROG  No. 209.2 on “me too” evidence is improperly limited to sexual harassment  complaints only.                The motion is GRANTED as to Lundberg  EFROGs Set One No. 209.2.                        III.  Compliance with Statements of Compliance   a. ESI and Email Attachments A party demanding the production of  electronically stored information (ESI) “may specify the form or forms in which  each type of electronically stored information is to be produced.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.030(a)(2).) “If a demand for production does not  specify a form or forms for producing a type of electronically stored  information, the responding party shall produce the information in the form or  forms in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a form that is reasonably  usable.” (Id., § 2031.280(d)(1), emphasis added.)   Here, the RFPs do specify the form  of ESI to be produced. (See, e.g., Schein Decl., Ex. 3 [“Electronically  stored information shall be produced in native format or, should the parties  agree, in some other mutually agreeable format”].) When Touchstone responded to  the RFPs with statements of compliance, it did not object to this instruction,  and the parties did not agree to another format. Therefore, Touchstone agreed  to produce documents in native format. Because the production demand specifies  a form of production, Touchstone cannot simply produce documents in any form it  deems “reasonably usable.” Instead, Touchstone must comply with its own  agreement to produce documents in native format. For emails, this also means  producing the entire email, including attachments.  b. Incomplete Production If Touchstone represented that it would  produce all responsive documents in its possession, then it must do so. This  includes documents evidencing audio and video surveillance of Plaintiffs (RFP  Nos. 79-81). However, Plaintiffs’ skepticism as to the completeness of the  production is not a reason to compel a further response. Touchstone cannot be  compelled to produce documents that it does not have. c. Labeling Requirement “Any documents or category of documents  produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling  shall be identified with the specific request number to which the documents  respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280(a).) Touchstone shall either label its  document production accordingly or amend its RFP responses to provide the bates  numbers of responsive documents.   CONCLUSION             Plaintiffs’ motion to compel  compliance with court orders is GRANTED in part as set forth above. Plaintiffs’  motion to compel compliance with statements of compliance in RFPs Set Three is  GRANTED.              Touchstone shall provide further  responses as set forth above, and produce all responsive documents in  accordance with its statements of compliance, within 30 days of this order. ESI  shall be produced in native format, and emails shall be produced with  attachments. Documents produced must be labeled according to the RFP they  respond to, or the RFP responses shall identify the bates numbers of responsive  documents.               Sanctions are GRANTED.  Touchstone shall pay sanctions to Plaintiff in  the amount of  $________________________.  These sanctions shall be payable within 30  days of this order.    


 
LEXI BURROWS, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
TOUCHSTONE GOLF, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV09530
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel pmk
  deposition (CRS# 8095) 




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On April 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Lexi
Burrows and Brooklynn Lundberg filed this employment action against Defendants
Touchstone Golf, LLC, Ashley Walston, Peter Wagner, and the City of Burbank.
Plaintiffs assert claims stemming from harassment, discrimination and
retaliation, wrongful termination, and wage violations. Plaintiffs allege that
they experienced and spoke out against sexual harassment and discrimination,
and reported illegal or unsafe working conditions, only to suffer retaliation
for doing so.  

            On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion to compel the deposition of Touchstone’s PMK. Touchstone
filed its opposition on September 9, 2024. Plaintiffs filed their reply on
September 13, 2024.

LEGAL STANDARD

“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination . . . or
to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)

DISCUSSION 

            The deposition topics and document
demands at issue pertain to Touchstone’s document retention policies.
Plaintiffs’ basis for seeking this information is Touchstone’s production of
documents in response to written RFPs, which Plaintiffs contend is incomplete.
For example, Plaintiffs contend that Touchstone could not have produced all
responsive communications with Plaintiff Burrows because Burrows herself
possesses around 80 emails that are missing from Touchstone’s production.
(Schein Decl. ¶ 16.) During meet and confer, when questioned about the
completeness of Touchstone’s production and the person in charge of searching
for responsive information, Touchstone’s counsel refused to answer and stated
that Plaintiffs could conduct a PMK deposition for the information. (Schein
Decl., Ex. 7.)  

            Touchstone contends that this
information is irrelevant to the claims asserted in the complaint. However,
information pertaining to the veracity of Touchstone’s discovery responses, the
completeness of its document production, and its retention of evidence is
directly relevant to the case. This information is properly sought in a PMK
deposition, as Touchstone’s own counsel acknowledged. 

            The Court finds that there is good
cause for the deposition and that Touchstone has not articulated any valid
reason to withhold the requested information. 

CONCLUSION

            Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
deposition is GRANTED. Touchstone shall designate and produce a Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable on the topics listed in the deposition notice and produce the
documents demanded in the notice. Sanctions are denied.  

 