 Case Number:  BC454901    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEONARD W. BORISOFF,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THE PULLMAN GROUP, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC454901
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
attorney’s fees




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 10, 2011, plaintiff
Leonard W. Borisoff (“Borisoff”), a composer, filed a complaint against
defendants the Pullman Group, LLC; Wertheim, LLC; David Pullman; and Broadcast
Music, Inc. Defendants prevailed in the compelled arbitration proceeding and
were awarded ownership of Borisoff’s past and future royalties and attorney
fees of $67,866.13. On October 3, 2013, Defendants petitioned the Court to
confirm the award, which the Court did on January 15, 2014, with a final
judgment entered on August 27, 2014. Borisoff appealed the judgment. The Court
of Appeal reversed the judgment. On February 4, 2021, the Currency Corp
(“Plaintiff”) was substituted as Borisoff’s successor in interest after he
passed away in 2020.
            On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint, alleging (1) fraud, (2) intentional
interference with contract, and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants
Pullman Group, David Pullman, and Wertheim LLC. Plaintiff has since dismissed
the first two causes of action, leaving only declaratory relief.       
On February 14, 2024, the Court denied
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, finding that there was a present
controversy notwithstanding the appellate finding that the contracts at issue
were invalid. The Court held that although the Court of Appeal’s opinion is the
law of the case, there has been no final judgment to that effect, and thus the
controversy is ongoing. In fact, given that both parties acknowledge the
contracts are void, the Court suggested that judgment be entered in favor of
Plaintiff. On March 20, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ motion for
reconsideration of the MSJ ruling, noting again that Defendants’ concessions
were essentially admissions that Plaintiff was entitled to declaratory relief.  
On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
for judgment on the pleadings on the basis of the Court’s rulings and
Defendants’ admissions. The Court granted the motion on May 29, 2024. Judgment
was entered accordingly on June 18, 2024. Judgment was entered in favor of
Plaintiff against Defendants, and Plaintiff was declared the prevailing party.
Plaintiff was awarded costs, with attorney’s fees to be determined by motion as
permitted by law.
On August 19 and 22, 2024, Plaintiff and
Defendants filed directly conflicting motions for attorney’s fees. The parties
filed their respective oppositions on September 9, 2024. The parties filed
their respective replies on September 13, 2024.  
As both motions address identical issues,
the Court addresses both motions herein. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032(b).) Attorney’s fees are
recoverable as costs under section 1032 when authorized by contract, statute,
or law. (Id., § 1033.5(a)(10).) “Thus, recoverable litigation costs do
include attorney fees, but only when the party entitled to costs has a legal
basis, independent of the cost statutes and grounded in an agreement, statute,
or other law, upon which to claim recovery of attorney fees.” (Santisas v.
Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606.)
“In any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in
addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717(a).) “Reasonable attorney’s fees
shall be fixed by the court, and shall be an element of the costs of suit.” (Ibid.)
“[S]ection 1717 applies to contracts
containing reciprocal as well as unilateral attorney fee provisions, including
provisions . . . authorizing recovery of attorney fees by a ‘prevailing
party.’” (Santisas, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 614.) “[S]ection 1717
applies only to actions that contain at least one contract claim.” (Id.
at p. 615.) “If an action asserts both contract and tort or other noncontract
claims, section 1717 applies only to attorney fees incurred to litigate the
contract claims.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff prevailed on the remaining
declaratory relief claim. The rule is that the prevailing party is entitled to
recover its costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032.) However, attorney’s fees are only
recoverable as costs if authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Id., §
1033.5(a)(10); Santisas, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 606.) Here, Plaintiff
relies on a contractual provision which provided the following: 
 
“The parties agree
that any controversy or claim whatsoever arising out of or relating in anyway
to this agreement and or transaction(s) . . . shall be settled by arbitration .
. . The losing party shall reimburse the prevailing party for its reasonable outside
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred with respect to such arbitration
proceeding.” 
(Reback
Decl., Ex. 1, § 18.) 
            The attorney’s fees provision
relates to arbitration and only applies to fees incurred “with respect to”
arbitration. It is true that “a contract provision that permits the recovery of
fees in arbitration is broad enough to include fees in related judicial
proceedings.” (Ajida Techs. v. Roos Instruments (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
534, 552.) However, this refers to court proceedings such as an appeal from the
judgment confirming an arbitration award, a petition to appoint an arbitrator,
or a motion to confirm or vacate an arbitration award. (California Union
Square L.P. v. Saks & Co. LLC (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 136, 145.) 
            By contrast, the court proceedings
at issue here pertained to Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim, which sought
to determine that Defendants had no right to Borisoff’s royalties. These cannot
be considered judicial proceedings related to arbitration within the meaning of
Ajida and California Union Square. Plaintiff has already been
awarded fees related to contesting the arbitrability of the dispute, including
vacating the award, opposing Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, and
litigating the associated appeals. (See Plntf.’s Mtn. 4:10-7:12 [summarizing
procedural history and court orders awarding fees].) The arbitration issue has
concluded, and the subsequent proceedings to disavow Defendants’ rights to the
royalties were not related to arbitration. Thus, the attorney’s fees incurred
in such proceedings were not incurred “with respect to” arbitration. 
            Although the claims and issues that
would have been arbitrated are the same ones that were ultimately litigated in
court, that alone does not make the court proceedings “related to” arbitration.
Otherwise, the limitation in the attorney’s fees clause would be meaningless,
as any claim litigated in court would necessarily be “related to” arbitration,
and the attorney’s fees clause would end up providing for fees in any dispute
between the parties.    
            Plaintiff argues that it should not
be forced to bear the costs of a litigation that Defendants prolonged by
refusing to stipulate to a declaratory judgment. However, “an agreement for the
payment of attorney fees must be interpreted in accordance with its terms,
without regard to whether it might appear ‘fair’ in a given circumstance.” (Kalai
v. Gray (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 768, 771.) In this case, the agreement does
not provide for attorney’s fees in all disputes between the parties
related to the contract; instead, it clearly limits attorney’s fees to those
incurred “with respect to” arbitration. Because that is what the parties agreed
to, “equity is irrelevant.” (Id. at p. 777.) “Moreover, the ‘inequitable’
result bemoaned by [Plaintiff] is nothing more than the traditional ‘American
rule’ that each party to litigation must bear his own fees.” (Ibid.) 
            Because the contractual attorney’s
fees provision does not apply to the proceedings at issue, there is no
contractual basis for the recovery of attorney’s fees. Plaintiff does not
otherwise claim a statutory basis for attorney’s fees. Without a contractual or
statutory basis, attorney’s fees are not recoverable. For these reasons,
neither party is entitled to attorney’s fees. This mandates denial of both
parties’ motions for attorney’s fees. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s
fees is DENIED. Defendants’ motion for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 