 Case Number:  24STCV04373    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
GILBERTO RODRIGUEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
QUALITY FABRICATION
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV04373
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant quality fabrication inc.’s
  motion to compel arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff
Gilberto Rodriguez filed this employment discrimination action against
Defendants Quality Fabrication Inc., TriNet Group Inc, and Tom Witzigman. 
            On August 20, 2024, Defendant
Quality Fabrication Inc. (QFI) filed the instant motion to compel arbitration.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 9, 2024. Defendant filed its reply
on September 13, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) 
            Here, on August 20, 2019, Plaintiff
signed a TriNet Terms and Conditions Agreement (TCA) which contains a Dispute
Resolution Protocol (DRP). (Lafreniere Decl., Ex. A.) The DRP “covers any
dispute arising out of or relating to your co-employment with
TriNet, including your TriNet co-employer, and/or arising out of
or relating to your employment with your company, as well as any
dispute with an employee, officer, or director of TriNet or of a TriNet
customer (all of whom, in addition to TriNet customers, are intended to
be beneficiaries of this DRP).” (Id., § 9(a), emphasis
added.) 
            The DRP is written this way because
TriNet is a professional employer organization that provides human resource
services and “share[s] certain employer responsibilities” with its customers as
“co-employers.” (Lafreniere Decl., Ex. A, § 1.) A “TriNet Customer” is the
company that an employee directly works for, also referred to as “your worksite
employer,” “your company,” or “my company.” (Ibid.) 
            The DRP expressly covers “any
dispute” arising from an employee’s “co-employment” with TriNet and the
“co-employer.” (Lafreniere Decl., Ex. A, § 9(a).) Plaintiff does not dispute
that QFI is a “TriNet Customer” who co-employed Plaintiff in the manner
described in the TCA. Because the claims asserted in the complaint arise from
Plaintiff’s employment with QFI, they fall under the DRP. Therefore, QFI has
satisfied its burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement
covering the claims at issue. 
II.
Third-Party Beneficiary 
            “The general rule is that only a
party to an arbitration agreement may enforce it.” (Ronay Family Limited
Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 837.) However, one
exception to the general rule is that “a third party beneficiary of an
arbitration agreement may enforce it.” (Id. at p. 838.) “A contract,
made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any
time before the parties thereto rescind it.” (Civ. Code, § 1559.) “It is ‘not
necessary that the beneficiary be named and identified as an individual. A
third party may enforce a contract where he shows that he is a member of a
class of persons for whose benefit it was made.’” (Ronay, supra, 216
Cal.App.4th at pp. 838-39.) 
            As mentioned above, the DRP
expressly covers disputes with the “TriNet Customer,” “co-employer,” or “your
company.” (Lafreniere Decl., Ex. A, § 9(a).) The DRP expressly provides that a
TriNet Customer is “intended to be [a] beneficiar[y] of this DRP.” (Ibid.)
Again, Plaintiff does not dispute that QFI is the customer, co-employer, and
company in this case. Thus, while QFI is not directly named in the agreement,
it “is a member of a class of persons for whose benefit [the agreement] was
made.’” (See Ronay, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at pp. 838-39.) This is
sufficient to establish QFI as a third-party beneficiary under the TCA.
Therefore, QFI is entitled to enforce the arbitration provision. 
III.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
 
 
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
            1.
Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
unconscionable because it was presented as a condition of employment. First, Plaintiff
has no evidence of this fact, thus failing his burden to prove
unenforceability. (See Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) In any
case, even if the contract had been presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis,
that would raise only a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability,
insufficient to render the contract unenforceable. (See Serpa v. California
Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.) 
            2.
Failure to Attach Arbitration Rules
Next, Plaintiff argues that the agreement
fails to attach the JAMS rules. However, “the failure to attach the
[arbitration] rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a
finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) 
The DRP clearly states that arbitration
will proceed under “the applicable employment arbitration rules and procedures
of [JAMS] . . . then in effect.” (Lafreniere Decl., Ex. A, § 9(c).) The DRP
also informs the reader that “JAMS’ Employment Arbitration Rules may be found
on the internet at www.jamsadr.com or by using an internet search engine to
locate the ‘JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules.’” (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff argues, again without evidence,
that he is unable to identify the applicable rules. However, the agreement
clearly identifies the JAMS Employment Rules and provides instructions on how
to access them. Plaintiff presents no evidence that he is unable to locate the
rules from the information provided. Plaintiff also argues that the rules are
amended over time. But the DRP incorporates the JAMS rules “then in effect.”
Thus, there is no confusion as to which rules govern.
In sum, the Court finds no procedural
unconscionability. 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)  
Plaintiff outlines the standards for
substantive unconscionability of an arbitration agreement but then makes no
assertion regarding the particular agreement in this case. (See Opp. 7:3-15.)
Plaintiff fails to show that the DRP does not provide for a neutral arbitrator,
adequate discovery, or a written decision. 
The only purported defect with the DRP
that Plaintiff identifies is an alleged failure to “limit the cost of
arbitration.” (Opp. 7:16-28.) For an arbitration agreement to be valid, the
employer must bear all costs unique to arbitration. (Armendariz v.
Foundational Health Psychcare Servs. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 111-12.) Here,
the DRP provides the following:
 
“In all cases
where the law requires it, TriNet (and, if applicable, any TriNet customer or
employee(s) of either TriNet or a TriNet customer interested in enforcing this
DRP for its/their own benefit) will pay the arbitrator's and arbitration fees.
In cases in which apportionment of the arbitrator's and arbitration fees is
permitted by applicable law, these fees will be divided between the parties as
is required by law and determined by the arbitrator.” 
(Lafreniere
Decl., Ex. A, § 9(d).) 
            Plaintiff complains that this
provision does not expressly specify QFI as the party responsible for the costs
unique to arbitration, nor specify that Plaintiff will not be
responsible for such costs. However, the DRP provides that TriNet, the TriNet
Customer, or employee of the TriNet Customer will pay the costs of arbitration
“if applicable” and “where the law requires it.” In other words, responsibility
for arbitration costs under the DRP depends on applicable law. Here, applicable
law requires TriNet or QFI, not Plaintiff, to bear the costs unique to
arbitration. Thus, the DRP does not require Plaintiff to bear any costs unique
to arbitration. The fact that the agreement is not phrased in the way Plaintiff
prefers does not make it substantively unconscionable.   
            As this is the only potential defect
identified by Plaintiff, the Court finds no substantive unconscionability.
Without either procedural or substantive unconscionability, the DRP remains
enforceable. 
IV.
Timeliness
            Plaintiff argues that the motion is
untimely because he granted QFI an extension to August 12, 2024 to respond to
the complaint, but QFI waited until August 20, 2024 to file this motion.
Plaintiff cites no authority suggesting that this makes the motion untimely.
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.5, cited by Plaintiff, relates to
arbitration involving a claim of lien. There is no claim of lien in this case,
thus the deadlines in section 1281.5 are irrelevant. The Court finds that the
motion is timely.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Quality Fabrication Inc.’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The Court hereby stays the case in its
entirety. 