  Case Number:  23STCV02179    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEE NEWSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV02179
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Lee
Newson filed this action against Defendant City of Los Angeles, asserting (1)
disability discrimination, (2) workplace harassment, (3) retaliation, and (4)
failure to prevent. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he was
prevented from promotion to detective due to discrimination against his
disabilities. Plaintiff alleges that he was falsely accused of DUI and arrested
because Defendant is aware he takes prescribed medication for prior injuries
and conditions. Defendant allegedly used this as a pretext to block Plaintiff’s
promotion to detective. Plaintiff was ultimately suspended for 22 days without
pay. Upon return, Plaintiff was involuntarily transferred to a different
station. 
            On July 5, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 6, 2024. Defendant filed its reply
on September 13, 2024.   
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled. 
Defendant did not file any
     objections. Argument in the reply brief does not constitute a valid
     objection. (See Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1354(b) [“All written objections
     to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other papers in
     support of or in opposition to the motion”].)  

DISCUSSION
I.
Discrimination and Retaliation
In order to establish a claim of
discrimination, Plaintiff must prove: (1) they are in a protected class; (2) an
adverse employment action was taken against them; (3) at the time of the
adverse action they were satisfactorily performing their jobs; and (4) some
other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel
(2000) 24 Cal. 4th 317, 355.) To
establish a prima facie case of FEHA retaliation, Plaintiff must show: (1) he
engaged in a “protected activity”; (2) the employer subjected him to an adverse
employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action. (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244.)  
Under the McDonnell-Douglas
framework, (1) the plaintiff must initially establish a prima facie case of
discrimination or retaliation, (2) the defendant must then articulate a
legitimate nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) in response, the
plaintiff must show that this explanation is pretextual. (Patten v. Grant
Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)
Therefore, on summary judgment, the defendant employer must either undermine an
element of the plaintiff’s prima facie case, or provide a legitimate
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. (Cornell v.
Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.) 
 
a. Adverse Employment Action
            An adverse employment action is any
“course or pattern of conduct that, taken as a whole, materially and adversely
affected the terms, and conditions of a plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v.
Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1063.) 
            Plaintiff identified the following
adverse employment actions in his discovery responses: (1) removal from
detectives unit; (2) workplace arrest; and (3) disciplinary proceedings.
(Def.’s Ex. J, Resp. to FROG No. 202.1.) Defendant fails to explain why these
are not adverse employment actions. Defendant argues that it had valid reasons
for carrying out the actions, but that has no bearing on whether they are
adverse employment actions. A reasonable jury may find that the challenged
actions constitute a course or pattern of conduct that materially affected
Plaintiff’s employment. Therefore, the claims do not fail for lack of an
adverse employment action. 
b. Causal Link
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has no
evidence of causation, i.e., that the adverse actions were based on his
medical condition or protected activity. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s
personal speculation is insufficient to establish causation. (See Diego v.
City of Los Angeles (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 338, 356 [“A plaintiffs’
subjective feelings or beliefs are not sufficient to support a discrimination
claim”].) 
However, Plaintiff’s superior, Lt. Rippe,
told Plaintiff that “you have a shitter problem and need to be close to a
toilet.” (Plntf.’s Stmt. of Add’l Facts (AF) 9.) When Plaintiff attempted to
explain his condition to Rippe, Rippe told Plaintiff that he was being rotated
out of the Detectives Unit. (Ibid.) A reasonable jury may view this as
evidence of disdain towards Plaintiff’s disability, i.e., discriminatory
intent. Plaintiff then complained to a captain about being targeted by Rippe
and was removed from the Detectives Unit within two weeks. (AF 11-12.) A
reasonable jury may find that this constitutes evidence of retaliatory intent. 
Therefore, there are triable issues of
fact suggesting that the adverse employment actions against Plaintiff were
motivated by discrimination and retaliation. 
c. Legitimate Reason
            A defendant employer may obtain
summary judgment by showing that it had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason
for taking the challenged adverse employment actions. (Cornell, supra, 18
Cal.App.5th at p. 926.) In the face of a nondiscriminatory reason, the
plaintiff must offer “substantial evidence” allowing a reasonable conclusion
that “the employer engaged in intentional discrimination.” (Foroudi v. The
Aerospace Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 992, 1007.) “[S]ummary judgment for
the employer may thus be appropriate where, given the strength of the
employer's showing of innocent reasons, any countervailing circumstantial
evidence of discriminatory motive, even if it may technically
constitute a prima facie case, is too weak to raise a rational inference that
discrimination occurred.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 362.) However, “[i]f triable issues of material fact exist whether
discrimination was a substantial motivating reason for the employer's adverse
employment action, even if the employer's professed legitimate reason has not
been disputed, the FEHA claim is not properly resolved on summary judgment.” (Husman
v. Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1168, 1186.) 
            Here, Defendant argues that it took
the challenged actions because it found that Plaintiff was under the influence
of drugs and could not safety discharge his duties. Specifically, Plaintiff was
first found to be impaired by drugs in 2011 and was reprimanded in writing that
another instance of similar misconduct would result in termination. (Def.’s
Stmt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 3-12.) Then, in June 2021, Plaintiff acted
strangely at work, resulting in a Drug Recognition Expert (DRE) being called.
(UF 20-24.) The DRE performed a sobriety test and drug influence examination
and concluded that Plaintiff was too impaired to drive. (UF 25-27.) Plaintiff
admitted to taking Soma, a muscle relaxant, and Xanax. (UF 26.) This was also
confirmed by a blood test. (UF 28.) Plaintiff was then arrested for driving
under the influence (because he drove to work) and placed on administrative
leave pending an internal affairs investigation. (UF 29-30.)  
            However, Plaintiff was ultimately
not criminally charged with DUI, and when Plaintiff challenged his discipline,
the Board of Rights overturned his discipline. (UF 31, 39-40.) Plaintiff
remains employed with the LAPD. (UF 42.) Plaintiff denies being intoxicated or
appearing intoxicated in June 2021, averring that he was merely joking around
with his coworkers. (AF 26.) A reasonable jury may find from this evidence that
the accusations against Plaintiff were unfounded. (See Soria
v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 594 [“pretext
may be demonstrated by showing the proffered reason had no basis in fact, the
proffered reason did not actually motivate the discharge, or, the proffered
reason was insufficient to motivate discharge”].)  
            Furthermore, under the “cat’s paw”
theory, a seemingly neutral personnel decision may be “tainted by [a
supervisor’s] prejudice.” (Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 95, 113.) Here, Lt. Rippe was involved in calling the DRE and
having Plaintiff investigated, and he specifically brought up Plaintiff’s
medication while Plaintiff was being questioned. (See UF 24; AF 20-23.) As
discussed above, Rippe potentially harbored discriminatory animus against
Plaintiff. Rippe had told another officer and Plaintiff that Plaintiff was not
going to make detective. (AF 10, 15.) The June 1, 2021 arrest occurred a mere
two days before Plaintiff was set to be promoted. (AF 18.) A reasonable jury
may find that Lt. Rippe harbored prejudice against Plaintiff and that this
prejudice motivated the investigation and arrest.
            Therefore, there are material
disputes of fact regarding Defendant’s proffered justification.    
 
 
II.
Harassment
            Harassment focuses on situations in which the social environment of the
workplace becomes intolerable because the harassment communicates an offensive
message to the harassed employee. (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 706.) “For . . . harassment to be actionable, it must be
sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the victim’s employment
and create an abusive working environment.” (Sheffield v. Los Angeles County
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 161, internal citations omitted.) “FEHA’s
prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ and are not designed to rid the
workplace of vulgarity.” (Ibid.) Thus, FEHA “does not outlaw sexually
coarse and vulgar language or conduct that merely offends.” (Lyle v. Warner
Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 295.) 
Nevertheless, “[a]
single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a triable issue
regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the harassing conduct
has unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work performance or created an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.” (Gov. Code, §
12923(b).) “[T]here is no requirement that the employee endure . . . harassment
until his or her psychological well-being is so spent that the employee
requires psychiatric assistance.” (Sheffield, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at
p. 161.)   
            Defendant
argues that the single instance of a supervisor allegedly telling Plaintiff “I
don’t think you’re going to make Detective” and instructing Plaintiff to sit
near a bathroom because he has a “shitter problem” does not constitute
sufficiently pervasive conduct. (See Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 457, 467 [“isolated incidents, such as the sporadic use of abusive
language, will not be actionable”].) However, as demonstrated above, those
comments were not the only instances of harassment. Plaintiff was also
questioned, investigated, and arrested based on potentially false accusations.
A reasonable jury may find that these incidents created “a hostile work
environment” that “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.” (See Gov. Code, § 12923(b); see also Roby, supra, 47
Cal.4th at p. 708 [“in some cases the hostile message that constitutes the
harassment is conveyed through official employment actions, and therefore
evidence that would otherwise be associated with a discrimination claim can
form the basis of a harassment claim”].) 
            Therefore,
there are triable issues of fact precluding summary adjudication of the
harassment claim. 
III. Failure to
Prevent
            Defendant
argues that this claim necessarily fails because the underlying discrimination,
retaliation, and harassment claims fail. However, those claims survive for the
reasons articulated above. Therefore, the derivative failure to prevent claim
survives as well.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is DENIED.
 