 Case Number:  22STCV28596    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  74 Jesus A. Carmaco, et al. v. American
Honda Motor Company, Inc. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) and Request for
Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a defective
2019 Honda Accord. 
            On
September 1, 2022, Plaintiffs Jesus Carmaco and Maria Luisa Carmaco
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Company,
Inc. (Defendant). The complaint alleges various claims under the Song-Beverly
Act.
            On
May 25, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded on Defendant requests for production of
documents (RFPs). 
            Defendant
responded on June 27, 2023, and provided documents on August 15, 2023.
Plaintiffs were dissatisfied.
            The
parties met and conferred to no avail.
            On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel further response to RFP
Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21.

LEGAL STANDARD 
            A
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response to a
demand for inspection if the propounding party deems that an answer or
statement of compliance is evasive or incomplete, or that an objection is
“without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause for the discovery sought and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (b), 2031.210, subd. (b).)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs seek further response to
RFP Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21. As a preliminary matter, the court finds Plaintiffs
have demonstrated good cause for their motion and the parties have sufficiently
met and conferred. The court also finds Defendant’s initial boilerplate
objections to the RFPs improper. (Korea Data Systems v. Superior Court (1997)
51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516.) Accordingly, the court will address each RFP at
issue and the objections Defendant expanded upon in its separate statement.
RFP No. 16
            This request seeks all documents,
including electronically stored information and emails, related to any internal
analysis or investigation Defendant conducted regarding the electrical defect
in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle. In
response, Defendant agrees to comply in part. But Defendant also raises several
objections. First, Plaintiffs’ definition of “electrical defect” includes
defects that are not a part of the subject vehicle’s repair history. Second,
Defendant claims information about electrical defects in vehicles other than
the subject vehicle is irrelevant. Third, Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs are
not entitled to emails and electronically stored information. And fourth,
Defendant objects that Plaintiffs are not entitled to information about the
electrical defects’ cause. The court only agrees with Defendant in part.
Defendant shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding
defects that were part of the subject vehicle’s repair history. To the extent
other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle
experienced those defects, Defendant shall also produce the applicable internal
analysis and investigation. This includes recall notices and technical service
bulletins. Defendant need not do a search of emails.
RFP No. 19
            This request seeks all documents,
including electronically stored information and emails, related to customer
complaints, reported failures, and warranty claims related to the electrical
defect. In response, Defendant raises the same objections, with which the court
only agrees in part. Defendant shall produce any customer complaints relating to
the same defects that arose in the subject vehicle’s repair history in vehicles
purchased in California for the same year, make, and model of the subject
vehicle. Defendant shall also produce warranty claims submitted to and/or
approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. 
RFP No. 20
            This request seeks all documents,
including electronically stored information and emails, related to failure
rates of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle as a
result of the electrical defect. In response, Defendant raises the same
objections, with which the court only agrees in part. Defendant shall produce
documents related to the failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the subject vehicle as a result of the same defects that arose in the
subject vehicle’s repair history.
RFP No. 21
            This
request seeks all documents, including electronically stored information and
emails, related to any fixes for the electrical defect in vehicle of the same
year, make, and model as the subject vehicle. Defendant raises the same
objections, with which the court agrees in part. Accordingly, Defendant need
only produce repair orders concerning the subject vehicle, in addition to
communications with the dealer or factory representative concerning the subject
vehicle. 
CONCLUSION
                The court grants Plaintiffs’ motion
to compel further response to RFP Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21 subject to the
limitations above. Defendant shall provide further Code-compliant responses and
produce responsive documents within 30 days of this order.
                Plaintiffs shall give notice.