 Case Number:  23STCV22347    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  74 You Hyuck
Lim v. Aviators, Inc., et al.
Defendants’ Demurrer to Complaint
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from an employment dispute.
            On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiff You Hyuck Lim (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendants Aviators, Inc. and Blake Purdy (Defendants).
            On
December 8, 2023, Defendants filed this demurrer, which targets the following
causes of action: (5) failure to pay overtime wages; (6) failure to reimburse
business expenses; (8) retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5;
(10) failure to pay wages due upon separation.
LEGAL STANDARD
            A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (¿¿Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318¿¿.) “¿To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿¿.) For the purpose of testing
the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿¿Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713¿¿.) DISCUSSION 
Fifth Cause of Action – Failure to
Pay Overtime Wages 
            Defendants argue this cause of
action fails for several reasons. First, Defendants contend Labor Code sections
204 and 510 require the employer to pay overtime wages. According to
Defendants, Plaintiff does not allege Defendant Purdy was Plaintiff’s employer.
But the complaint alleges Defendant Aviators employed Plaintiff, Defendant
Purdy owned Defendant Aviators, and the Defendants were alter-egos. (Complaint,
¶¶ 1, 3, 6.) This is sufficient for pleading purposes. Second, Defendants claim
Labor Code section 558.1 does not impose liability for overtime violations. As
Plaintiff notes, though, Labor Code section 558.1 covers violations of
provisions regulating hours and days of work in Industrial Welfare Commission
orders. Industrial Welfare Order No. 9 applies to Defendants’ business. Section
3 of the order entitles employees to receive overtime wages. Third, Defendants
assert Plaintiff has not demonstrated how Defendants deprived him of overtime
pay. The court disagrees. (Complaint, ¶¶ 30, 66.) Thus, the court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer for this cause of action.
Sixth Cause of Action – Failure to
Reimburse Business Expenses
            Defendants further argue Plaintiff
has not alleged facts sufficient to support this cause of action. Labor Code
section 2802 provides as follows: “An employer shall indemnify his or her
employee for all necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in
direct consequence of the discharge of his or her duties […].” Plaintiff
alleges he had to use his personal phone to perform his job duties, but
Defendants never reimbursed him for this expense. (Complaint, ¶ 27.) This is
sufficient. Thus, the court overrules Defendants’ demurrer for this cause of
action.
Eighth Cause of Action – Retaliation
in Violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5.
            Defendants contend this cause of
action fails as well because Plaintiff’s allegations are too conclusory. The
court disagrees. Under Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b), “An
employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate
against an employee for disclosing information […] to a person with authority
over the employee […] if the employee has reasonable cause to believe the
information discloses a violation [of some law].” Here, Plaintiff alleges he
disclosed to Defendant Purdy, who had authority over Plaintiff, that Defendants
had unlawfully deducted items from Plaintiff’s paystubs. (Complaint, ¶ 38.)
Moreover, Defendants allegedly terminated Plaintiff because of his disclosure.
(Complaint, ¶ 39.) These facts suffice for pleading purposes. The court
overrules Defendants’ demurrer for this cause of action.
Tenth Cause of Action – Failure to
Pay Wages Due Upon Separation 
            Defendants also argue that the
complaint lacks facts sufficient to support this cause of action. If an
employer discharges an employee, the wages earned and unpaid at the time of the
discharge are due and payable immediately. (Lab. Code, § 201.) Here, Plaintiff
alleges Defendants failed to pay him all his wages due at the time of his
termination. (Complaint, ¶ 40.) This is enough. The court overrules Defendants’
demurrer for this cause of action.
CONCLUSION 
The
court overrules Defendants’ demurrer.
Defendants
shall file and serve their answer within 20 days.
Defendants
shall give notice.