  Case Number:  21CMCV00048    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  A 21CMCV00048
 Hosam Saad Abdel Monem v. RHDM Oil, Inc., et al.
Thursday, June
 15, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS
MOHAMMED ANSARI, RHDM OIL, INC., AND THEIR ATTORNEYS 
 
 I.           
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
The third amended complaint (“TAC”) alleges that Plaintiff, Hosam Saad
Abdel Monem (“Monem”) and Defendant, Mohammed Ansari (“Ansari”), together agreed
to purchase Main Street Gas & Food Mart (the Mart). Defendants, Mohammed
Ali (“Ali”) and Eagles Mortgage, Inc. (“Eagles”) collectively “Broker
Defendants,” served as agents/brokers on behalf of Plaintiff and Ansari in the
purchase of the Mart. 
Plaintiff Monem alleges that Defendants tricked Plaintiff into signing
amended escrow instructions in which the buyer of the Mart would be Defendant,
RHDM Oil, Inc. (“RHDM”) instead of Monem and Ansari, with Plaintiff holding a two-thirds
ownership interest in RHDM. Plaintiff alleges that he has not received any
shares of RHDM and has been working for RHDM as an employee. Plaintiff
alleges claims for theft by false pretenses, breach of fiduciary duty, conversion,
accounting, and for an appointment of receiver. 
RHDM and
Ansari (Cross-Complainants) filed a cross-complaint against Monem, Hesham
Elbialy; Elbialy Group, Inc.; HM Petroleum Group, Inc, and Elamir Oil, Inc. (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants” or “Elbialy”) alleging 17 causes of action for breach of
contract among other claims.  
                                               
II.           
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff Monem and the Elbialy
Cross-Defendants request imposition of sanctions against Cross-Complainants,
Ansari and RHDM, as well as their counsel, for expenses incurred on March 1, 2024,
to move ex parte to compel Cross-Complainants’ deposition, and expenses
incurred to oppose Cross-Complainants’ unsuccessful ex parte motion to reopen
discovery on March 21, 2024, and continue trial.
       Cross-Complainants abused the discovery
process. Cross-Complainants’ counsel, Nicole M. Soma, claimed to be engaged in
trial at the time the Ansari deposition was scheduled for March 1, 2024.  Specifically, Ms. Soma claimed she was engaged
in trial in another matter in Case No. 21STCV46952, Sayed v. The Evil
Geniuses. Plaintiff and Elbialy argue that while the deposition went
forward on March 7, 2024, Ms. Soma, and a non-attorney from her firm, coached Ansari,
and obstructed Cross-Defendants’ counsel’s questioning. Cross-Complainants subsequently
moved ex parte to continue trial and reopen discovery, also citing the Sayed
matter which the Court denied. 
       In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue
that there is no basis for imposing sanctions for expenses incurred in support
of the ex parte application or to oppose the second ex parte application.  All references to the March 7 deposition of Ansari
should be disregarded as irrelevant. Instead, the Court should impose sanctions
against Cross-Defendants.
       In reply, Cross-Defendants argue that
Cross-Complainants’ opposition is untimely filed and should be disregarded. Cross-Complainants
did not show substantial justification for their conduct. Ms. Soma cannot show
that she did not recommend the misconduct during Ansari’s deposition. The Court
should impose monetary sanctions against Cross-Defendants and their counsel. 
 
                                             
III.  LEGAL STANDARDS
       Monetary sanctions for legal expenses
incurred may be imposed against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 subd. (a).) Conduct justifying
sanctions include employing a discovery method in a manner that causes
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense; failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery;
making an unmeritorious objection without substantial justification or opposing
a motion to compel discovery without substantial justification. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
              On
March 1, 2024, the Court granted Monem and Elibialy’s motion for an order to
permit the taking of Ansari’s deposition after the discovery cut-off, due to
Cross-Complainants’ unilateral cancelations of the previously scheduled deposition
purportedly because of counsel’s (Ms. Soma’s) engagement in trial on another
matter. Ms. Soma filed an opposition and did not appear at the hearing. The
court granted Monem and Elbialy’s motion. (M.O. 3/1/24.) The Court found that Ms.
Soma’ declaration, submitted on the morning of the ex parte application, was completely
unpersuasive and did not provide a rationale justification for failing to
attend the deposition.  In short, the
Court finds that Cross-Complainants’s unilateral cancellation of Ansari’s
deposition was unwarranted, without merit and created an undue burden on
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendants.  
       On February 9, 2024, this Court denied
Cross-Complainants’ February 9, 2024, ex parte request to continue the trial.  Although the minute order from February 9,
2024, states that “… [t]he Court finds that the Defendant requests is
late and not emergent” (M.O. 2/9/24.), the Court distinctly
remembers admonishing counsel that any request to continue the trial should
have been made by noticed motion. (Andrew Goodman decl., Ex. H.)
       On March 20, 2024, Cross-Complainants
filed two ex parte applications which sought to continue the trial, reopen
discovery, and compel the deposition of Monem.  The hearing was held on March 21, 2024. Ms.
Soma and Mr. Siddiqui appeared on behalf of Cross-Complainants. The Court
considered Ms. Soma’s justification (involvement in another matter) to be
“suspect.” (Andrew Goodman decl., Ex. I, 34:25 – 35:8.). 
       Accordingly, Monem and the Elbialy Cross-Defendants
are entitled to an award for fees and costs incurred to move to compel Ansari’s
deposition and to oppose Cross-Complainants’ ex parte application to reopen
discovery and continue trial. The Court finds that expenses incurred, for
preparing the motion to compel Ansari’s deposition and to oppose
Cross-Complainants’ motion to continue trial and reopen discovery totaling 12.4
hours (for the Eilbialy Cross-Defendants), is reasonable. The Court reduces Mr.
Goodman’s requested rate of $575 per hour to $450 per hour, resulting in
sanctions for the underlying motions of $5,580.00 (Goodman decl., ¶ 14.) In
connection with the present motion, the Court finds that 10 hours to prepare
the motion and reply and to appear at the hearing is reasonable, for a total
sanction award of $4,500.00. Costs incurred for filing fees and court reporter
fees totaling $979.11 were reasonably incurred. 
       The Court further finds that expenses incurred
for preparing the motion to compel Ansari’s deposition and to oppose
Cross-Complainants’ motion to continue trial and reopen discovery totaling 9.9
hours (for Monem) is reasonable.  The
Court reduces Mr. Geragos’s requested rate of $695 per hour to $550 per hour,
resulting in sanctions for the underlying motions of $5,445.00. In connection
with the present motion, the Court finds that 7.2 hours to prepare the motion
and reply and appear at the hearing is reasonable, for a total sanction award
of $3,960.00. Costs incurred for filing fees and court reporter fees totaling $2034.64
were reasonably incurred. 
 
                                                      
IV. 
CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Monem,
and Elbialy Cross-Defendants’ joint motion for imposition of monetary sanctions
is GRANTED. Cross-Complainants, Ansari and RHDM Oil, and their counsel,
Siddiqui Law, APC, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay moving party and
their counsel fees and costs as previously articulated within 10 days. 