 Case Number:  23LBCV00859    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Roseana Lucero filed this action against Defendant, The
Kroger Company for damages arising out of a slip and fall on a cherry in
Defendant’s store.
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Deposition
During the course of discovery,
Plaintiff discovered Defendant’s former employee, Shaun Richmond, had seen the
cherry before the fall and did not pick it up. 
Plaintiff therefore propounded a deposition subpoena for personal
appearance on Richmond.  Richmond failed
to appear, and Plaintiff moves to compel his appearance.
 
Plaintiff served the moving papers
on Defendant and also on Richmond by mail and email.  CRC 3.1346 provides, “A written notice and
all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition
question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a
nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the
nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an
address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.”
 
There is no evidence submitted with
the moving papers to establish Richmond agreed to service by means other than
personal service; indeed, it does not appear Richmond has communicated with
Plaintiff’s attorney in any way.  The
motion is therefore denied without prejudice due to improper service of the
moving papers.  
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   