 Case Number:  22STCV07659    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Relevant
Procedural History
Plaintiffs, Aligda Cortez, Andres
Cortes, Berenice Bahena, Denmark Associates, Inc., Kimberle Marie, Inc., Luis
Zarate, Marisol Brooks, MK Motors, Inc., Ruben Sandoval, Tom Tech Enterprises,
Inc., Vale Motors, Inc., and Vidana Express, LLC filed motions for protective
orders on 4/03/24.  Plaintiffs set the
motions for hearings on various dates between 8/15/24 and 8/22/24.  Plaintiffs filed four motions, each directed
at discovery propounded by Defendants, Prudencio Rivera and JT Truck Equipment
& Sales, Inc.  The motions concern
FROGs, SROGs, RPDs, and RFAs.  
 
On 4/24/24, the Court heard and
granted Defendants’ motion to advance the hearing date on the motions.  The Court rescheduled all four motions for
hearing on 5/07/24.  The Court ordered
Defendants to file opposition to the motions forthwith, and ordered Plaintiffs
to file any reply papers by 5/01/24.  The
Court ordered Defendants to give notice of the ruling.  On 4/26/24, Defendants filed notice of the
ruling, including a copy of the Court’s minute order as an exhibit; the notice
of ruling included proof of service showing Defendants gave notice by email and
regular mail on 4/26/24.  
 
On 5/02/24, Plaintiffs filed their
omnibus reply.  The reply is technically
one day late.  Plaintiffs, however,
explain that the opposition was not served as a separate document, but instead
as part of the ex parte application to advance the hearing date.  Additionally, as noted above, Defendants did
not give notice of the ruling the same day it was issued, as is customary, but
instead two days later.  The Court has
therefore read and considered the reply document.
 
2.     Parties’
Positions
Plaintiffs seek a protective order;
specifically, they seek an order that they need not respond to Defendant’s
propounded discovery, contending the sheer volume of discovery renders it
oppressive and burdensome.  They note
that, with respect to SROGs and RFAs, the propounded discovery exceeds the
statutory limit, and they contend the accompanying declaration of necessity is
not sufficient to overcome the statutory limit. 
They seek imposition of monetary sanctions.
 
Defendants, in opposition to the
motion, contend the discovery is appropriate in light of the fact that
Plaintiffs’ complaint includes 46 causes of action.  They note that the discovery propounded on
each of the twelve moving plaintiffs was nearly identical, which will greatly
reduce the burden required to respond to the discovery.  They contend Plaintiffs, by failing to
meaningfully address the substance of the discovery or what efforts would be
necessary to respond to the discovery, necessarily failed to meet their burden
to show burden, expense, or intrusiveness. 
Defendants also argue Plaintiffs failed to properly meet and confer
prior to filing the motion.  Defendants
seek imposition of monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs.  
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, contend they
exhausted all attempts to meet and confer prior to filing their motions.  They contend the sheer volume of the
discovery propounded, coupled with its timing, render it oppressive and
burdensome.  They contend the motions
should be granted and sanctions should be imposed on Defendants.  
 
3.     Law
Governing Protective Orders re: Discovery
The Court, in ruling on these
motions, must first note the difference in the burden of proof among the
motions.  FROGs and RPDs do not have any
statutory presumptive limit.  SROGs and
RFAs, however, have a presumptive limit of 35. 

 
With respect to SROGs and RFAs,
when the rule of 35 is exceeded, the following is the law re: protective
orders:
If, despite the propounding party's
“declaration of necessity,” the responding party deems the number of
interrogatories excessive, the responding party may seek a protective order
under CCP §2030.090. Such order may be granted on the ground “[t]hat, contrary
to the representations made [in the declaration of necessity] … the number of
specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted.”  CCP §2030.090(b)(2).  The motion for protective order effectively
controverts the propounding party's “declaration of necessity” and places the
burden on the propounding party to justify more than 35 questions: “If the
responding party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of
specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall
have the burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories.”  CCP §2030.040(b).
 
With respect to FROGs and RPDs,
which have no presumptive limit, the law is different.  It is as follows:
The burden is on the party seeking
the protective order to show “good cause” for whatever order is sought.  Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.  The concept of “good
cause” requires a showing of specific facts demonstrating “undue burden,” etc.,
and justifying the relief sought.  See
Goodman v. Citizens Life & Cas. Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.2d 807, 819.
 
4.     Timing
of Discovery
The Court notes that Plaintiffs
make much of the timing of the discovery propounded.  Plaintiffs correctly note that Defendants
have been named parties in this action since its inception over two years ago.  Defendants waited until March of 2024 to
commence serving discovery, and they did so with a looming trial date in early
June of 2024.  
 
While waiting until the penultimate
moment to propound discovery is arguably not advisable, it is common practice,
and Defendants are entitled to information necessary to defend themselves, even
if they did not seek that information on an expedited timeline.  The Court understands that receiving a large
volume of discovery shortly prior to trial is frustrating, but will not impose
a blanket protective order permitting Plaintiffs to refuse to respond to any of
the discovery propounded merely due to the timing of the discovery.
 
5.     Twelve
Plaintiffs
The parties also discuss whether
the discovery is more or less onerous in light of the fact that basically the
same discovery was propounded on each of the twelve plaintiffs.  Defendants essentially argue the discovery
will be easier to respond to because it is the same.  Plaintiffs argue the responses must be
tailored to each of the responding plaintiffs, and will therefore be
different.  The reality lies somewhere
in-between.  Clearly, it will be much
easier for Plaintiffs to respond to substantially similar discovery than it
would be to respond to completely disparate discovery propounded on each of
them.  They must, however, still
individually respond to and verify each of the discovery requests propounded.  Ultimately, this is a peril anytime a group
of plaintiffs decides to sue as a block, and the Court will not issue a blanket
protective order merely because each of the twelve plaintiffs needs to prepare
individual discovery responses.  
 
6.     FROGs
and RPDs
The Court will first consider
whether Plaintiffs met their moving burden to show they are entitled to a
protective order re: FROGs and RPDs.  As
noted above, Plaintiffs have the burden of proof on this issue.  
 
The Court has reviewed the moving
papers on each motion and finds they fail to meet the moving burden.  The moving papers merely detail what
discovery was served and when it was served, and then conclude that it is oppressive
and burdensome.  Neither the Declaration
of Counsel in support of the motion nor the points and authorities ever discuss
what effort would be required to respond to the FROGs or the RPDs, which
analysis is necessary in order to conclude that the discovery is
unreasonable.  
 
That said, the Court briefly
reviewed the FROGs in an attempt to determine whether they are reasonable, and
notes that it appears some of the FROGs were improperly propounded.  By way of example, Exhibit 1 to the FROGs
motion is the FROGs propounded on Aligda Cortez, who is an individual.  Defendants checked all of the series 3 FROGs,
which are intended only for business entities – these FROGs seek information
such as whether the responding party is a corporation, a partnership, an LLC,
etc.  Cortez is clearly an
individual.  
 
The Court also briefly reviewed the
RPDs.  The RPDs appear to be proper and
the Court did not see anything objectionable about them at first glance.  Absent any meaningful discussion of the
actual RPDs propounded by Plaintiffs, the Court is inclined to require
Plaintiffs to respond.
 
The motion for a protective order
as to FROGs and RPDs is granted in part. 
The parties are ordered to meet and confer to limit the FROGs to only
those that are actually relevant to the parties upon whom they were
propounded.  
 
7.     SROGs
and RFAs
As noted above, the burden of proof
with respect to SROGs and RFAs is on Defendants.  Defendants, in their opposition papers, argue
the burden of proof is on Plaintiffs. 
Defendants failed to meaningfully justify their propounded discovery in
excess of the statutory limit.  They
therefore failed to meet their burden in this regard.  
 
Defendants must make a choice.  They can either accept an order that
Plaintiffs need only respond to the first 35 SROGs and RFAs propounded on them,
or they can draft new SROGs and RFAs and honor the limit of 35.  
 
8.     Sanctions
Both parties seek imposition of
sanctions.  The Court finds the need for
the hearing on these motions could have been avoided if both parties had more
meaningfully participated in the meet and confer process.  Plaintiffs essentially insisted on a
protective order permitting them to respond to nothing at all.  Defendants, on the other hand, did not
meaningfully respond to Plaintiffs’ correct assertion that some of the
discovery propounded was not relevant and/or exceeded the statutory limit
without adequate justification.  
 
Both because the parties did not
meet and confer in good faith, and also because the motions are granted in part
and denied in part, the Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions.
 
9.     Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ request for an order
that they need not answer any of the discovery propounded is denied.  Plaintiffs must respond to all propounded
RPDs.  The parties must meet and confer
to limit the FROGs to interrogatories directly relevant to the party upon whom
they have been propounded.  Defendants
must limit their SROGs and RFAs to 35, either by permitting Plaintiffs to
respond to the first 35 SROGs and RFAs already propounded, or by re-drafting
their discovery to comply with the limit. 

 
The Court notes that time is of the
essence, as trial is currently scheduled for 6/03/24.  The Court asks Counsel to be prepared to meet
and confer by the close of business on the date of this hearing, and to have the
discovery limited per the above order by the close of business on Wednesday,
5/08/24.  Plaintiffs must serve responses
no later than Friday, 5/24/24.  If
Plaintiffs intend to assert objections, the parties must meet and confer
immediately (before Plaintiffs serve responses) in an attempt to resolve any
objections prior to trial and without the need for additional court
intervention.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   