 Case Number:  22LBCV00808    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Ginger Andre Dolle filed
this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach and Ali Assef for damages
arising out of a series of sexual assaults perpetrated by Officer Assef on
Plaintiff when she was a minor.  Plaintiff’s
operative complaint is her First Amended Complaint, which she filed on
12/28/22.  It includes causes of action
for childhood sexual abuse, sexual battery, violation of 42 USC §1983,
violation of Civil Code §52.1, and violation of Civil Code §51.7.
 

Motion for Leave to
     Amend

a.     Prior
Hearing on Motion for Summary Adjudication
            On 3/19/24, the Court heard the
City’s motion for summary adjudication.  The
City sought summary adjudication of two issues. 
First, it asked the Court to adjudicate whether it was vicariously
liable for a sexual assault committed by Assef when he was off duty.  Second, it asked the Court to adjudicate
whether any direct liability claims against it had been sufficiently pled and,
if so, whether the City had direct liability for Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.
 
            The Court
denied the motion for summary adjudication of the first issue.  The Court took the motion for summary
adjudication of the second issue off calendar, finding no vicarious liability
claims were pled in the operative First Amended Complaint and therefore there
was no issue to adjudicate.  
 
b.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
i.             
Request for Relief
On 4/10/24, Plaintiff filed this
motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint.  The motion seeks leave to add claims against
the City on a direct liability theory (a Monell claim).  
 
ii.            
Opposition
The City opposes the motion.  It argues any direct liability claim is
barred by the statute of limitations, and does not relate back to the vicarious
liability claim already pled.  It
contends Plaintiff delayed in seeking relief, and the delay has resulted in
prejudice to the City.  It contends the
proposed amended complaint fails to state a cause of action.  It contends the motion lacks the requisite
declaration.  Finally, it seeks
imposition of conditions in the event the Court is otherwise inclined to grant
the motion. 
 
iii.           
Reply
Plaintiff contends she has not
delayed in bringing this motion, and any delay did not cause prejudice; she
contends any minor prejudice can be alleviated by a continuance of the trial
date, to which she is amenable.  She
contends the proposed amendment relates back to the filing of the original
complaint, such that there is no time bar. 

iv.           
Relation Back
The threshold issue is whether the
proposed amended complaint relates back to the original complaint, such that
the statute of limitations does not present a full defense to the proposed
claim.  Defendant relies on Newton v.
County of Napa (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1564-1565 to support its position
that the proposed Monell claim does not relate back to the original
complaint.  
 
In Newton, the plaintiff family
filed a complaint for NIED and battery against Napa County and four county
entities, including the sheriff’s department, probation department, CPS, and
human services delivery system.  The case
arose out of a complaint of child abuse and the conduct of the various
entities, through their employees, in investigating the child abuse
complaint.  After the statute of
limitations for a Monell claim ran, the plaintiffs moved for leave to amend
their complaint to add such a claim.  The
trial court granted the motion, but the Court of Appeals reversed.  It held:
We may best compare the original
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress with the section
1983 action. The two pleadings allege closely related, though distinct,
injuries— emotional distress and interference with the private realm of family
life. But the alleged causes of the respective injuries—negligent conduct by
four public officials and adoption of a county-wide policy interfering with the
integrity of family life—are not merely different but well removed in time,
place, and factual context. Although the question is close, we conclude that
the cause of action under §1983 is based on a different general set of facts
from the cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress and
therefore is barred by the one-year statute of limitations of Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.
 
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to
cite to or attempt to distinguish Newton. 
Indeed, Plaintiff seems to argue out of both sides of her mouth in her
opposition.  First, she argues that her
proposed SAC relates back to her original complaint because her original
complaint referenced City conduct that ultimately forms the basis of the Monell
claim (see reply, page 6, lines 13-24). 
Then, immediately thereafter, she argues her Monell claim is timely
because she just learned of facts supporting the claim during discovery (reply,
page 6, line 25 through page 7, line 7). 
She cannot simultaneously argue that her original complaint is
sufficient to state a Monell claim and also that she just learned of facts to
support her proposed claim.  
 
The Court finds that Newton is
directly on point, and specifically holds that a Monell claim does not relate
back to a tort claim arising out of the same facts and circumstances.  The motion for leave to amend is therefore
denied.
 
v.            
Additional Issues
The Court declines to rule on the
remaining issues because doing so is not necessary in light of the above
analysis re: relation back.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   