  Case Number:  20LBCV00504    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Tokio Marine America Insurance Company filed this action
against Defendant, Prestig, Inc. for carrier liability under the Carmack
Amendment.  Plaintiff filed its original
complaint on 11/19/20 and its operative First Amended Complaint on
1/19/21.  
 
Plaintiff alleges it insured Panasonic Corporation.  Defendant received a shipment of 1024 cartons
of lithium ion batteries from Panasonic in Carson and was charged with taking
the shipment to Kansas City.  However,
the rig carrying the batteries was involved in a single vehicle accident,
resulting in the vehicle over-turning and damaging the batteries.  Plaintiff alleges it suffered loss in the
amount of $620,199.27, as it had to pay its insured for the damage to its
goods.
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Answers to Questions at Deposition of PMQ
a.    
Discovery Reference
On 9/15/23, the Court issued an
order requiring the parties to submit discovery disputes to a discovery
referee.  The Court’s 9/15/23 minute
order stated, in pertinent part, “Scope of discovery refer is not to be limited
to motions filed in this Court before August 17, 2023.  Parties stipulate that discovery referee may
sit in depositions.”  
 
b.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendant’s PMQ to answer questions at deposition.  Plaintiff conducted the deposition on
2/28/24, and Defendant’s PMQ, Yordan Nachev, refused to answer numerous
questions on the basis of a privilege objection.  Plaintiff contends the privilege objections
are not well-taken, and Defendant’s PMQ should be compelled to answer the
questions.
 
Defendant opposes the motion.  It argues, first and foremost, that the
parties’ discovery disputes are subject to a discovery reference, and therefore
Plaintiff must submit the dispute the discovery referee for resolution.  Second, it argues the discovery cut-off has
passed, and Plaintiff cannot have this motion heard without moving to have
discovery re-opened, which Plaintiff did not do.  Defendant indicates it is standing on the
above procedural objections to the motion and will substantively oppose the motion
if and only if the Court dissolves the discovery reference and agrees to
re-open the discovery cut-off.
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends
Defendant is refusing to cooperate with the referee, is refusing to pay the
referee, is refusing to accept the referee’s ability to make rulings on
objections, and refused to permit the referee to be present at the subject
deposition.  Plaintiff contends the
motion is proper because it stems from the Court’s prior order compelling the
deposition, and therefore no order re-opening discovery is necessary.  
c.    
Analysis
The Court wishes to hear from the
parties, at the hearing, concerning the dispute over the discovery
referee.  The referee should have been
present at the deposition, should have made any necessary rulings at the time
of the deposition, and should have been the one to hear this dispute.  It appears, however, that Defendant is making
a concerted effort to thwart the reference, then complaining that the dispute
has not been submitted to the referee.  
 
The Court finds the motion is
timely.  Defendant’s position in this
regard is nonsensical.  Defendant
contends the discovery cut-off ran at some point in 2023, but Defendant concedes
the subject deposition went forward in February of 2024.  Is it Defendant’s sincere position that, for
some reason, the deposition was properly noticed and conducted after the
discovery cut-off, but Defendant had carte blanche to refuse to answer any
questions at the deposition with impunity because Plaintiff’s time to seek recourse
for its tactics had already run?  If the
deposition was properly conducted in February of 2024, and this motion was
filed promptly upon receipt of the transcript, the Court will not deny the
motion based on the discovery cut-off.  
 
The Court will decide, at the time
of the hearing, whether this dispute needs to be submitted to the referee or
whether it should be heard by the Court. 
If it decides the Court will hear the motion, then it will briefly
continue the hearing to permit Defendant to substantively respond and support
its privilege objections.  
 
d.    
Note re: MSJ Hearing Date
Defendant scheduled a hearing on a
summary judgment motion for 8/06/24. 
Defendant filed its moving papers on 3/25/24.  Trial is currently scheduled for 7/08/24.  Plaintiff, in its reply papers, indicates it
wants to have the hearing on the summary judgment motion moved up, and it will
waive statutory notice, so long as the PMQ deposition can be completed prior to
the due date for the opposition papers. 
The Court will discuss a timeline for resolution of the PMQ deposition
issue and hearing on the summary judgment motion with the parties at the time
of the hearing.  
 
The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing.
 