 Case Number:  24SMCV05569    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unlawful detainer action.  Defendant demurred to the complaint, alleging
a defect in parties and uncertainty. 
Plaintiff opposes.  The court
advanced the hearing to today.  The
demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendant will
have 5 days to answer. 
 
Plaintiff is a landlord who claims that defendant has not
paid the rent.  Plaintiff claims to have
provided the requisite notices and sues to evict defendant.  Defendant acknowledges that for purposes of
the demurrer,\ the court must presume all of the facts alleged in the complaint
to be true other than those of which the court can take judicial notice or of
facts that are contradicted by the documents to which the complaint adverts.
 
A demurrer based on a defect of parties occurs where the
named plaintiff is not the real party in interest or a party authorized to
bring the case or where there is a third party who is indispensable must be
joined but is not joined.  Defendant’s
claim is that the lease and second amendment to the lease name the lessor as
“Jedamist, Inc.” and therefore unless Jedamist, Inc. is named as a party, the
suit cannot go forward.  The problem is
that the addendum clarifies that “The Parties agree that the Lessor is changed
from Jedamist, Inc. to the Jedamist Partnership.”  Given that, the court does not understand why
Jedamist, Inc., must be named as a plaintiff. 
Defendant might also be arguing that “Jedamist Partnership” is not the
plaintiff here, either.  Technically, the
caption of this case names that plaintiff as “Jedamist, a California General
Partnership.”  While it is not 100%
clear, the court will assume that plaintiff is not asserting that it is a
common law partnership—that is an informal amalgam of people with a common
enterprise—but rather is a jural entity formed under California law.  The court is willing to so infer because all
reasonable inferences must be made in favor of the party opposing the demurrer,
and the court believes that such an inference is reasonable.  While it is true that the addendum says
“Jedamist Partnership,” not “Jedamist, a California General Partnership,” the
court does not believe that is a distinction with a difference.  The court can well believe that there is an
intentional difference between a partnership and a corporation—they are
different at law—but that is not the case as between a Partnership and a
California General Partnership.  In
short, the court does not see a misjoinder. 
Nor is the complaint so uncertain as to be vulnerable to a
demurrer.  Demurrers on uncertainty are
disfavored.  (Butler v. Sequeira
(1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143.)  This
complaint is not so incomprehensible that the defendant cannot tell what
defendant is accused of doing.  Defendant
also contends that the complaint is flawed for failure to attach the entirety
of the lease documents.  The court
disagrees.  There is actually no such
requirement at law so long as the relevant parts are either quoted verbatim or
described as to their legal effect.  That
was done here.  If there was something
material in the lease that will change the outcome, it is not discussed in the
demurrer.  Of course, if it is there, the
defendant has not waived the issue; it can be addressed on summary judgment.
 