 Case Number:  22SMCV02858    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 

 
The underlying suit is a wrongful death and survival action
resulting from the death of Raheem Udo-Ukon. 
(The court will use first names because many of parties have the same
last name.  No disrespect is
intended.)  Ebong (senior) is Raheem’s
father but is not technically a plaintiff, apparently (at the time) not wanting
to bring a wrongful death action nor a survival action.  Under California law, there can be but one
wrongful death case.  All those who might
be able to bring such a claim must be joined in a single lawsuit.  If there is a party who does not want to
bring a wrongful death action, that party is joined as a nominal defendant,
meaning that no actual relief is sought against that person, but that person is
not seeking a recovery either.  Ebong was
named as a nominal defendant.  The
plaintiffs are Ebong (junior), Donnisha, and Marcus, who are Raheem’s
siblings.  Apparently Ebong (unless
otherwise stated, “Ebong” refers to Ebong senior) has had a change of heart and
wants to bring a wrongful death action and recover against the defense.  To that end, Ebong has filed a
cross-complaint.  Defendant demurs
claiming both misjoinder and also that Ebong’s action is barred by the statute
of limitations.  Ebong also seeks to
bring the survival action.  Because the
law as to these actions is different, the court addresses them separately. 
 
The court turns first to the harder question, which in the
court’s view is the wrongful death cause of action.  Defendant’s first argument is that Ebong
cannot file a cross complaint because Ebong is not really a defendant; he is
really a plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s don’t
file cross complaints; they file complaints. 
Ebong states that he is not technically a plaintiff, although
functionally he is one.  Therefore, the
only avenue he has available to him is to file a cross action.  The court is not overly enamored of this
argument.  Putting aside the statute of
limitations issue, the court would be hard-pressed to find that Ebong has
forever waived his right to sue for wrongful death.  So whether the right answer is for Ebong to
seek leave to reclassify himself as a plaintiff or file a cross complaint makes
little or no practical difference.  It is
an interesting question, but not really of great moment.  The law is well settled that Ebong is a
plaintiff for all practical purposes.  (Ruttenberg
v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801.) 
It might well be that as a nominal defendant only Ebong could get no
recovery, but that would only be something that could be determined when the
case is over.  This case is far from
that.  As a result, the court is not
persuaded that there is an insoluble misjoinder problem.  Were it necessary, the court would construe
this as a motion to reclassify Ebong as a party plaintiff, and on that basis,
would allow the cause to go forward.
 
The harder aspect is the statute of limitations.  Defendant contends that the statute of
limitations is two years, and Ebong does not really contest that.  Here, Raheem died on December 26, 2021.  That means that the statute ran out on
December 26, 2023.  The original
complaint was filed in December 2022, so it is timely, and Ebong was named as a
nominal defendant therein.  The problem
is that Ebong’s cross complaint was not filed until October 2024.  Therefore, if the cross complaint relates
back, then it is timely; but if it does not relate back, it is barred.  Because of the one action rule in wrongful
death cases, the logic here is a bit harder than usual.  True, Ebong was named as a nominal defendant
in a timely way, and if that were itself enough, there would be no bar.  But as a nominal defendant, Ebong was
entitled to no recovery; he was named only because there can be only one
wrongful death case.  The reason that is
odd is because each wrongful death claimant is asserting her or his own unique
claim.  Thus, the named plaintiffs are
suing the defendant for the loss they themselves suffered by Raheem’s
death.  Whether that is financial or
otherwise, it is the injury to them that is to be recovered.  The same is true of Ebong.  He seeks to sue for damages due to him
for his own personal injury caused by Raheem’s death.  Ebong cannot recover for the injury suffered
by the siblings, and they cannot recover for the injury suffered by Ebong.  Accordingly, the statute runs separately as
to each plaintiff.  (Andersen v.
Barton memorial Hospital, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 678.)  Normally, that would be no issue because if
one does not want to sue, one need not sue. 
Here it is complicated because Ebong was named as a nominal defendant
due to the unique nature of the wrongful death statute.  The matter was discussed in San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. v. Superior Court (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1545.  There, the decedent’s heirs filed a timely
wrongful death action.  On the day of
trial, they sought to add the decedent’s widow (who had not been named as a
nominal defendant) as a plaintiff.  The
trial court allowed the amendment on the ground that the claims related back to
the original filing date.  Defendant
sought writ review, asserting that the widow’s claim was time-barred.  The Court of Appeal, on the merits, agreed
that the relation back doctrine did not apply. 
(The Court of Appeal did not issue the writ, however, because the widow
also asserted that even if the relation back doctrine did not apply, there were
facts that would toll the statute such that the action would still be
timely.  Because the appellate court
reasoned that it was proper for the trial court to allow the amendment on that
basis, the order was not improper.)  The
appellate court reasoned that the widow’s action related to her and to her
alone.  Because of that, it would be
improper to conclude that her action should relate back to the date that the
other wrongful death claimants filed their complaint.  That would seem to end the matter (and do so in
favor of the defense) but for one factual distinction.  In SDG&E, the widow had never been
named at all.  Here, Ebong was timely
named as a nominal defendant.  Unlike the
defendant in SDG&E, the defense here has had notice of Ebong’s
existence and potential claim.  The
defense knew he was alive; the defense knew he was Raheem’s father.  That much is in the naming of him as a
nominal defendant.  In SDG&E,
however, there is no reason to believe that the defense even knew that the
widow existed.  There is a notice issue
that was present in that case that is not present in this one.  The same fact pattern was present in Washington
v. Nelson (1979) 100 Cal.App.3d 47, where a widow filed a wrongful death
action in 1974 and in 1977 sought to amend the complaint to add the decedent’s
child as a new plaintiff.  The relation
back doctrine did not apply, but the child was a completely new party to the
case.  (The same general pattern existed
in Andersen.)  As such, the court
agrees with the defense that the relation back doctrine does not apply in the
sense that Ebong’s time to sue is not related to when the siblings sued.  What the court does not know, because no one
briefed it, is whether by adding Ebong as a nominal defendant, that action
tolled the statute.  Remember that the
law is settled that a nominal defendant is really a plaintiff.  Therefore, on the arguments made, the
demurrer is OVERRULED.  However, because
the matter was not briefed, this order is without prejudice to a motion for
judgment on the pleadings that does address it (and to which Ebong may, of
course, file an opposition.)
 
The survival action is an easier issue.  A survival action is one that is brought to
compensate the decedent (or the decedent’s estate); in other words, the injury
is to Raheem, not Ebong or the siblings. 
Under California law, a survival action must be brought by an
appropriate person, usually the successor-in-interest, which in the absence of
some other rule, would be the next of kin. 
Here, Ebong argues that he is the successor-in-interest, not the
siblings.  For purposes of the demurrer,
the court will assume that Ebong is in fact the successor-in-interest
here.  If he is not, the better way to
test that would be on motion for summary judgment.  If, however, he is correct, then the law is
clear that he can substitute in for the wrongly-named successor.  Further, unlike the wrongful death case, the
relation back doctrine does apply. 
(Indeed, that issue was before the court in the SDG&E case,
and the court so held.)  Because the
survival action is not personal to Ebong, there is no statute of limitations question.  If he is in fact not the proper party, again,
that ought to do no mischief.  The
recovery (if any) will only be for the injury to Raheem, irrespective of which
person is deemed to be the successor. 
The demurrer as to the survival action is therefore OVERRULED.
 
Defendant has the time allowed by law to answer.  