  Case Number:  21SMCV01145    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  I The court has before it McCourt’s ex parte request to
restore the summary judgment motion to the calendar.  The request is GRANTED. 
 
The original summary judgment motion by McCourt was filed on
May 8, 2024.  (That is not the motion
that would be restored; it is the motion before that motion.)  It was set for hearing on August 8, 2024,
with a trial set for December 2, 2024. 
Shortly thereafter, perhaps in the teeth of a 128.5 sanctions motion,
Fuller’s prior counsel sought to withdraw and McCourt filed a motion for
sanctions under 128.5.  Plaintiff’s
counsel was relieved on June 25, 2024, although the request had been made on
May 28, 2024.  On July 26, 2024, the
court, on ex parte request by plaintiff, continued the MSJ hearing and
the sanctions hearing to August 29, 2024. 
Plaintiff’s new counsel, Corder, was present at the hearing and the
court stated that there would be no further continuances.  Notwithstanding the continuance, plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the motions. 
On August 22, 2024, plaintiff again sought, ex parte, to continue
the hearings.  On August 23, 2024, the
court continued the hearings again, but still no oppositions were filed.  The motions were finally heard on October 8,
2024—two months after the original hearing date.  At that hearing, plaintiff’s counsel appeared
and Fuller was present in court.  Counsel
apologized for not filing oppositions to the motions, but claimed that there
was a medical issue that had resulted in his inability to file the papers.  The court elected to rule on the motion
notwithstanding counsel’s statement, but stated that it would entertain an
appropriate 473 motion.  The court’s reasoning
was that the motion had been pending for five months and that the trial date
was coming soon.  It would have been
inappropriate to continue the hearing again—with the trial less than two months
away—thereby requiring all parties to prepare for trial in the teeth of a
strong MSJ motion.  Nor would it be fair
to continue the trial with the motion unheard. 
The court therefore granted the motion in large part, although it was
denied in some respects.  The court notes
that the motion was not granted because plaintiff had filed no opposition;
rather, the court considered the motion on its merits, but the lack of an
opposition meant that once McCourt had shifted the burden there was nothing
further to do.  Because the motion
essentially gutted Fuller’s case thereby drastically changing the trial’s
contours (and because the one part that survived seemed to be based on the
accidental omission of evidence), the court vacated the trial date.  The motion for sanctions was denied as to
prior counsel and continued as to plaintiff to be heard alongside the other
MSJ, filed by Execushield, which was set for hearing on October 24, 2024.    The court emphasized the need to file a
speedy 473 motion.  The Execushield
defendants had filed their motion for summary judgment on August 7, 2024.    
 
On October 24, 2024, the court granted the Execushield
motion.  And again, plaintiff had filed
no opposition.  Consistent with its
position on McCourt’s motion, the court stated that it would rule on the motion
before it, but that it would entertain a 473 motion, although the court
remarked that none had yet been filed even though over two weeks had
passed.  As for sanctions, the court
noted that the McCourt parties intended to file another MSJ motion and that in
light of the upcoming motion, but more importantly the 473 motion, the court
believed that the sanctions motion ought to be, and was, continued.  The court again emphasized to plaintiff’s
counsel the need to file a speedy 473 motion. 
The court noted, with Fuller again in the room (as he had been for the
prior hearings) that if counsel needed help getting the motion on file, he
should get that help or associate in co-counsel, but that the matter needed to
be resolved and the court was not staying the case.  On October 29, 2024, the McCourt defendants
filed their motion for Summary Judgment. 
This is the motion McCourt seeks to restore to the calendar.
 
On November 7, 2024, plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the
court’s prior orders on summary judgment pursuant to CCP 473.  The motion was timely opposed, but plaintiff
did not file the reply until the day of the hearing.  The 473 motion was heard on December 11,
2024, and Fuller was again personally in court. 
The court denied the motion, but indicated that it believed that a
sufficient showing had been made under the statute.  The court agreed with the defense that it did
not have to grant the motion in the sense that Corder’s papers, while admitting
fault, did not trigger the mandatory grant provision of the statute.  But the court agreed with plaintiff that the
showing was sufficient for the court to exercise its discretion to grant the
motion.  But for one thing.  The motion did not include a proposed
pleading.  Under 473, it is mandatory to
attach the proposed pleading to the motion and that absent such an attachment,
the motion “shall not” be granted.  That
is mandatory language.  The court also
expressed some concern that the 473 motion had been promised as early as
October 8, 2024—two months earlier.  The
papers in support of the 473 motion had indicated that the oppositions were in
fact completed or nearly so already, but that counsel had not been able to
finalize them completely before the prior summary judgment hearings.  By this time, though, the court expressed
concern over McCourt’s rights.  There had
been a December 2, 2024, trial date. 
That date was vacated because of the MSJ ruling, which plaintiff now
wanted to throw out.  The court still had
not set the new trial date because there still was no valid 473 motion on
file.  The original McCourt summary
judgment motion had, by that time, been filed 7 months earlier and it would be
close on a year before the motion was heard. 
For that reason, the court directed plaintiff to re-file the 473 motion,
this time with the opposition papers attached within 5 court days.  The court was clear; a summary of the
opposition would not do.  The court
wanted the actual opposition papers to be filed.  The court’s reasoning was that by doing so,
the court could re-set the MSJ in short order if the 473 motion was granted
because all that would remain was the reply and McCourt was motivated to move
quickly (as was Execushield).  The court
was very plain as to what needed to be filed and when it needed to be
filed.  The court stated, again with
Fuller in the room, that the papers had to be filed on time or the court would
be inclined to restore the McCourt defendants’ MSJ motion to the calendar and
the prior orders for McCourt and Execushield would stand.  The court emphasized (again) that if counsel
needed aid to get it done, he should get the aid needed or associate in
co-counsel.  The deadline was December
18, 2024.  The court was clear that if
plaintiff need not add new arguments to the 473 part of the brief; the court
would almost certainly grant the motion (assuming the attached opposing papers
were in good order).  The court suggested
to McCourt that any opposition could simply incorporate the prior opposition by
reference to save time but preserve arguments. 
The court was clear that it would almost certainly find cause to grant
the 473 motion if it was in proper form and would not look favorably on an
opposition based on that issue.  
 
It is now December 23, 2024. 
The 473 motion has not been re-filed.
 
The time has come to put this case to rest.  The problem is that, while the court has some
sympathy for Fuller and a lot of sympathy for Fuller’s counsel and his medical
issues, the defense also has rights. 
This case was filed about three and a half years ago.  The complaint (which current counsel did not
draft) lays out in excessive detail the relationship (or alleged relationship)
between Fuller and McCourt and the other players in this case.  McCourt has steadfastly denied the heart of
the complaint: that she agreed to a Marvin type of arrangement with Fuller.  The trial date, at which time McCourt could
have tried to vindicate herself and tell her side of the story, was vacated due
to Fuller’s counsel’s issues and the successful summary adjudication.  And the lawsuit and its prayer for half of
McCourt’s wealth (and more) still looms over her head.  McCourt has had to pay legal fees relating to
the on-again-off-again nature of the summary judgment and the trial.  She has rights, too.  And one of them is the right to get this case
to trial or resolution.  The court has
done its level best to accommodate plaintiff’s counsel.  It continued the MSJ hearing on McCourt’s
motion for 60 days to allow new counsel to get up to speed, take additional
discovery if needed, and draft the opposition papers.  Even after the motion was granted, and even
after issuing a number of very pointed warnings, the court gave plaintiff’s
counsel time and then more time to file the 473 motion.  But when the motion was filed, it had an
obvious but fatal flaw: the lack of any opposition papers.  And even then, the court gave plaintiff time
to attach those papers and re-file, albeit a short amount of time (which the
court found appropriate in light of the representations that the papers were
virtually done).
 
Although not the
dispositive point, the court also notes an aspect of the background of this
case.  Fuller testified, in detail, that
he remembered the precise conversation he had with McCourt in which the Marvin arrangement was made.  It was
allegedly emblazoned in his mind.  But it
turns out that McCourt claims she was across the country on that date, and she
can apparently prove it.  (There are
other problems with the claim as well, including the notion that the Marvin claim was made while both parties were still married to others and
that it was not a typical Marvin claim—which deals with earnings during the
union—but rather supposedly included a merger of all of their property extant
at the time or obtained in the future, including property that McCourt was
under a court order not to hypothecate.) 
The court simply must, at this time, exercise its discretion to GRANT
the ex parte application to restore the MSJ to the
calendar.  The court will discuss timing
with the parties.
 