  Case Number:  19TRCV01050    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MICHAEL
  DYBERG, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV01050




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LAURA
  GEHLEY, et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 28, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff and cross-defendant Michael Dyberg
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
in Limine
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The Motions in Limines Nos. 1-6 are GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On November 22, 2019, plaintiff
Michael Dyberg filed the complaint against defendants Laura Gehley and Mark
Gehley for (1) defamation and (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress.

On May 5, 2020,
defendant/cross-complainant Laura Gehley filed a cross-complaint against
plaintiff/cross-defendant for (1) sexual battery, (2) battery and assault, (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligent infliction of
emotional distress. 
This is an action for defamation
and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The Complaint alleges the
following. Plaintiff Michael Dyberg, his wife, and two children live in the
same neighborhood as defendants Laura Gehley and Mark Gehley. (Compl., ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff has been a Redondo Beach Police Officer for 25 years. (Ibid.) In July
2018, Defendant Laura Gehley (“Laura”) accused Plaintiff of raping her in May
2018. (Id., ¶ 6.) Laura filed a complaint with the Torrance Police
Department which proceeded to investigate and ultimately clear Plaintiff of any
wrongdoing. (Ibid.) Plaintiff denies all wrongdoing. (Id., ¶ 11-12.) 
In continuation, the Complaint
alleges that, apart and distinct from Laura’s police complaint, the Defendants
posted communications on their respective Facebook accounts from September 2018
to the present time accusing Plaintiff of raping Laura. (Compl., ¶ 8.) The
latter Facebook posts were shared with third parties. (Id., ¶ 14.) While
at first the Facebook posts did not explicitly name plaintiff, by January 11,
2019, defendant Mark Gehley had named and even posted plaintiff’s photograph in
effort to identify him as the culprit ambiguously referred to in the
defendants’ previous Facebook posts. (Id., ¶ 8(a)-8(k).) Furthermore,
defendants allegedly threatened plaintiff with death, violence, and expressed
their desire that he had died at a mass shooting to which plaintiff had been a
witness to. (Id., ¶ 19.) 
On March 25, 2024 Dyberg filed the
instant motions in limine (1-6). On May 17, 2024, Dyberg filed a notice of non-opposition
from the Gehleys. To date, no opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY 
“In
limine motions are designed to facilitate the management of a case,
generally by deciding difficult evidentiary issues in advance of trial. ‘The
usual purpose of motions in limine is to preclude the presentation of
evidence deemed inadmissible and prejudicial by the moving party. A typical
order in limine excludes the challenged evidence and directs counsel,
parties, and witnesses not to refer to the excluded matters during trial. ‘The
advantage of such motions is to avoid the obviously futile attempt to ‘unring
the bell’ in the event a motion to strike is granted in the proceedings before
the jury.’’ What in limine motions are not designed to do is to replace
the dispositive motions prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure.” Amtower
v. Photon Dynamics, Inc. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1582, 1593 (Citations
Omitted). 
“A motion
in limine may not be used for the purpose of seeking summary judgment or
summary adjudication of an issue or issues. These motions may only be made in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c and applicable court
rules.” Local Rule 3.57(b). 
DISCUSSION
Motion In Limine No. 1: Exclude Expert Testimony
Exclude: all
expert testimony 
Grounds: the
Gehleys failed to identify any experts by the deadline to disclose expert
witness information. 
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: Dyberg’s
counsel served a timely demand for the exchange of expert witness information
on May 25, 2022, in accordance with the CCP § 2034. The deadline for this
exchange was June 27, 2022. However, the Gehleys did not identify any expert
witnesses by this deadline. Consequently, Dyberg obtained an order that denied
the Gehleys the ability to designate any late expert witnesses. Furthermore,
the Gehleys have previously indicated they do not oppose an order to exclude
all expert testimony. 
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No expert testimony may be presented at trial by
Defendants. 
 
Motion In Limine No. 2: Exclude Evidence of
Settlement Offers
Exclude: settlement
offers 
Grounds: Evidence
Code § 1152 
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: Evidence
Code § states that evidence of a compromise or offer of compromise is
inadmissible to prove liability for loss or damage. Dyberg and the Gehleys
participated in various settlement discussions, including private mediation and
Mandatory Settlement Conferences (MSCs). During these sessions, Dyberg made
settlement offers on specific dates: July 29, 2020, and May 9, 2022. Dyberg
argues that introducing these settlement discussions and offers at trial would
violate the rules designed to protect the confidentiality of settlement
negotiations and would be unfairly prejudicial. Additionally, Dyberg points out
that the Gehleys are currently representing themselves, which underscores the
necessity of a clear court order to prevent inadvertent or intentional mention
of settlement-related evidence during the trial. 
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No evidence of settlement offers may be presented.

 
Motion in Limine No. 3: Exclude Evidence of
Claimed Physical or Mental Conditions Claimed to Be Caused by Dyberg
Exclude: all
evidence of physical or mental conditions claimed to be caused by Dyberg
Grounds:
Evidence Code § 720
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: There
is a lack of expert testimony, which is essential for establishing the medical
causation and validity of such claims. Specifically, Gehley alleges that she
suffered from cervical spine damage, damage to her brachial plexus, numbness in
her arm, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and other physical and mental
conditions due to Dyberg’s actions. However, the Gehleys have not designated
any expert witnesses or treating physicians to testify about these medical
issues. Without expert testimony, the evidence of Gehley’s claimed conditions
is speculative and lacks a proper foundation to be connected to any misconduct
by Dyberg. According to Evidence Code § 720 and relevant case law, medical
issues and their causation must be established through competent expert
testimony. The law distinguishes between mere possibility and reasonable
medical probability, with the latter being necessary to establish causation in
personal injury cases. Furthermore, the court has previously ruled that no
expert testimony will be allowed at trial due to the Gehleys’ failure to comply
with expert discovery deadlines. 
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No evidence of claimed physical or mental
conditions claimed to be caused by Dyberg may be presented at trial. 
 
Motion in Limine No. 4: Exclude Evidence of
Claimed Complaints by Third Parties Against Dyberg
Exclude:
evidence of complaints alleged against Dyberg by third parties
Grounds:
Evidence Code § 352
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: Such
evidence is irrelevant to the current libel case and would be unfairly
prejudicial. Specifically, any complaints lodged against Dyberg in his capacity
as an officer, which are unrelated to the subject matter of the lawsuit with
the Gehleys, should not be introduced at trial. 
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No evidence of claimed complaints by third parties
against Dyberg presented at trial. 
 
Motion in Limine No. 6: Exclude Evidence of
Financial Condition
Exclude: all
evidence of the Gehley’s financial condition
Grounds: Evidence
of a defendant’s wealth is normally inadmissible at trial. (See 
Packard
v. Moore (1937) 9 Cal.2d 571, 576 [“It is undoubtedly the
settled law in this 
state
that in a personal injury action evidence of the financial condition of the 
injured
party is inadmissible.”]. 
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: Gehleys
may attempt to sway the jury by mentioning their financial struggles,
specifically their claim of spending $400,000 on previous lawyers, to elicit
sympathy and potentially reduce the damages awarded. Dyberg argues that such
evidence is generally inadmissible in personal injury cases, as established by
precedent in Packard v. Moore. Allowing this information would
necessitate introducing rebuttal evidence about the Gehleys’ other sources of
income, which could further complicate and lengthen the trial. 
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No evidence of financial condition may be
presented at trial. 
 
[Stipulation] Motion in Limine No. 5: Exclude
Usage of the Term “Legal Terrorism” 
Exclude: use of
term “Legal Terrorism” in front of the jury
Reasoning: 
Dyberg: The
parties met and conferred and stipulated that they would not introduce or
mention any evidence to the jury as it pertains to the following:  
1. The allegation that Dyberg’s
lawyers have engaged in legal terrorism.
2. The allegation that Dyberg’s
lawyers have committed perjury.
3. The allegation that Dyberg’s
lawyers have engaged in malicious
prosecution.
4. Any other allegation of
misconduct by Dyberg’s lawyers.
Gehleys: No
opposition was filed.
Determination:
GRANT. No expert testimony may be presented at trial. 
 
ORDER
            The
Motions in Limines Nos. 1-6 are GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.