 Case Number:  22STCV03492    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EMILY PEREZ, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV03492
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING GRANTING
  MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 




 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          May
28, 2024
 
Moving Party:                         CST
Industries, Inc.
Responding Party:                  Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co.
Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement
            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On January
28, 2022, plaintiffs Emily Perez and Joe Perez initiated this action. In the
operative first amended complaint against defendants City of Los Angeles; CST
Industries, Inc.; CST Covers Industries, Inc., a dissolved California
corporation; and Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co., plaintiffs
allege three causes of action for: (1) dangerous condition of public property;
(2) strict products liability; and (3) negligence.
 
            The FAC
alleges that plaintiffs’ decedent and father Jose Perez was working on a
project for the City that involved upgrading underground sedimentation tanks at
the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant in Playa del Rey, including removal of
existing mechanical parts and units, as well as piping, valves, and pumps, and
replacement of parts. The tanks hold approximately a million gallons each and
are approximately 20-plus feet deep. (FAC, ¶ 13.)
The FAC further alleges that on March 8, 2021, while
decedent was manually lifting with a co-worker a tank cover on a
sedimentation tank, the tank cover’s hinged flap handle on the co-worker’s end
broke, causing the tank cover to drop into the tank. When the co-worker’s end
dropped, the hinged flap handle on decedent’s end trapped his hand. He was
unable to let go of the tank cover, and as a result, decedent was thrown
20-plus feet into the tank to his death. (Id., ¶ 13.)
Plaintiffs
also allege that the tank cover was defectively designed, in that, among other
things, the folding hinged flap handles presented the very danger that was a
cause of decedent’s death: When the other end of the tank cover dropped, the
folding hinged flap handle would fold and entrap a worker’s hand, causing the
worker to be unable to let go of the almost 13-foot long, 150-200 pound tank
cover. (Id., ¶ 48.)
Further, the FAC alleges that Defendant CST
Industries is successor to Conservatek Industries, Inc. Conservatek was
contracted by the City to manufacture, fabricate, design, sell, and otherwise
produce equipment including the tank cover lids and hinged flap handles
involved in this action. (Id., ¶ 3.)
The FAC also claims that Defendant Kiewit was
contracted by the City to, among other things, install the tank covers
containing the hinged flap handles. (Id., ¶ 7.)
            On April
21, 2022, CST Industries filed an amended cross-complaint against Kiewit
Construction, Inc., and Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. f/k/a Kiewit Pacific Co.
for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.
 
On March 20, 2024, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co. filed an amended cross-complaint against CST
Industries, Inc. for equitable indemnity, implied indemnity, comparative fault,
declaratory relief and express indemnity.
 
On May 13, 2024, the City filed a
cross-complaint against CST Industries for declaratory relief and express
indemnity.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP § 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant
part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A determination by the court that
the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor
from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for
equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (c).  Although a determination that a settlement was in good
faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the
claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement. 
Code Civ. Proc., § 877, subd. (a).
 
“The party
asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).
 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under § 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.” 
 
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,
Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499. “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Ibid.
 
“The party
asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§
877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the
settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to
be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.  Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Id.
at pp. 499-500.
 
In City
of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261,
the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith
settlement determination: 
 
This court
notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented
for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and
granted summarily by the trial court.  At the time of filing in many
cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each
motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a
complete factual response to all of the Tech-Bilt factors, literally
thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have
to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste
valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to say,
when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good
faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the
case is sufficient. 
 
If the good
faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a
workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack
of good faith on the contesting party.  Once there is a showing made by
the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good
faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in
good faith.  If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be
filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file responsive
counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the
nonsettling contesting party. 
 
Id., at
1260-1261 [citation omitted].
 
DISCUSSION
CST
Industries, Inc. moves for a determination that its settlement with plaintiffs
for $1.3 million is a good faith settlement. This agreement is conditioned upon
a determination by this court that the settlement is made in good faith
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6. (Zeman Decl., ¶ 17.) The settlement was accomplished by way of a
mediator’s proposal following private mediation with Michael Moorhead, Esq. at
Judicate West. (Id., ¶ 19.)
CST includes its attorney’s declaration, who attests
to the following:
On March 8, 2021, decedent Jose Antonio Perez was
working over an open sedimentation tank with a 20-plus foot drop and no fall
protection at the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant located at 12000 Vista Del
Mar, Playa Del Rey. (Zeman Decl., ¶ 3.) Decedent
was the laborer foreman for Murray Company Mechanical Contractors, the
mechanical contractor hired by the City of Los Angeles to refurbish the
sedimentation tanks. (Id., ¶
4.) Plaintiffs allege
that at the time of the incident, Decedent and his coworker Alex Reyes were
attempting to manually move the large aluminum tank cover by placing their
hands into the hinged handles and lifting. Plaintiffs further allege that as
they were lifting the tank cover, Decedent’s coworker dropped his end of the
panel, causing Decedent to fall 20-plus feet into the tank, which resulted in
his death. (Id., ¶ 5.)
Cal/OSHA
investigated the incident and concluded that Murray Company had two distinct
violations: 1) failure to establish, implement, and maintain an effective
Injury and Illness Prevention Program, resulting in this incident; and 2)
failure to ensure that employees attempting to reposition a cover over the
opening on top of an approximate 20-foot deep settling tank wore and used an
approved fall protection system, resulting in the incident. (Id., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs
assert that CST (established in 2017-2018) has responsibility as a successor to
CST Covers, the company into which Conservatek Industries, Inc. (“Conservatek”)
had combined years earlier. Plaintiffs allege that Conservatek was the designer
and supplier in 2007-2008 of an allegedly defective and/or corroded handle on a
sediment tank cover with which Decedent was working at the time of his fatal
fall. (Id., ¶ 11.)
Further,
Plaintiff Emily Perez has been gainfully employed for several years. Plaintiff
Joe Perez has also previously been gainfully employed and pays $500 in rent at
the family home, despite being reportedly unemployed at the time of his
deposition. (Id., ¶ 15.)
            CST argues that plaintiffs’
liability claims as against CST are extraordinarily weak given that CST did not
design, manufacture, or sell the tank covers. CST argues it cannot be held responsible for
Conservatek and/or CST Covers’ alleged acts and omissions. Through a non-
collusive bankruptcy administered by the Bankruptcy Court in 2017, CST was
merely the purchaser of certain assets of Conservatek/CST Covers. 
CST further argues that plaintiffs’ damages were
caused by decedent’s own negligence for failing to use fall restraint systems,
especially considering that decedent had been a union laborer for Murray
Company for approximately 20 years when the incident occurred and had been a foreman
for Murray Company for over 10 years. (Zeman Decl. at ¶ 12.)  Lastly, CST contends that Murray Company
shares a significant percentage of comparative fault for failing to provide
adequate training and instruction to decedent, failing to ensure its employees
were utilizing fall protection equipment, and failing to supervise the manner
and means of the work to ensure it was being performed in a safe manner. Although
Murray is not named in this lawsuit, CST argues Plaintiffs’ damages would be
offset by Murray’s comparative negligence.
CST also provides adequate argument based on evidence
that show plaintiffs’ total recovery would be reduced in other ways. Kiewit
settled with Plaintiffs for $2.5 million, and the City settled for $1
million.  Moreover, CST argues that
Plaintiffs in this case are Decedent’s adult children. As children age into
adulthood, they rely on their parents less and less, and typically break away
and form their own family units. Moreover, plaintiff Emily is gainfully
employed, and plaintiff Joe helps in paying rent. Further, CST provides
evidence to show that damages for pre-death pain and suffering would not be
available, as Deputy Medical Examiner Pedro Ortiz-Colom, M.D. testified that
decedent became unconscious and died immediately. (Zeman Decl., ¶ 16.) 
The Court
finds CST has submitted a sufficient declaration setting forth the grounds for
this motion and a brief background of the case, which is sufficient to meet its
initial burden.  (City
of Grand View Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1260-1261.) Kiewit
contests the motion for a good faith settlement determination, and as a result,
“ha[s] the burden of proof on that issue.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (d).
 
Kiewit’s argument is that CST has
failed to present substantial evidence to show its settlement was a good faith
settlement. However, Kiewit is mistaken about who bears the burden. The party
asserting a lack of good faith bears the burden, not the party seeking
determination of good faith settlement. It is Kiewit who failed to provide any
evidence demonstrating plaintiffs’ total recovery and/or that the proposed
settlement does not accurately reflect CST’s proportionate share of fault. Kiewit
attempts to show plaintiffs’ total damages in arguing that plaintiffs served Offers
to Compromise under CCP § 998 on CST for a total of $10 million. However, no
evidence is provided to support this assertion. Moreover, even if it were, Kiewit
does not cite to any authority for the proposition that a settlement demand
reflects a plaintiff’s total recovery. There may be strategic reasons for
making a settlement demand.
Thus, Kiewit has not shown that CST’s settlement
agreement with plaintiffs for $1.3 million is so far out of the ballpark in
relation to its proportionate share of plaintiffs’ known damages at the time of
settlement. 
Further, Kiewit has settled with plaintiffs for $2.5
million and the City has settled with plaintiffs for $1 million, which would
reduce plaintiffs’ total recovery. Moreover, CST’s arguments that plaintiffs’
recovery would be offset by decedent’s own negligence in failing to wear fall
protection equipment and the negligence of his employer in failing to provide
adequate training and instruction, failing to ensure its employees were
utilizing fall protection equipment, and failing to supervise the manner and
means of the work to ensure it was being performed in a safe manner, have merit.

The court notes that settlements have been upheld
as being in good faith in cases with a $25,000 settlement in a $5 million case,
a $30,000 settlement in a $1 million case, a $65,000 settlement in a $7 million
case, and a $50,000 settlement in a $1.425 million case. See Cahill v. San
Diego Gas & Elec. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 968 [citing Bay
Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1012; Wysong &
Miles Co. v. Western Industrial Movers (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 278; Wilshire
Ins. Co. v. Tuff Boy Holding, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 627].
Kiewit further argues CST failed to
provide evidence of its financial condition and insurance limits. However,
recent authority provides no such evidence is required.  Cahill v. San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 968 (“As SDGE
notes, in support of their section 877.6 motion, Owners did not present any
evidence of their financial condition or liability insurance policy limits.
However, that omission did not preclude the trial court from finding the April
2009 settlement was made in good faith. Tech–Bilt does not require
settling defendants to present such evidence.”  (citation
omitted)).)  Additionally, the settlement amount is reasonable “without
‘discounting’ that amount based on any purported financial insolvency or
insurance limitations.”  Ibid.
 
The Court finds Kiewit failed to
meet its burden to establish the settlement was not made in good faith. Thus,
CST’s motion is granted.
Nevertheless, the Court notes that granting this
motion does not affect Kiewit’s claim for express indemnity against CST. Case law is clear in its
determination that CCP § 877.6 does not extend to claims of
contractual indemnity or contribution. “We hold that an indemnity claim against
a codefendant based on express contract survives a good faith section 877.6
settlement. The Legislature, by specifying equitable comparative indemnity,
evidenced in its intention to exclude contractual indemnity. The language of
section 877.6 is clear, and we are not free to depart from it.” C.L. Peck
Contractors v. Sup. Ct. (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 828, 834.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.
The
settlement between plaintiffs and defendant CST Industries, Inc. is a good
faith settlement pursuant to CCP section 877.6.  All claims against CST for
equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault, are barred pursuant to CCP
section 877.6(c). 
 
            Moving party is ordered
to give notice.