  Case Number:  23STCV06920    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  01 Moving Party:             Defendants
Leo’s Motel, Arvinda R. Patel, and Ramesh Patel 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Cesar Flores 
Ruling:                        Demurrer
overruled in its entirety.  
 
This is a proposed class action by plaintiff Cesar Flores (Plaintiff)
against defendants Leo’s Motel, Arvinda R. Patel (individually and as trustee of
the Ramesh N. Patel and Arvinda R. Patel Revocable Living Trust dated July 14,
2017 [the Trust]), and Ramesh N. Patel (individually and as trustee of the
Trust) (collectively, Defendants). 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants own and operate a residential hotel in
which they engage in a “28-day shuffle,” wherein tenants were required to move
out temporarily before 30 days of occupancy to prevent the tenants from
obtaining certain protections and tenancy rights.  Plaintiff brings causes of action for violation
of Civil Code §§ 1940.1 and 52.1, for negligence, and under the Unfair
Competition Law (UCL), Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.  Defendants demur to each cause of action and
to the class allegations.  
 
Legal
Standards

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 589; Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) ¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿
A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d
902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Ibid.)¿ The only issue involved
in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected
with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
 
“On demurrer the allegations of the complaint are assumed to
be true. A demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure for determining the
truth of disputed facts.”  (Ramsden v.
Western Union (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 873, 879.)  “Less particularity is required when it appears
that defendant has superior knowledge of the facts, so long as the pleading
gives notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.”  (Okun v. Superior Court (1981) 29
Cal.3d 442, 458.)  “If the complaint states
a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title under which the factual
basis for relief is stated, that aspect of the complaint is good against a
demurrer.”  (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)  “[A] plaintiff is required only to set forth
the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.”  (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation District (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245; see also Doheny
Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.)  
 
A court may address class allegations at the pleadings
stage:
 
Where there is a “reasonable
possibility” that the plaintiff in a class action can establish a community of
interest among class members, “the preferred course is to defer decision on the
propriety of the class action until an evidentiary hearing has been held on the
appropriateness of class litigation.” [Citation.]  However, where the invalidity of the class
allegations is revealed on the face of the complaint, and/or by matters subject
to judicial notice, the class issue may be properly disposed of by demurrer or
motion to strike.
(Canon U.S.A., Inc. v. Superior
Court (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1, 5 (Canon).)  
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of
certain class certification rulings by other Superior Court judges, including
one of the Los Angeles Superior Court.  “Any
matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue.”  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825, citing People ex rel. Lockyer v.
Shamrock Foods Co. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 415, 422 fn. 2.)  The decisions of other courts of equal
jurisdiction on similar issues do not bind this Court, which must rule on the
demurrer on its own merits under applicable law.  The request for judicial notice is therefore denied.
 
 
Discussion
 
The Court will address Plaintiff’s causes of action first,
and then address the class allegations.
 
1.      Violation
of Civ. Code § 1940.1
 
Civil Code § 1940.1 provides, in pertinent part:
 
(a) No person
may require an occupant of a residential hotel, as defined in Section 50519 of
the Health and Safety Code, to move, or to check out and reregister, before the
expiration of 30 days occupancy if a purpose is to have that occupant maintain
transient occupancy status pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 1940. Evidence that an occupant was required to check out and
reregister shall create a rebuttable presumption, which shall affect solely the
burden of producing evidence, of the purpose referred to in this subdivision.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that the property known as Leo’s
Motel, located at 1879 Lomita Boulevard in Lomita, California 90717 (the Hotel)
is a residential hotel[1]
within the meaning of the statute. 
(Complaint, ¶ 27.)  Plaintiff goes
on to allege as follows:
 
29. During the
Class period, Plaintiff and other Class members used, rented, and otherwise
occupied units at the Hotel. As with other Class members, Plaintiff used or
occupied his unit for sleeping purposes and used or occupied, or intended to
use or occupy, his unit as his primary residence, which Defendants knew.
 
30. During the
Class period, Defendants’ uniform and consistent policy and practice at the Hotel
was to require tenants to move out of the premises, or to check out and
reregister, before 30 consecutive days of occupancy. Pursuant to their policy
and practice, Defendants permitted guests of the hotel to continue to reside at
the hotel for months or years at a time so long as they temporarily moved out
or checked out before their 30th consecutive day of occupancy. Indeed, during
the Class period, Plaintiff was subjected to and complied with Defendants’
requirement to move out of the Hotel, or to check out and re-register, before
his 30th consecutive day of occupancy. Similarly, during the Class period,
other Class members were subjected to and complied with Defendants’ requirement
to move out of the Hotel, or to check out and reregister, before 30 consecutive
days of occupancy.
 
 
31. Defendants’
purpose for requiring tenants to move, or check out and reregister, before 30
consecutive days of occupancy was to have guests maintain “transient occupancy
status” pursuant to paragraph 1 of subdivision (b) of California Civil Code
section 1940. Guests that maintain transient occupancy status—defined to mean
30 days or less of occupancy—are exempted from the consumer protections and
tenant rights that are afforded to any person who occupies a dwelling unit for
more than 30 days. (Cal. Civ. Code § 1940.) Hence, by prohibiting guests such
as Plaintiff and other Class members from occupying a unit at the Hotel for more
than 30 consecutive days, Defendants intended to deprive them of protections
and rights they would have been afforded had they not been unlawfully forced to
vacate the hotel. In particular, Defendants sought to avoid the traditional
landlord-tenant relationship with the guests of the Hotel and caused their
eviction without unlawful detainer proceedings.
(Complaint, ¶¶
29-31.)
 
Defendants contend that these allegations are insufficient and
uncertain in that they do not provide facts such as “how this requirement [to
vacate] was carried out” or the dates, times, and length of Plaintiff’s specific
stay.  Defendants cite no law requiring
these facts to be alleged when alleging a violation of Civ. Code § 1940.1.  Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored
because ambiguities can be clarified through discovery.  (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
811, 822 (Chen).)  The purpose of California’s
pleading standards is not to substitute for discovery, it is “to acquaint a defendant
with the nature, source and extent of [the plaintiff’s] cause of action.”  (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation District,
supra, 70 Cal.2d at 245; Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Truck Ins. Exchange, supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at 1099.)  Plaintiff is alleging that he was obligated
to check out and re-register before 30 days of occupancy to prevent him from
obtaining tenant rights.  That is the
charge Defendants must meet.  Defendants presumably
know what their conduct was with respect to Plaintiff (and do not contend otherwise).  Even if the complaint was uncertain, “[a]
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled when the facts as to which the
complaint is uncertain are presumptively within the defendant's knowledge.”  (Chen, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th
at 822.)  
 
Aside from being a case concerning uncertainty, Zumbrun
v. University of Southern California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1 lends no
support to Defendants’ argument.  There, the
plaintiff sought relief on novel theories, each requiring different facts to be
pled.  (Id. at 9.)  Here, there is nothing novel about Civ. Code
§ 1940.1, and all causes of action are derivative of the same factual
allegations: that the Defendants engaged Plaintiff in the so-called “28-day
shuffle” to foreclose him from tenant rights he might otherwise have obtained.  The demurrer will be overruled as to this cause
of action.
 
2.      Violation
of Civ. Code § 52.1
 
The Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Civ. Code § 52.1, provides,
in pertinent part:
 
(b) If a
person or persons, whether or not acting under color of law, interferes by
threat, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat, intimidation,
or coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or individuals of
rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the
rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this state, the Attorney General,
or any district attorney or city attorney may bring a civil action for
injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief in the name of the people of
the State of California, in order to protect the peaceable exercise or
enjoyment of the right or rights secured. An action brought by the Attorney
General, any district attorney, or any city attorney may also seek a civil
penalty of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). If this civil penalty is
requested, it shall be assessed individually against each person who is determined
to have violated this section and the penalty shall be awarded to each
individual whose rights under this section are determined to have been
violated.
 
(c) Any
individual whose exercise or enjoyment of rights secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of
this state, has been interfered with, or attempted to be interfered with, as
described in subdivision (b), may institute and prosecute in their own name and
on their own behalf a civil action for damages, including, but not limited to,
damages under Section 52, injunctive relief, and other appropriate equitable
relief to protect the peaceable exercise or enjoyment of the right or rights
secured, including appropriate equitable and declaratory relief to eliminate a
pattern or practice of conduct as described in subdivision (b).
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
34. Plaintiff
refers to all of the foregoing paragraphs and incorporates herein by this
reference those
paragraphs as though fully set forth in this cause of action.
 
35. During the
Class period, Defendants, through their agents and representatives, interfered
with, or attempted to interfere with, Plaintiff’s and other Class members’
exercise or enjoyment of rights secured under Division 3, Part 4, Title 5,
Chapter 2 of the Civil Code by threats, intimidation, or coercion. The threats,
intimidation, and coercion included physically removing or threatening to
physically remove guests who did not depart when demanded, physically removing
or threatening to physical remove personal property of guests, locking out
guests, and blocking or attempting to block guests from returning to their
units.
 
36. On various
occasions during the Class period, Plaintiff, as well as other Class members,
experienced one or more prohibited form of threat, intimidation, or coercion by
Defendants.
 
Defendants again contend these allegations are uncertain and
fail to allege any tortious conduct by Defendants. As paragraph 34 incorporates
all previous allegations, this cause of action states that Defendants engaged
Plaintiff in the “28-day shuffle” by obligating him to check out and check back
in, as a tactic to deprive him of tenant rights.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 27-31.)  Although the Complaint is somewhat uncertain
with respect to the precise rights Plaintiff claims Defendants deprived him of
through threat, intimidation, or coercion, that is a question Defendants may
put to Plaintiff in discovery.  (See Chen,
supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at 822.) 
For this same reason, it is unnecessary for Plaintiff to “explain how,
when and who threatened to physically remove him, or actually physically
removed him.”  Defendants have presumptive
knowledge of their own conduct and may ask Plaintiff in discovery what he characterizes
as a threat, coercion, or intimidation. 
(See Ibid.)  Defendants’ cited
authority simply restates general principles of pleading specificity and does
not conflict with Chen.  (See Bernstein
v. Piller (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 441; Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007)
42 Cal.4th 531; Knapp v. Knapp (1940) 15 Cal.2d 237; Cypress
Semiconductor Corp. v. Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
243.)  The demurrer will be overruled as
to this cause of action.
 
3.      Negligence
 
“To succeed in a negligence action, the plaintiff must show
that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendant
breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the
plaintiff's damages or injuries.”  (Thomas
v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)  
 
“Negligence per
se” is an evidentiary doctrine codified at Evidence Code section 669. Under
subdivision (a) of this section, the doctrine creates a presumption of
negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant violated a
statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the violation
proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the death or
injury resulted from an occurrence the nature of which the statute, ordinance,
or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death
or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of persons for
whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.
(Quiroz v.
Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1285.)
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
38. Plaintiff
refers to all of the foregoing paragraphs and incorporates herein by this
reference those
paragraphs as though fully set forth in this cause of action.
 
39. As owners,
operators, managers, landlords, and/or lessors of residential hotels,
Defendants owed
a duty to Plaintiff and other Class members to exercise due care in complying with
all building, fire, health, and safety codes, ordinances, regulations, and
other laws governing the maintenance and operation of the Hotel, including
California Civil Code sections 1940.1 and 52.1; permitting Plaintiff and other
Class members quiet enjoyment of the premises; and not wrongfully interfering
with, or attempting to interfere with, Plaintiff’s and other Class members’ lawful
use of or interest in their dwelling units at the Hotel.
 
40. Defendants
were negligent. They breached their duty to Plaintiff and other Class
members by their
negligent, careless, and/or reckless acts and omissions to act alleged herein.
More specifically, they breached their duty through the following acts and
omissions to act, among others: Defendants violated California Civil Code
sections 1940.1 and 52.1 and, in particular, implemented an unlawful policy and
practice at the Hotel requiring Plaintiff and other Class members to move out
of the premises, or to check out and reregister, before 30 consecutive days of
occupancy for the purpose of having the occupants maintain transient occupancy
status.
 
41. Plaintiff’s
and the other Class members’ injury from Defendants’ violation of California
Civil Code sections 1940.1 and 52.1 resulted from the kind of occurrence the
foregoing statutes were designed to prevent. Plaintiff and the other Class
members were among the class of persons the foregoing statutes were intended to
protect.
 
42. As a result
of Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff and other Class members have suffered
economic damages and non-economic damages according to proof at trial.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 38-42.)  
 
Defendants again contend that these allegations are
uncertain and ambiguous.  As set forth
above, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants subjected him to the “28-day shuffle,”
which is prohibited by Civ. Code § 1940.1. 
Plaintiff’s negligence theory is one of negligence per se, where
Defendants’ violation of Civ. Code § 1940.1 furnishes the duty and breach of
duty.  Plaintiff’s allegations that he
suffered injury from the kind of occurrence the statute was intended to prevent,
while conclusory, are sufficient at the pleadings stage, and may be probed through
discovery.  The Court will overrule the
demurrer to this cause of action.
 
4.      Unfair
Competition Law (UCL)
 
The Unfair Competition Law (UCL), Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200 et seq., prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any act
prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7
of the Business and Professions Code.”  (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200.)  “Its coverage
is sweeping, embracing anything that can properly be called a business practice
and that at the same time is forbidden by law. [Citations.] It governs
anti-competitive business practices as well as injuries to consumers and has as
a major purpose the preservation of fair business competition. [Citations.]  By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, section 17200 ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.”  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th
163, 180, internal quotation marks omitted.) 
The law is disjunctive, in that a practice may be prohibited as “unfair”
or “deceptive” even if the practice is lawful, and vice versa.  (Ibid.)  
As with the negligence per se cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants violated the UCL by violating Civ. Code § 1940.1:
 
43. Plaintiff
refers to all of the foregoing paragraphs and incorporates herein by this
reference those
paragraphs as though fully set forth in this cause of action.
44. During the
Class period, Defendants have committed one or more acts of unfair
competition
within the meaning of the Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§
17200, et seq.) (the “UCL”). Defendants have committed the following
unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent acts of unfair competition, among others, in
violation of the UCL:
a. Violation of
California Civil Code section 1940.1;
b. Violation of
California Civil Code section 52.1; and
c. Negligence.
 
45. Defendants’
course of conduct, acts, and practices in violation of California law, as
listed in the
paragraph above and alleged in more detail herein, constitute a separate and
independent
violation of Business and Professions Code sections 17200, et seq.
 
46. As a result
of Defendants’ alleged misconduct, Plaintiff and other Class members have
suffered, and continue to suffer, an injury-in-fact, including expenses incurred
for alternative lodging and expenses for storage.
 
47. Defendants’
conduct described herein threatens an incipient violation of the
California Civil
Code or violates the policy or spirit of such laws or otherwise significantly
threatens or harms competition. Defendants’ conduct described herein violated
the established public policy of the State of California, which, among other
things, seeks to ensure honest and fair practices are applied by residential
hotels to guests and tenants.
 
48. The harm to
Plaintiff, other Class members, and the general public outweighs the
utility, if any,
served by Defendants’ policy and practice.
 
49. Defendants’
prohibited conduct is, and at all relevant times was, carried out as part of
their business
practice and constitutes an ongoing and continuing violation of the UCL.
Furthermore, as
a result of their practices, Defendants have unlawfully and unfairly reaped benefits
and profits at the expense of Plaintiff and members of the general public.
Unless restrained and enjoined by this Court, Defendants are likely to continue
to engage in the misconduct alleged in this Complaint and continue to harm
consumers and reap unjust enrichment.
 
50. Plaintiff
and Class members are entitled to restitution of any and all money that may
have been
acquired by means of any act or practice by Defendants that constitutes unfair
competition as
defined in the UCL; disgorgement of profits; an award of attorneys’ fees
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 and other applicable
laws; an award of costs; and interest.
 
51. Defendants’
unfair business practices entitle Plaintiff and other Class members to
seek preliminary
and permanent injunctive relief, including, without limitation, accounting and restoration
of the monies unlawfully obtained from Plaintiff and other Class members.
 
Plaintiff has alleged freestanding violations of Civ. Code
§§ 1940.1 and 52.1.  Because those are
sufficiently pled, this cause of action may survive demurrer.  Although Defendants gesture toward the
injury-in-fact requirement, Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendants obligated
him to incur expenses for alternative lodging and storage (Complaint, ¶ 46)
suffice to satisfy injury- in- fact.  The
Court will overrule the demurrer to this cause of action.
 
5.      Class
Allegations
 
Courts may resolve class allegations at the pleadings stage “where
the invalidity of the class allegations is revealed on the face of the
complaint, and/or by matters subject to judicial notice[.]” (Canon, supra, 68
Cal.App.4th at 5.)  However,
it is appropriate to do so only where “assuming the truth of the factual
allegations in the complaint, there is no reasonable possibility that the
requirements for class certification will be satisfied.”  (Bridgeford v. Pacific Health Corp. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1034, 1041-1042.) 

 
Defendants contend that based on Plaintiff’s allegations, the
proposed class is not ascertainable and lacks a community of interest.  The class proposed in the Complaint is:
 
All persons who
currently reside or formerly resided at the hotel located at 1879 Lomita Boulevard,
Lomita, California 90717 and were required to move out, or to check out, or check
out and reregister, before the expiration of 30 consecutive days of occupancy
at any time during the time period permitted under the applicable statute of
limitations.
(Complaint, ¶
14.)
 
a.     
Ascertainability
 
“Ascertainability is required in order to give notice to
putative class members as to whom the judgment in the action will be res
judicata.” (Hicks v. Kaufman & Broad
Home Corp. (2001) 89 Cal.App. 4th 908, 914 (Hicks).)
Ascertainability serves this “limited but important function . . .,” so long as
the class “is defined ‘in terms of objective characteristics and common
transactional facts’ that make ‘the ultimate identification of class members
possible when that identification becomes necessary.’” (Noel v. Thrifty
Payless (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955, 980 (Noel), quoting Hicks, supra,
89 Cal.App.4th at 915.)
 
“As a rule, a representative plaintiff in a class action
need not introduce evidence establishing how notice of the action will be
communicated to individual class members in order to show an ascertainable
class.” (Noel, supra, 7 Cal.5th at 984.) Indeed,
the due process concerns often associated with ascertainability do “not dictate
that certification of a putative plaintiff class invariably must depend on all
absent class members being sent (much less receiving) individual notice of the
action.” (Id. at 981.) Moreover, ascertainability does not contain a
“requirement that the identification of class members must occur ‘“without
unreasonable expense or time,”’” (id.
at 985, quoting Sotelo v. Medianews
Group, Inc. (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 639, 648), and “[a]rguments and evidence
relating to the provision of notice to the class conceivably could counsel
against class certification insofar as they may show that . . .” the class
action is unmanageable or not superior. (Id.
at 986.)
 
Defendant contends that the proposed class is not ascertainable
because its terms include not only persons who were allegedly forced to check
out as part of the “28-day shuffle” but also anyone who was required to check
out for any reason, essentially anyone who stayed at the Hotel during the class
period.  While this is true, this is not
a concern at the pleading stage.  “[P]laintiffs'
rights should not be forfeited because of counsel's choice of words in the
complaint or class certification motion. Drafting class descriptions is not an
easy task. Amendments are permitted so that class cases may proceed on their
merits.”  (Marler v. E.M. Johansing,
LLC (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1462.)  On class certification, “the Court is not
limited…to the class description contained in plaintiff’s complaint.”  (Cho v. Seagate Technology Holdings, Inc. (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 734, 748.)  It
makes little sense to reject the class allegations as overbroad now, where no
discovery has yet taken place, and the Court could itself redefine the class
were Plaintiff to later move to certify the class as presented in the complaint.
 
b.     
Community of Interest
 
The community of interest requirement entails showing that:
(1) predominant common questions of law or fact exist; (2) the class
representatives have claims or defenses typical of absent class members; and
(3) the class representatives and counsel can adequately represent the
interests of the class. (Brinker Rest.
Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1021 (Brinker).) 
 
Defendant contends additionally that the class lacks a
community of interest on its face, citing Schermer v. Tatum (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
912 (Schermer).  In Schermer, the
defendant landlords of various mobile home parks engaged in various acts to “trap”
class members in unconscionable lease agreements:
 
“(a) No
disclosure of standard form lease agreements to [p]laintiffs and [c]lass
members until after they financially commit to purchasing a mobilehome;
“(b) Presenting
standard form lease agreements to [p]laintiffs and [c]lass members on a ‘take
it or leave it’ basis with no opportunity to negotiate lease terms;
“(c) Prohibiting
[p]laintiffs and [c]lass members from taking a copy of the lease agreement home
to review prior to signing;
“(d) Requiring
execution of a standard lease agreement by [p]laintiffs and [c]lass members at
the time of presentment without the benefit of prior review of its terms;
“(e) No offer of
lease options to [p]laintiffs and [c]lass members as purported in the standard
form lease agreements [citation]. Any lease provision indicating that such
options were offered by [d]efendants and rejected by [p]laintiffs and [c]lass
members prior to execution of the lease agreements are false and illusory;
 “(f) Hiding material terms in a lengthy,
protracted standard form lease agreement, including, but not limited to,
substantial rent escalation provisions and language permitting unlawful charges
and pass-through of costs and expenses on a line-item basis, regardless of the
decrease in overall aggregate maintenance costs;
“(g) Failing to
provide all documents related to the lease until after expiration of the statutory
review period; and
“(h) Obtaining
[p]laintiffs and [c]lass members' signatures on Right of First Refusal Addenda,
Arbitration of Disputes Amendments, and Amendments to Lease/Rental Agreements
with Rent Adjustment under the threat of a substantial rent increase, which
results in execution of the same by [p]laintiffs and [c]lass members under
duress.”
            (Id. at
919.)
 
The Trial Court sustained the defendants’ demurrer to the
class allegations, and the Court of Appeal affirmed:
 
[W]e conclude as
a matter of law that individual issues predominate, inasmuch as: (i) the
alleged unconscionable policies and/or procedures at issue in this case
primarily arose out of one-on-one interactions between different defendants
(and/or their agents) and each plaintiff and putative class member in each of
the 18 mobile home parks; (ii) these one-on-one interactions allegedly involved
improper or unlawful conduct of defendants throughout the negotiation,
execution, and enforcement of each lease agreement; (iii) the
unconscionable policies and procedures alleged in the SAC involved at
least eight different leasing practices defendants purportedly
used to “trap” plaintiffs and the putative class members in connection with the
negotiation, execution, and enforcement of each lease agreement; and (iv)
several of the eight different leasing practices allegedly
used by defendants to “trap” plaintiffs and the putative class members involved
facts particular to the individual negotiation of the lease agreement,
including, by way of example only, (a) whether plaintiffs and the putative class
members were presented with the lease agreement on a “take it or leave it
basis,” (b) whether plaintiffs and the putative class members were provided all
documents related to the lease at the time of its execution, and (c) whether
plaintiffs and the putative class members signed the lease under duress.
(Id. at 925-926.)
 
In so holding, the Court of Appeal distinguished Prince
v. CLS Transportation, Inc., where a panel of the Second District, in dicta,
had observed that a demurrer to class allegations should not have been sustained
because the plaintiff alleged “institutional practices by [the defendant] that
affected all of the members of the potential class in the same manner, and it
appears from the complaint that all liability issues can be determined on a
class-wide basis.  At this stage, no more
is required.”  (Schermer, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at 926; Prince v. CLS Transportation, Inc. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1329 (Prince).)  
 
This case is quite distinct from Schermer, and more akin
to the situation described in the Prince dicta.  Plaintiff does not allege a panoply of
distinct, person-to-person acts such as withholding information until an
agreement was reached, or coercing class members into signing other
agreements.  (Cf. Schermer, supra, 245
Cal.App.4th at 919.)  Rather, Plaintiff
alleges an institutional practice of requiring class members to check out of
the Hotel, their primary residence, before 30 days have elapsed, a practice
which would affect all members of the potential class in the same manner (by
depriving them of their primary residence every 30 days).  The existence of such an institutional
practice is a question of common proof.  
 
Indeed, there is a rebuttable presumption under the law that
requiring a person to check out and re-register bespeaks the intent to have the
person maintain transient occupancy status. 
(See Civ. Code § 1940.1(a).)  The
Court is not convinced at this stage that, as a matter of law, any purportedly
individualized issues that might arise from the differing manners in which Defendants
enforced this alleged policy would predominate over common issues.
 
Defendants do not substantively support their contention
that “[t]he causes of action for negligence and violation of the Unfair
Competition Law would also create a division as to the common questions of law
and fact amongst class members.”  Their reference
to Smith v. Johnson (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 20 lacks a valid pin cite, and
this Court’s analysis of that individual car-accident claim suit sees nothing
which would lead to the conclusion that on Plaintiff’s class allegations fail
as a matter of law. That the UCL permits disgorgement of profits does not, on
its face, undermine class certification. 
Variations in the damages suffered by putative class members do not undermine
community of interest, either.  “As a
general rule if the defendant's liability can be determined by facts common to
all members of the class, a class will be certified even if the members must
individually prove their damages.”  (Brinker
Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1022,
quoting Hicks v. Kaufman & Broad Home Corp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
908, 916.)  
 
Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103
was a mass tort action for personal injury, involving disparate issues of liability,
causation, damages, comparative fault, informed consent, assumption of risk,
and statutes of limitations.  (Id. at
1123.)  This is not a personal injury
case, and aside from citing Jolly, Defendants make no effort to analogize
it to this one.  Brown v. Regents of
University of California (1984) 151 Cal.App. 3d 982 was also a mass tort
for medical malpractice against a hospital, involving four subclasses and
allegations of failure of informed consent, intentional misrepresentation,
battery, negligence, and wrongful death, among other claims, which presented a “quagmire
of tough factual questions which can only be resolved by individual proof.”  (Id. at 986-987.)  Held the Court of Appeal:
 
Whether a
particular class member relied on the representation, for example, will require
close scrutiny of what was said between a class member and his physician. A
class member's particular medical condition and method of treatment must be
examined in order to determine proximate cause of any claimed damage and the
actual extent of such damage. All of the foregoing involve questions of what is
medically appropriate for a particular patient under his particular
circumstances. Viewed in this context, the complaint raises numerous and
substantial individual questions of fact such that it is not reasonably
possible plaintiffs will be able to establish a sufficient community of
interest to warrant class action.
(Id. at 989.)
 
Brown’s allegations bear no resemblance to this case,
where Plaintiff does not allege class members were deceived or relied on any
misrepresentations.  There are not
seemingly any individual conditions among the class members which would be
relevant to causation (unlike the differing states of health between the various
Brown class members).  While it
may be that there are differences between the class members that would require individual
inquiries, that is far from a certainty at the pleadings stage.  Brown is therefore unhelpful.  Finally, Clausing v. San Francisco Unified
School District (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1224 was a case involving the alleged
abuse of students by various teachers and employees of the school
district.  (Id. at 1229-1230.)  Observed the Court:
 
In order to
recover, each individual claimant would have to prove: (1) the fact that he or
she was a victim of abuse; (2) the identity of the abuser; (3) the capacity in
which the alleged abuser acted; (4) the fact that the alleged perpetrator was
acting within the scope of his or her employment by the District; and (5) the
existence and extent of damages. In each individual instance, the District and
the individuals involved would be entitled to different affirmative defenses
and immunities.
 
No such similar issues present themselves here and
Defendants make little effort to argue to the contrary.  
 
For the foregoing reasons, the demurrer will be overruled as
to the class action allegations.
 
Conclusion
 
 The demurrer is
therefore overruled in its entirety.  Defendants
to answer the complaint within 30 days of this ruling.  Plaintiff to give notice.  


