 Case Number:  23TRCV02110    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GLEN
  HAMEL, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02110




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
VINCE
  VALDEZ,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 24,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Vince Valdez
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Glen Hamel and Cynthia Hamel
Motion to Strike
Portions of FAC
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to strike is DENIED.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer within
twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On June 29, 2023, plaintiffs Glen
Hamel and Cynthia Hamel filed a complaint against Vince Valdez for (1) breach
of contract – personal guarantee and (2) common counts – goods and services
rendered.
            On April 22, 2024, the court granted
plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend to file a FAC.
            On April 26, 2024, plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant requests that the Court
strike all requests for interest and principal derived from compounded interest
from the FAC at paras. 19, 22, and 27 and prayer for relief as to 1 (general
damages of $2,808,623.15) and 3 (interest at an agreed upon rate of 10% from
September 30, 2022 to date of entry of judgment). 
            The FAC alleges that on February 14, 2020, plaintiffs and Health Care
Building Investment, LLC dba Welbrook Investments, LLC entered into a written
loan agreement, entitled February 2020 Promissory Note.  Defendant Vince Valdez personally guaranteed
the loan.  FAC, ¶¶10, 12.  On May 10, 2020, plaintiffs and Welbrook
Investments entered into another loan agreement, entitled May 2020 Promissory
Note.  Defendant personally guaranteed
the loan.  Id., ¶¶11, 13.  Plaintiffs stopped receiving payments from
defendants under the Promissory Notes. 
Id., ¶15.   In September 2022,
plaintiffs obtained a default judgment in the State of Arizona in a civil
action in case no. CV2022-006299 against Welbrook Investments in the sum of
$2.24 million.  Id., ¶18.  Pursuant to the Arizona Judgment, plaintiffs
are entitled to recovery of $2.24 million, prejudgment interest of $562,147.95,
costs of $417.70, and attorney’s fees of $6,057.50, plus interest at the agreed
upon rate of 10% until the Arizona Judgment is paid in full.  Id., ¶19. 
By reason of the foregoing and of the failure and refusal of defendants
to perform pursuant to the Guaranty Agreements and the breach of the same,
plaintiffs have been damaged in the amount of no less than $2,808,623.15 ($2.24
million in principal, $562,147.95 in interest, $417.70 in costs, and $6057.50
in attorney’s fees), plus interest at the agreed upon rate of 10%.  Plaintiffs are also entitled to attorney’s
fees and costs incurred in connection with the enforcement of the Guaranty
Agreements.  Id., ¶22.
            Under
the second cause of action for common counts, plaintiffs allege that the
Guaranty Agreements set forth the reasonable value of the funds that were
provided to defendant.  The unpaid sum
due to plaintiffs under the Guaranty Agreements is $2,808,623.15, plus
prejudgment interest at the rate of 10% per year from September 30, 2022.  Plaintiffs are also entitled to attorney’s
fees under the Guaranty Agreements.  Id.,
¶27.
            Defendant
argues that plaintiffs are improperly seeking to recover interest as well as
principal, which is derived from compounded usurious interest, and that the Court
may strike requests for relief that are invalid as a matter of law.  Defendant contends that plaintiffs are not
entitled to interest because the loans made by plaintiffs and guaranteed by
defendant had an interest rate of 12%; thus, the loans and guaranties are
usurious as a matter of law.  Defendant
asserts that the remedy under California law is the complete voiding of the
interest obligation—the interest rate on a usurious loan is retroactively set
to zero.  Defendant contends that the
lender is not permitted to recover any interest and all payments to date are
attributed to principal regardless of whether the payments were initially
classified as interest or principal payments. 
Defendant asserts that plaintiffs have admitted in multiple forums and
pleadings that they intended to charge 12% interest.  
            Defendant
further argues that a lender cannot avoid the remedy for usury by purporting to
reduce the interest rate after the fact, including reliance on a “usuary
savings clause” that purports to reduce the interest rate on a loan below its
facial interest rate if it is deemed usurious. 
Such a clause is given effect only if the lender had a bona fide intent
not to exceed the maximum legal rate of interest.  Moreover, defendant contends, to the extent
leave to amend is granted, plaintiffs should only be allowed to seek principal,
less all sums paid to them to date.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that the loans are not usurious because the
lenders did not have the specific intent to enter into a usurious
transaction.  Plaintiffs cite to the
usury savings clause in the 2020 Promissory Notes, which plaintiffs argue,
although not conclusive by themselves, establish plaintiffs’ intent to not
charge defendants any interest that would violate California’s usury law.  Plaintiffs also contend that they have never
actually collected usurious interest or any payments at all under the 2020 Promissory
Notes.  Plaintiffs further argue that
defendant should be estopped from asserting a usury defense because it was
defendant and the original obligor on the subject loans who insisted on the 12%
rate “for the purpose of defeating an action for interest on the note.”
            In
reply, defendant reiterates his arguments that the 2020 Notes are “facially
usurious.”
            The Court rules as follows:  “The essential elements of usury are:  (1) The transaction must be a loan or
forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must exceed the statutory maximum; (3)
the loan and interest must be absolutely repayable by the borrower; and (4) the
lender must have a willful intent to enter into a usurious tarnation.”  Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 791, 798 (citation omitted).  “A
transaction is rebuttably presumed not to be usurious.”  Id. (citation omitted).  “The borrower bears the burden of proving the
essential elements of a usurious transaction.” 
Id. at 799 (citation omitted). 
One of the elements is “the lender must have a willful intent to enter
into a usurious transaction.”  Id.
at 798 (citation omitted).  “The element
of intent is narrow.”  Id.  “The existence of the requisite intent is
always a question of fact.”  Boerner
v. Colwell Co. (1978) 21 Cal. 3d 37, 44 (emphasis added).  As the Court had previously stated in its
ruling on the motion for leave to amend, defendant is not barred from asserting
an affirmative defense based on usury.  As
the existence of the requisite intent is a question of fact, the Court declines
to make a finding at the pleading stage as to usury and whether plaintiffs are
entitled to 10% interest or no interest.
The motion is thus DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is DENIED. 
            Defendant is ordered to file an
answer within twenty days.
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling. 