 Case Number:  23TRCV01856    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LONNIE
  LEE GIPSON, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01856




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TORRANCE
  CARE CENTER WEST, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 24, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Torrance Care Center
West, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for an Order Compelling Plaintiffs to Provide Responses to First Set of Form
and Special Interrogatories
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
 RULING
The motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and
Betty Gipson are ordered to respond without objections to defendant Torrance
Care Center West’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories,
Set One within twenty days.
The Court orders that plaintiffs
pay a monetary sanction to defendant in the amount of $490 within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
On June 13, 2023, Lonnie Lee Gipson
and Betty Gipson, ind. and as guardian ad litem of Lonnie Lee Gipson, filed a
complaint against Torrance Care Center West, Inc. for (1) statutory elder
abuse/neglect, (2) violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and Safety
Codes, (3) negligence, and (4) unfair business practices.
On March 18, 2024, the court
sustained defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, and fourth causes of
action with lave to amend.  To date,
plaintiffs have not filed a FAC.  The court
granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Torrance Care Center West, Inc. requests that the Court compel plaintiffs
Lonnie Lee Gipson and Betty Gipson to respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Special Interrogatories, Set One.
            Defendant asserts that on December
11, 2023, defendant served plaintiffs with written discovery.  Responses were due by January 15, 2024.  Subsequent thereto, defendant extended the
time for plaintiffs to provide responses on three separate occasions, with the
last extension granted on January 30, 2024, with a due date of April 15,
2024.  On May 14, 2024, defense counsel
attempted to contact Betty Gipson by phone and sent a meet and confer letter by
email and registered letter, offering to provide an extension to May 22,
2024.  After receiving no response,
defense counsel attempted to meet and confer and left a voice mail
message.  To date, defense counsel has
not received responses.
            There is no opposition. 
            The Court finds that defendant
properly served written discovery and plaintiffs failed to timely serve
responses, and thus have waived objections.
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
            Defendant
requests $682.50 in sanctions against plaintiffs.  The Court finds that $490 ($215/hr. x 2 hrs.,
filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against plaintiffs.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and
Betty Gipson are ordered to respond without objections to defendant Torrance
Care Center West’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories,
Set One within twenty days.
The Court orders that plaintiffs
pay a monetary sanction to defendant in the amount of $490 within 30 days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.