 Case Number:  24TRCV00134    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SUN
  D. LEE, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00134




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CHUN
  KIL CHONG, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
24, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Chung Kil Chong,
trustee of Chun Kil Chong Trust, Min Ju Bark, and Richard Chong
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Set Aside Default for Leave to Answer
 
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
The
defaults entered against defendants on March 29, 2024 are VACATED.
Defendants
are ordered to file responsive pleadings forthwith.
BACKGROUND
            On January 17, 2024, plaintiffs Sun
D. Lee and Kwan Lee (self-represented) filed a complaint against Chun Kil
Chong, Chun Kil Chong, trustee of Chong Kil Chong Trust, Min Ju Bark, Richard
Chong, and Jon Kim for (1) fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment, (2)
breach of oral contract, (3) constructive trust, (4) quasi contract, (5) quiet
and clear title, (6) financial elder abuse, and (7) IIED. 
            On February 6, 2024, John Kim
(self-represented) filed a general denial.
            On February 20, 2024, Chun Kil Chong
(self-represented) filed an answer. 
            On March 29, 2024, defaults were
entered against Chung Kil Chong, trustee of Chun Kil Chong Trust, Min Ju Bark,
and Richard Chong.  A dismissal was
entered as to John Kim.
            On June 13, 2024, Chun Kil Chong
filed a substitution of attorney.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §473(b) states, in relevant
part:  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .”
“[T]he policy of the law is to have
every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a
party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of
the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167
Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Under
CCP §473(b), defendants Chung Kil Chong, as trustee, and Min Ju Bark, and
Richard Chong request that the court set aside and vacate defaults entered
against them.  
            The
court notes that two motions were filed on defendants’ behalf, one on May 13,
2024 and one on May 28, 2024, which appear to be the same.
            Defendants
explain that after they learned about the lawsuit, they made an appointment
with Howard Lee of the International Pacific School of Law.  They found him through an advertisement
promoting his experience in commercial law and met with him the second week of
February 2024.  They asked his advice on
how they needed to respond.  He informed them
that they needed to file an answer, and he helped them prepare one.  Defendants assert that although they intended
that the answer be filed on behalf of Chun Kil Chong, individually and as
trustee, his wife (Min Ju Park), and his son (Richard Chong), it was deemed
filed on behalf of Chun Kil Chong, as an individual only, as he was the only
one to have signed it.  They assert that
on April 16, 2024, they appeared at a CMC and first learned that their defaults
had been entered.  Defendants then met
with an attorney and filed the motion to vacate.  See Chun Kil Chong, Min Ju Bark, and Richard
Chong declarations.  Defendants further argue
that there will be no prejudice to plaintiffs.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court finds that defendants have met their burden of showing that the defaults
were entered based on their mistake, inadvertence, and/or neglect.
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.
The
defaults entered against defendants on March 29, 2024 are VACATED.
Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading forthwith.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice.