 Case Number:  23VECV04809    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  T ANDIA V GODADDY 23VECV04809
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s Motion to
Dismiss or Stay is DENIED.  Defendant
GoDaddy.com, LLC’s Alternative Motion to Reclassify is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC
(Defendant) moved to dismiss or stay Plaintiffs Andia, Inc. (PAI), Nationwide
Telecom, Inc., a Colorado Corporation, (NTICO), Proud Holding Inc. (PHI), Proud
Holding LLC (PHL), Nationwide Telecom Inc., a California Corporation (NTICA),
Nikoo Inc. (Nikoo), and Omid S. Ahmadabadi (Ahmadabadi) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) verified First Amended Complaint (FAC).  Alternatively, Defendant moved to reclassify
the FAC as a small claims case or limited jurisdiction case.
Procedure 
Plaintiffs argued that the
alleged contracting, “Go Daddy Inc.,” (who is not a party to this action) was
not incorporated in 2005, either in Arizona or Delaware.  However, Plaintiffs did not attach the
exhibits to any declaration in support of the opposition to the instant
motion.  Instead, Plaintiffs attached the
exhibits to the opposition to the demurrer and then also failed to attest to
the authenticity of the documents from the Arizona Corporation Commission and
the Delaware Secretary of State.  The Court
did not consider Plaintiff’s attachment to their opposition to the demurrer in
ruling upon the instant motion due to the lack of any authenticating testimony
or even a request for judicial notice.  Counsel
should know better.  Plaintiffs’
arguments as to the existence, or lack thereof, of non-party Go Daddy Inc. is
unpersuasive.
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the action
should be dismissed/stayed due to the “forum selection clause” in one of three
Universal Terms of Service (UTOS) agreements attached to the FAC or attached as
Exhibit C to the declaration of Defendant’s Counsel, Nathan Dooley.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 410.30(a).) [For
purposes of this demurrer only, based on arguments of both sides arguing venue,
the court will treat this as a venue selection clause. [For change of venue, the
usual practice is to call such as clause a “venue selection clause” while reserving
the term “forum selection clause” for choice of law.]  Defendant asserted that the parties agreed to
have disputes heard in the Superior Court of Maricopa County, Arizona or the
United States District Court for the District of Arizona.  
Defendant cited to the two UTOS
agreements attached to the FAC to show the existence of an agreement and its
forum selection clause.  (FAC, Exhs. 1
and 3, par. 22(N).)  However, Defendant’s
reliance is misplaced.  Plaintiffs
submitted the two versions of the UTOS to dispute the contention that
Plaintiffs are obligated under the two UTOS due to the lack of any notice.  Plaintiffs alleged that they registered with
Defendant on November 11, 2005.  (FAC
par. 13.)  Plaintiffs alleged that the
subsequent UTOS dated December 14, 2023 was never provided to Plaintiffs
because a confirmation email from Defendant asserted that the UTOS could be
accessed through a web address “URL”. 
But the UTOS was missing.  (FAC
pars. 14-15, Exh. 1.)  Further,
Plaintiffs alleged that a UTOS dated May 18, 2023, which was submitted with
Defendant’s opposition to Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte Motion for Preliminary
Injunction and Order to Show Cause, was not available in the Legal Agreement
section of Defendant’s website.  (FAC
par. 16, Exh. 3.)  Defendant’s reliance
upon the attachments to the FAC to show entry/consent/notice of the two UTOS is
faulty because Plaintiffs’ verified allegations expressly dispute
entry/consent/notice of the two UTOS attached to the FAC.  
Defendant also submitted a copy
of the 2005 version of the UTOS agreement. 
(Dooley Decl., Exh. C.)  However,
Plaintiffs disputed the validity/authenticity of the attached 2005 UTOS.  Mr. Dooley failed to attest to any personal
knowledge of the 2005 UTOS and failed to sufficiently authenticate the attached
2005 UTOS. Again, counsel should know better. Without admissible evidence as to
the 2005 UTOS and the fact that Plaintiffs dispute the authenticity of the
attached 2005 UTOS, Defendant failed to meet its initial burden to show that
the document is what it purports to be, the 2005 UTOS.  
Defendant argued that Plaintiffs
admitted to being bound by the UTOS in the original Complaint.  (Compl. pars. 46-47.)  The Court recognizes that Plaintiffs alleged
that they “entered into a contract” and “fulfilled its obligations under the
UTOS”.  However, the Complaint did not
attach the version of the UTOS at issue. 
Further, the evidentiary defect identified above also applies to this
argument.  It is unclear if any of the
three versions of the UTOS is the document which Defendant asserts it to
be.  
Because there is a dispute that
the documents presented are the applicable UTOS, Defendant’s arguments are
unpersuasive.
The motion to dismiss or stay is
DENIED.
Alternatively, Defendant
requested to reclassify the action to either Limited Jurisdiction or Small
Claims Court.  (“Walker” Motion [Walker
v. Superior Court (1990) 53 Cal.3d 257, 269-270].)  Defendant relied upon the three UTOS’s
clauses that limited damages to $10,000.00. 
However, Defendant’s argument is again based upon terms of the three
versions of the UTOS reviewed above. 
Because there is insufficient showing that any of the three versions of
the UTOS’s are admissible or enforceable, 
the argument that damages are limited to $10,000.00 is unpersuasive.
The alternative motion to
reclassify the action to limited jurisdiction or small claims court is
DENIED.  
The court hopes that in future
pleadings, counsel will not attempt to authenticate documents, nor refer to
unauthenticated documents.

 

[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer to the first and second causes of
action are OVERRULED.  The demurrer to
the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave
to amend is only granted to cure the pleading defect in the third cause of
action and not to add new causes of action.
Defendant GoDaddy.com,
LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITH
20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to punitive damages and GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the relief requested under replevin.
Leave to amend is only
granted to cure the pleading defect in the third cause of action and for
punitive damage, and not to add new causes of action or parties.
Introduction 
Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Andia, Inc. (PAI), Nationwide Telecom, Inc.,
a Colorado Corporation, (NTICO), Proud Holding Inc. (PHI), Proud Holding LLC
(PHL), Nationwide Telecom Inc., a California Corporation (NTICA), Nikoo Inc.
(Nikoo), and Omid S. Ahmadabadi (Ahmadabadi) (collectively, Plaintiffs)
verified First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA)
for conversion, the second COA for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, the third COA for tortious interference with contract, and
the fourth COA for declaratory relief. 
Defendant also moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages
and relief associated with its omitted replevin claim in the Prayer, paragraph
1.  
Discussion 
As to the entire FAC, Defendant
argued a contractual defense.  Defendant
asserted that the Universal Terms of Service (UTOS) permitted/justified their
alleged wrongful conduct/action in locking, stealing and/or withholding
Plaintiff’s domain names.  Defendant
argued that Plaintiffs were in violation of the terms of the UTOS because
Plaintiffs failed to comply with sanctions regulations from the Office of
Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).  However,
the argument is not proper for a demurrer because it presumes facts not found
within the four corners of the pleading. 
Plaintiffs did not allege any facts to assert that Plaintiffs were in
violation of OFAC regulations.  The
contrary is alleged by Plaintiffs. 
Defendant attempted to link the argument to allegations found in FAC
par. 38, however, the argument misconstrued the factual allegations of the FAC
read as a whole.  Plaintiffs expressly
alleged that they were not in violation of any of Defendant’s guidelines or
policies and OFAC did not issue any forfeiture order against them and that
Defendant’s freezing of the domain name was unjustified and without cause.  (FAC pars. 37-44.)  For demurrer purposes, the factual
allegations in the pleading are deemed true and Defendant’s argument is based
upon an attempt to refute the factual allegations that the freezing of the
domain names was unjustified, which is improper for demurrer purposes.
Defendant’s argument that the
pleading lacks any allegations of wrongful conduct against them and/or that
they have a full contractual defense to the claims is unpersuasive.
As to the first COA for
conversion, Defendant argued that domain names are not property.  Defendant submitted an explanation of domain
names and the domain name system. 
However, nowhere in the federal cases cited by Defendant is their any
legal authority to support the contention that a domain name is not considered
intangible property.  Considering
Defendant’s legal authority and explanation of the system, domain names are
registered and “sold” for a “registration fee” by a number of competing
companies known as “registrars” to web site operators.  (American Girl, LLC v. Nameview, Inc. (E.D.
Wis. 2005) 381 F.Supp.2d 876, 879.) 
Further, Plaintiff provided legal authority to show that domain names
are considered intangible property. 
(Kremen v. Cohen (9th Cir. 2003) 337 F.3d 1024, 1030-1036
(Kremen).)  The Court is persuaded by the
Kremen opinion which provided that a domain name is an intangible personal
property.  Defendant’s initial argument
as to the domain name lacking property rights is unpersuasive.
Defendant then argued that there
are insufficient facts to show any wrongful conduct because the UTOS justified
Defendant’s actions.  However, the
argument is again lacking and unpersuasive, as reviewed above.
Defendant argued that the website
continued to operate without interruption and Defendant disputed Plaintiff’s
claim of damages.  However, the argument
is unpersuasive because it is grounded on facts outside the four corners of the
pleading.  Defendant’s attempt to support
the argument through Counsel’s declaration and exhibits attached to the reply
is not considered in that the demurrer would become an unpermitted “speaking
demurrer.”
The Court noted that Plaintiffs’
opposition attached several exhibits to support their disputes as to the UTOS
and disputes as to whether they violated Defendant’s policies or OFAC’s
regulations.  However, the exhibits
attached to Plaintiffs’ opposition were not considered in ruling upon the
demurrer (or the concurrent motion to strike). 
The exhibits were not properly submitted to the Court by way of a proper
request for judicial notice.  
The demurrer to the first COA for
conversion is OVERRULED.
As to the breach of good faith
and fair dealing COA, Defendant argued that Plaintiffs failed to allege that
the contract was written, oral, or implied in fact, and failed to attach the
contract.  However, the arguments are
inconsequential because the COA is not for breach of contract.  The implied breach of a good faith and fair
dealing is extra-contractual and is grounded upon implied  obligations not expressly made within the
contract.  Because the claim is
extra-contractual, there is no requirement to comply with the pleading
requirements for a breach of contract COA. 
Further, one of the pleading elements of the COA is that the parties
entered into a contract.  (CACI no. 325.)  Plaintiff alleged the existence of contract
between the parties.  (FAC par. 62.)  Further, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant
unilaterally and without cause or justification locked out Plaintiffs’ access
to their domain names.  (FAC par.
64.)  The allegation is sufficient to
plead Defendant’s conduct that prevented Plaintiffs from receiving the benefits
under the contract.  
Lastly, Defendant argued that the
terms of the UTOS permitted Defendant’s action. 
However, as reviewed above, the argument is grounded upon facts not
alleged in the FAC and a misreading of the allegations.  Plaintiffs expressly alleged that the lock
out was without cause and Plaintiffs did not violate Defendant’s policies or
OFAC’s regulations.  The argument is
unpersuasive as reviewed above.
The demurrer to the second COA
for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing is OVERRULED.  
As to the third COA for
Interference, Defendant argued that there are no facts alleged to plead
Defendant’s knowledge of Plaintiffs’ contracts with third parties.  Plaintiffs alleged that they had contracts
with “1 million users who used the platform through their domains.”  (FAC par. 68.)  The allegation is conclusory and lacks any
supportive facts as to Defendant’s knowledge. 
Plaintiffs, however, argued and added that the third party contracts at
issue were with advertisers and that Defendant had knowledge of the contracts
based upon Defendant’s status as the domain service registrar.  The argument is lacking in that no allegation
in the FAC references contracts with advertisers.  Further, 
the claim that Defendant’s knew of the contract because Defendant is the
registrar is again conclusory.  Factual
pleading is required to support the pleading element of knowledge.  On this pleading defect, there is grounds to
sustain the demurrer as to the third COA.
Defendant again argued that their
actions were justified under the terms of the UTOS and Plaintiffs did not plead
damages because there was no disruption of service.  As reviewed above, the arguments are not
persuasive and insufficient to be grounds to sustain the demurrer.
The demurrer to the third COA for
interference is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
As to the declaratory relief COA,
Defendant argued that Civil Code section 1670.5 is a defense and not an
affirmative cause of action.  (California
Grocers Assn. v. Bank of America (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 205, 217 (California
Grocers).)  The Court finds Defendant’s
citation to California Grocers persuasive. 
Plaintiffs’ opposition failed to argue against the contention but
skipped ahead to argue that both substantive and procedural unconscionability
elements are sufficiently alleged. 
However, Plaintiffs missed the point of the first argument in the
demurrer, that unconscionability is not grounds for an affirmative cause of
action.  For this pleading defect, there
is good cause to sustain the demurer.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendant also submitted
arguments referencing a separate Domain Name Registration Agreement
(DNRA).  Arguments as to a DNRA are not
considered because there is no reference to any DNRA within the four corners of
the FAC.  Any assertion that another
agreement, not alleged in the FAC, exists between the parties is improper
grounds for a demurrer because such claims are outside the four corners of the
FAC.
Defendant moved to strike the
request for punitive damages due to a failure to plead facts to support malice,
oppression, or fraud.  Plaintiffs’ claims
for punitive damages are grounded in the allegation that Defendant locked out
Plaintiffs from their domain name without notification or cause and the
allegation that the UTOS is unenforceable. 
However, the allegations are insufficient to plead malice or oppression
because there are insufficient facts to plead “cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights,” or “conduct which is carried on
by the defendant with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ. Code, sec. 3294(c)(1) and (2).) 
“Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.” 
(American Airlines v. Sheppard (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1051.)  Although the intentional tort claims alleged
by Plaintiffs are proper COAs to support punitive damages, there are
insufficient facts alleged to show how the torts rose to a level of a conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights to the domain name. 
The motion to strike punitive
damages is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant’s request to strike
Prayer, paragraph 1, regarding remedies for replevin are persuasive because
Plaintiffs withdrew their claims for replevin alleged in the original
Complaint.  Replevin is not alleged in the
FAC.  Plaintiffs did not oppose the
request.
The motion to strike the replevin
relief is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 

IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO
GIVE NOTICE.