 Case Number:  23VECV03417    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03417 LINGARD V SOBER
SOULS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Sober Souls, Inc., Audy Harman, and
Jonathan Chang’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in Part
and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action;
and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of action and
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth and fifth causes of action.
Defendant Sober Souls, Inc., Audy
Harman, and Jonathan Chang’s Motion to Strike is DENIED as to punitive and
exemplary damages under the sixth and seventh causes of action, and treble
damages under Code of Civil Procedure, sec. 1029.8(a) and MOOT as to statutory
damages and attorneys’ fees under the fourth and fifth causes of action.
Defendant Sober Souls, Inc., Audy
Harman, and Jonathan Chang’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the
existence of the documents but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute.
LEAVE TO AMEND is limited to
correcting the deficiencies as set forth in this order and not to add persons
or causes of action, nor to amend any other causes of action except as the Court
has authorized.
Introduction 
Defendant Sober Souls, Inc.
(Sober Souls), Audy Harman (Harman), and Jonathan Chang (Chang) (collectively,
Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs Patricia Lingard (Patricia [the Court refers
to Plaintiffs by their first name to avoid confusion and does not mean any
disrespect]), Carlton Lingard (Carlton), individually and as successors in
interest to Dakota Lingard (Dakota), and Estate of Dakota Lingard
(collectively, Plaintiffs).  The demurrer
placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for negligence, the second
COA for willful misconduct, third COA for breach of contract, the fourth COA
for dependent adult abuse, the fifth COA for financial abuse of a dependent
adult, the sixth COA for fraudulent misrepresentation, the seventh COA for
fraudulent concealment, and the eighth COA for violation of the Unfair
Competition law (UCL).  
Defendants moved to strike the
request for punitive and exemplary damages; statutory damages under Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.57; attorneys’ fees; and treble damages.
Discussion 
Defendants argued that the
allegations as to the licensing requirement (SAC par. 19) is a sham pleading
and made in contravention of the Court’s prior January 8, 2024 Order on the
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
The January 8, 2024 Order expressly ruled:  
“Therefore, per the allegations,
if Sober Souls is not a treatment facility, then it would not require to be
licensed. Even if it affirmatively represented that it was such a treatment
facility, if it was not, it was not required to be licensed. Plaintiffs'
opposition attaches evidence that defendant stated that it was not such a
treatment facility.”
(Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice (RJN), Exh. B.)  
The arguments presented regarding
Defendants’ licensure requirements or lack thereof must be reviewed in context
with the claims alleged in the SAC for demurrer purposes since a licensing
allegation, in and of itself, is not a COA that can be grounds for a
demurrer.  
The first COA for negligence
alleged two separate duties.  (SAC pars.
67 and 68.)  The first duty alleged
involves the duties imposed under the licensure requirements of sober living
facilities that provide Alcohol or Other Drug (AOD) abuse treatment services
(i.e., providing “24-hour non-medical, residential, alcoholism or drug abuse
recovery or treatment services.” Treatment services are to “promote treatment
and maintain recovery from alcohol or drug problems which includes one or more
of the following: detoxification, group sessions, individual sessions,
educational sessions, and/or alcoholism or drug abuse recovery or treatment
planning.)  (Health & Saf. Code.,
sec. 1250 and 9 Cal. Code. Regs. secs. 10505(a) and 10501(a)(4), (5), (11),
(19), and (21).)  (SAC pars. 19-26, 29,
33, 38, 47, and 67.)  For clarity, the
Court refers to such statutory facilities as, Licensed Treatment Facility
(LTF).  Within the above cited
allegations in the SAC, Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants “orally agreed to
provide” or “would provide, promised to provide and endeavored to provide” drug
abuse recovery or treatment services. 
However, the written contract produced by Plaintiffs at the prior
demurrer hearing (and submitted in Defendants’ RJN Exh. A) conflicts with
Plaintiffs’ allegation that Defendants orally agreed to,  promised to, or endeavored to provide drug
abuse recovery or treatment services. 
However, "'[w]hen judicial notice is taken of a document ... the
truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are disputable."
(Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 569 (quoting
StorMedia Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 449, 457 n. 9).  Further, judicial notice is improper to
resolve the very dispute over the fact that occasioned the request for judicial
notice. (Cruz v. County of Los Angeles (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134.)  Despite the Court’s January 8, 2024 ruling
that the facts alleged in an exhibit taking precedence over the allegations,
the Court now rules that judicial notice of the written contract is improper
since the request is seeking to resolve the dispute over the facts
alleged.  There is sufficient fact
pleading to show that the prior defect as to licensing was cured to support a
claim that a duty arises against Defendants, as an LTF.  The SAC sufficiently alleged facts to support
the element of duty owed by Defendants, as an LTF.  
As to Plaintiffs’ reliance upon
Health & Safety Code, sec. 1250, the Court does not find the statute
relevant to the arguments of licensure. 
There are no facts to allege that Dakota was “inpatient” but the allegations
expressly show that Dakota had the ability to leave the facility and in fact is
alleged to have exited the facility. 
Further, there are no facts to allege that Defendants provided 24-hour
care similar to the care provided in general acute care hospitals, acute
psychiatric hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, intermediate care
facilities, intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled habilitative,
and other  types of facilities listed in
Health and Safety Code, sec. 1250(a) – (n). 
Plaintiffs failed to allege facts that Defendants are a health facility
as defined under Health & Safety Code, sec. 1250 and/or that the statute
required Defendants to be licensed. 
The second duty alleged involves
the duties imposed upon facilities that do not require licensing by the
Department of Health Care Services (DHCS), which include facilities that are
cooperative living arrangements with a commitment or requirement to be free
from alcohol and other drugs, sometimes referred to as a sober living
environment, a sober living home, transitional housing, or alcohol and drug
free housing.  For clarity, the Court
refers to such facilities as Sober Living Homes (SLH).  (SAC par. 68.)  To the extent that Defendants are not found
to be an LTF, Plaintiffs alternatively alleged duties owed by Defendants, as an
SLH.  Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants
orally agreed to, represented, and/or endeavored to provide Dakota with a
drug-free or sober living environment by restricting Dakota’s entry/exit of the
facilities; verifying the persons associating with Dakota; searching Dakota for
drugs and confiscating any drugs; interviewing and testing for drug use; and
transporting to medical facilities if found positive for drug use.  (SAC pars. 34-37, 39-43, and 68.)  At minimum, the contract produced by
Plaintiffs at the January 8, 2024 hearing (and relied upon by Defendants by way
of the instant RJN Exh. A) would provide support for the alleged duties imposed
by an oral agreement, at least as an SLH, which “required” Defendants to
provide a drug-free living environment.  
Defendants disputed that any such
duty to protect, aid, or prevent Dakota’s overdose death even exists because
there is no duty to prevent harm or come to the aid of another or take
precautions.  (Nally v. Grace Community
Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278, 299; Hernandez v. KWPH Enterprises (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 170, 177, 180.)  However, as
reviewed above, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged facts to plead that Defendants
are an LTF.  Further based upon
Defendants’ oral agreement and/or promises to care for Dakota and Dakota’s
reliance upon the oral agreement and/or promises, Defendants would seem to
support an allegation of a special relationship with Decedent Dakota.  With the allegation of a special
relationship, a duty to protect or prevent Defendant Dakota’s overdose is
sufficiently alleged.  Defendants’
argument that no duty exists as a matter of law unpersuasive.
Further, Defendants argued that
there are insufficient facts pled to support the element of causation.  Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants failed to
abide by their own obligations to ensure Dakota did not possess drugs, test for
drug use, and transport Dakota to medical facilities if tested positive for
drug use.  Plaintiffs alleged that Dakota
exited Defendant’s SLH without Defendants’ verification of the persons Dakota
was meeting, obtained drugs, re-entered Defendants’ SLH without a search of his
person, and brought them back to Defendants’ SLH without being searched, used
the drugs and overdosed at Defendants’ SLH. 
(SAC pars. 52-61.)  These claims
are sufficient to allege the element of causation.  Defendants’ arguments as to the lack of facts
to support the element of causation is unpersuasive.  
Plaintiffs have sufficiently
amended the pleading to cure the pleading defect identified in the January 8,
2024 Order as to the duty element.  
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.
As to the second COA for willful
misconduct, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a negligence claim and at issue is
whether the allegations are sufficient to raise the claim to willful
misconduct.  Defendants argued that there
are insufficient facts to allege intent to harm.  Willful misconduct is “an act deliberately
done for the express purposes of injuring another, or intentionally performed
either with the knowledge that serious injury is a probable result or with a
positive, active, wanton, reckless and absolute disregard of its possibly
damaging consequences...” 
(Johns-Manville Sales Corp. v. Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board
(1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 923, 932.) 
Plaintiffs argued that intent is pled because Plaintiffs alleged that
Defendants chose profits above providing adequate care and Defendants were
understaffed.  (SAC par. 99.)  Plaintiffs’ allegations of underfunding and
understaffing is seen as the alleged intentional misconduct.  However, there are insufficient facts to
plead how Defendants’ decision to underfund/understaff knowingly would probably
result in serious injury to Plaintiffs. 
(See SAC pars. 101-104.)  The
allegations are conclusory.  The demurrer
arguments are persuasive.
The demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants’ demurrer to the third
COA for breach of contract argued that the alleged oral contract terms are in
conflict with the written contract and failed to allege breach.  The issue of the alleged conflict between the
written contract attached to Defendants’ RJN Exh. A and the allegations of an
oral contract were reviewed above and found to be insufficient to support a
demurrer/RJN.  The argument is
unpersuasive as reviewed above.  As to
the element of breach of the oral agreement, Plaintiffs’ claims are sufficient
to plead breach based upon the allegation that Defendants allegedly failed to
search Dakota, drug test Dakota, or further assess Dakota when he returned from
a pass acting abnormally and out of character. 
The arguments against the breach of contract COA are unpersuasive.  
The demurrer to the third COA is
OVERRULED.  
The January 8, 2024 Order
provided that the fourth COA for dependent adult abuse (Dependent Abuse) and
the fifth COA for financial abuse of a dependent adult (Financial Abuse) were
insufficiently supported with factual allegations as to Dakota’s status as a
dependent adult.  A dependent adult
includes any person “who has physical or mental limitations that restrict his
or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights,
including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or developmental
disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have diminished because of
age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, sec. 15610.23(a).)  Plaintiffs argued that Dakota is a dependent
adult because his drug addiction to fentanyl was a physical or mental
limitation that restricted his ability to carry out normal activities or to
protect his rights.  (SAC pars.
121-122.)  Plaintiffs argued that the
statute has no temporal restriction to the physical or mental limitation.  However, Plaintiffs do not provide any
opposing case law authority to support their contention that drug addiction can
be considered a physical or mental limitation that restricts  normal activities.  The case law involving physical or mental
limitations show that the limitations are ongoing and that those physical or
mental limitations restrict a person’s normal activities so much so that they
are dependent upon others to provide for the person’s normal activities (i.e.,
persons admitted to skilled nursing facilities.)  At minimum, Dakota’s “admission” to
Defendants’ facility showed that he was required to maintain his unit in a
healthy, orderly, and safe manner; make his bed every morning and return his
personal belongings in their place, complete chores at the facility, clean up
after himself including washing dishes and cups, and be fully clothed and wear
shoes while in the facility.  Defendants’
rules show that Dakota’s normal activities were not restricted.  Without sufficient fact pleading to show that
Dakota’s normal activities were not restricted, there is insufficient pleading
to support Plaintiffs’ claim that Dakota was a dependent adult.  The Court noted that this pleading defect was
the same pleading defect identified in the January 8, 2024 Order.  In that Plaintiffs’ failed to cure the
pleading defect, there is grounds to sustain the demurrer without leave to
amend.  
Defendants further argued that
there are insufficient facts that a corporate agent/employee neglected Dakota
in a reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious manner and that corporate
liability is insufficiently pled. 
Neglect is the denial or withholding of goods or services necessary to
meet the dependent adult's basic needs, “either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain  or with conscious
disregard of the high probability of such injury.”  As was reviewed in the willful misconduct COA
above, the allegations of the SAC are lacking in pleading facts to allege that
Defendants had knowledge that injury was substantially certain or had a high
probability of occurring.  Plaintiffs
alleged that Defendants failed/denied Dakota services in the form of a search,
drug test, or other assessment to diagnose that he was under the influence or
had in his possession drugs.  The
allegation that Dakota acted abnormally or out of character is conclusory and
insufficient fact pleading to provide that Defendants had knowledge of his
imminent relapse and death.   The
demurrer to the fourth COA for Dependent Adult Abuse is persuasive on this
pleading defect.  
Defendants argued that Plaintiffs
failed to allege facts to show authorization or ratification of the alleged
neglect by an officer, director, or managing agent.  Despite Defendants’ argument otherwise,
Plaintiffs sufficiently pled the allege neglect against Harman and Chang and
expressly alleged Harman and Chang’s ownership interest in the corporate
defendants.  (SAC pars. 10-11, 130.)  Defendants’ argument as to authorization or
ratification is unpersuasive because the argument misconstrued the factual allegations
in the SAC.
As to Financial Abuse, Defendants
argued that there are insufficient facts to show that Dakota’s money was taken,
secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained for a wrongful use or with an
intent to defraud or by undue influence. 
However, Defendants’ argument misconstrued the allegations because
Plaintiffs expressly alleged that Defendants, through Harman and Chang,
obtained Plaintiffs’ payment due to their false promises of drug abuse treatment.  The allegations for Financial Abuse are
sufficiently alleged.  
The demurrer to the fourth COA
for Dependent Abuse and the fifth COA for Financial Abuse is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND due to Plaintiffs’ failure to cure the pleading defect
previously identified in the January 8, 2024 Order.
Defendants argued that the sixth
COA for fraudulent misrepresentation and the seventh COA for concealment failed
to plead specific facts to allege the representations to be false, made with an
intent to deceive, or reasonable reliance. 
Plaintiffs alleged that the false representations and/or false promises
at issue were that Defendants  maintained
a drug-free residential environment as an SLH, capable of enforcing sobriety of
fentanyl addicts (SAC pars. 22-33) and that Defendants’ services included a
24-hour non-medical residential, alcohol and/or drug abuse recovery or
treatment service as an LTF (SAC par. 110). 
Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants concealed the fact that they were not
licensed to provide the 24-hour non-medical residential recovery or treatment
service.  (SAC par. 47.)  Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants were
issued a “Notice of Operation in Violation of Law” (Notice of Violation) from
DHCS for operating an unlicensed drug abuse recovery facility.  (SAC par. 20.)  Based upon the new allegation that DHCS
issued a Notice of Violation, Plaintiffs sufficiently pled facts to support the
pleading element of knowledge of the falsity and intent to deceive, at least,
as to the false representations/concealment that Defendants would provide
24-hour non-medical drug abuse recover/treatment services as an LTF.  On the alleged misrepresentations/concealment
related to LTF status, Plaintiffs cured the prior pleading defect.  As to the second part of the fraud claims
regarding the maintenance of a drug free SLH, Plaintiffs failed to present
facts to support the element of knowledge of the falsity or intent to
deceive.  However, demurrers do not lie
as to only parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged.  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  In that Plaintiffs
sufficiently pled the fraud COAs based upon the misrepresentations on the LTF
claims, the demurrer’s arguments as to knowledge of the falsity is insufficient
grounds to sustain the demurrer.
Plaintiffs further sufficiently
pled facts to support the pleading element of reasonable reliance because
Defendants are alleged to be the service provider with superior knowledge of
the services they can and are allegedly licensed to provide.  Defendants’ argument that insufficient facts
are pled as to reasonable reliance is unpersuasive.  Defendants argued that it was not reasonable
for Plaintiffs to rely on an SLH to 100% prevent a drug addict from obtaining
drugs and overdosing.  However, as
reviewed above the fraudulent representations are not that Defendants would
prevent drug use/overdosing 100%. 
Defendants misconstrued the claims of fraud and the argument is
unpersuasive.
Defendants argued that Plaintiffs
failed to alleged the how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered. 
Preliminarily, this argument is only applicable to the sixth COA for
active deceit and not applicable to concealment.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  However, Plaintiffs alleged that the false
representations were made at an in-person meeting with Plaintiffs, Harman and
Chang at Defendants’ facilities just prior to Dakota’s admission to Defendants’
facility.  (SAC pars. 44-45.)  These factual allegations are sufficient to
plead the how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.  It is further alleged that
Defendants made the false representations in advertising on Defendants’
website.  (SAC pars. 27-29.)  Defendants’ argument that the sixth COA
lacked specificity or particularity is unpersuasive.
Specifically as to the seventh
COA for concealment, Defendants argued that there are no facts to allege an
actual concealment.  However, concealment
is sufficiently alleged in that Defendants made disclosures regarding their
services but the representations were only partial truths (i.e., Defendants
agreed to provide services as an LTF but was not licensed).  At minimum, there is sufficient fact pleading
to allege a concealment and a duty to disclose based upon Defendants’ partial
disclosure of their services or their ability to provide services.  The argument is not persuasive as to the
seventh COA for concealment.  
The demurrer to the sixth and
seventh COA on the fraud-based claims is OVERRULED.
Defendants argued that the eighth
COA for UCL violation failed to plead facts alleging a deceptive business
practice.  However, as reviewed above in
the fraud-based COAs, at minimum, there are facts alleged to support the
pleading elements of unfair and fraudulent business practices based upon the
claims alleged in the fraud-based COAs. 
Defendants argued that they are merely a SLH but as reviewed above,
there are sufficient facts alleged to support the claims against Defendants as
an LTF.  The arguments are not
persuasive.
The demurrer to the eighth COA is
OVERRULED.  
Defendants Harman and Chang
separately argued that the claims alleged by Plaintiffs improperly lumped all
the Defendants together and did not differentiate the claims as to Harman and
Chang.  However, the argument is
unpersuasive because Plaintiffs referenced each COA against “Defendants, and
each of them,” which is sufficient to charge each Defendant with
liability.  (See SAC pars. 91, 93-95,
100.)  Further, Plaintiffs expressly
alleged that each Defendant acted as the “owner, servant, agent, joint-venturer,
employee or employer” of each of the other co-defendants; and “representative,
employee or agent,” and/or director, officer, managing agent or alter ego of
the corporate defendants.  (See SAC pars.
13-15.)  These allegations are sufficient
to link each COA to Defendants Harman and Chang, individually.  The argument is not persuasive.
Defendants moved to strike
Plaintiffs request for punitive and exemplary damages.  As of yet, the only two COAs that can support
punitive damages are the fraud-based claims. 
The sustaining of the demurrer to the willful misconduct COA and
Elder/Financial Abuse COAs makes arguments as to those claims moot.  In that the fraud COAs survived the demurrer,
the request for punitive damages is sufficiently grounded on the sixth and
seventh COAs for fraud.  Corporate
Defendants argued that there is insufficient facts to show ratification or the
knowledge of the unfitness of an employee. 
However, the fraudulent misrepresentations/false promises and
concealments were allegedly perpetrated by Harman and Chang – the owners of the
Corporate Defendants.  The conduct of
employees of the Corporate Defendants are not issue.  (SAC pars. 43-45)  In that the fraud was allegedly perpetrated
by Owners Harman and Chang, pleading ratification, or even authorization, is
not required.  Defendants arguments are
not persuasive.
The motion to strike punitive and
exemplary damages is DENIED.
Defendants moved to strike
statutory damages and attorneys’ fees under Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15610.57.  However, the issue is
MOOT due to the sustaining of the demurrer to the Elder Abuse and Financial
Abuse COAs.
Defendants move to strike the
request for treble damages under Code of Civil Procedure, section
1029.8(a).  The motion is grounded on the
arguments made in the demurrer regarding Defendants licensure or alleged lack thereof.  However, the Court found that there are
sufficient facts to support the claim that Defendants were required to be
licensed.  Thus, Defendants’ arguments
requesting to strike treble damages is unpersuasive and DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.