 Case Number:  23STCV30496    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV30496




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Starbucks
  Corporation 




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Ashley Bautista



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of the claims
Plaintiff Ashley Bautista (“Plaintiff”) asserts against Defendant.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant presents
an arbitration agreement Plaintiff does not dispute she signed when Defendant
hired her.  That agreement provides Plaintiff
and Defendant agree to arbitrate claims “brought under any statute, local
ordinance, or common law relating to [Plaintiff]'s employment, including those
concerning any element of compensation, harassment, discrimination,
retaliation, recovery of bonus or relocation benefits, leaves of absence,
accommodations, or termination of employment.” 
(Declaration of Kathryn Daly in Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration,
Exhibit F.)  Defendant has adequately demonstrated
the parties entered into an agreement to arbitrate their claims. 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is unconscionable under Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz).  The arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed
specifies the Federal Arbitration Act governs. 
A choice of law provision in an arbitration agreement is
enforceable.  (See Coopers &
Lybrand v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 538.)  As such, the Federal Arbitration Act
applies.  
Under the Federal
Arbitration Act, defenses that derive their meaning from the fact an agreement
to arbitrate is at issue cannot invalidate agreements to arbitrate.  (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339.)  The rules set forth
in Armendariz are specific to arbitration agreements.  (Abramson v. Juniper Networks, Inc.
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 661.)  These
rules, therefore, cannot invalidate the arbitration agreement between Plaintiff
and Defendant.  The Court considers
whether the arbitration agreement is unconscionable pursuant to generally
applicable principles of contract law.
Civil Code section
1670.5 provides “If the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any
clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the
court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of
the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the
application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable
result.”  (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd.
(a).)  Unconscionability is defined as
“an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”  (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486 (A & M Produce).)
Unconscionability
thus has a procedural and a substantive element.  (A & M Produce, supra, 135
Cal.App.3d at p. 486.)  The court
considers the factors of oppression and surprise in determining whether a
contract is procedurally unconscionable. 
(Ibid.)  Oppression refers
to inequality of bargaining power, which cuts off meaningful negotiation.  (Ibid.)  Surprise refers to the concealment of the
agreed-upon terms in a lengthy form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.  (Ibid.)  Substantive unconscionability refers to the
extent to which a contractual term reallocates the risks of a transaction “in
an objectively unreasonable or unexpected manner.”  (Id. at 487.)  Both substantive and procedural
unconscionability must be present for a contract to be unenforceable, and “the
greater the unfair surprise or inequality of bargaining power, the less
unreasonable the risk allocation which will be tolerated.”  (Ibid.)
The evidence
before the Court shows Defendant prepared the arbitration agreement, and
Plaintiff had no opportunity to negotiate or discuss its terms.   It is, therefore, a contract of
adhesion.  (Neal v. State Farm Ins.
Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.) 
This constitutes some evidence of procedural unconscionability.  (Flores v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc.
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853.)  
Plaintiff has not
demonstrated the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable.  Plaintiff argues the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it requires Plaintiff to waive statutory
claims with administrative agencies.  The
arbitration agreement, however, provides Plaintiff is “giving up the
opportunity to recover monetary amounts from” the equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, National Labor Relations Board, Department of Labor, or other
similar agencies, but may file a “claim or charge” with such agencies.  (Daly Declaration, supra, Exhibit F.) 
 In support of her contention, Plaintiff cites OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111 (OTO).  In OTO, an employee filed a complaint
with the Labor Commissioner for unpaid wages.  The employer offered to settle the complaint,
but the employee rejected the employer's settlement offer and requested a Berman
hearing, which is an informal hearing before the Labor Commissioner for an
employee with a claim for unpaid wages. 
The procedure offers protections for the employee, such as
representation by the Labor Commissioner on appeal if the employee cannot
afford representation.  The employer
filed a petition to compel arbitration and to stay the administrative
proceedings, which the hearing officer denied. 
The hearing officer proceeded with the hearing without the participation
of the employer, and awarded the employee unpaid wages, damages, and penalties.  The employer then sought to vacate the award
and compel arbitration.  (Id., at
pp. 118-121.)  
In finding the
agreement unconscionable and unenforceable, the Court noted “an arbitration
agreement is not categorically unconscionable solely because it entails a
waiver of the Berman procedure.  An
agreement to arbitrate wage disputes can be enforceable so long as it provides
an accessible and affordable process for resolving those disputes.” (OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 118.)   However, the Court noted the circumstances
involved such an unusually high level of procedural unconscionability that the
employee’s waiver of the Berman procedure was sufficient to render the
agreement substantively unconscionable and unenforceable.  (Ibid.)  The Court found that the arbitration
agreement was a contract of adhesion because the employer required the employee
to accept it as a condition of employment. (Id. at p. 126.)  The Court noted the employer used a low-level
employee to present the agreement, along with other employment-related
documents, to the subject employee at his workspace, which gave the employee
the impression the employer would not provide any explanation of the
significance of the agreement.  (Id.
at p. 127.)  
The Court further
found the employee did not know he was giving up his Berman rights, and
it related, “[t]he agreement is a paragon of prolixity, only slightly more than
a page long but written in an extremely small font.  The single dense paragraph covering
arbitration requires 51 lines .  . . .  The substance of the agreement is similarly
opaque.  The sentences are complex,
filled with statutory references and legal jargon.”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 128.)  The Court held, “Considering the unusually
coercive setting in which this bargain was entered, we conclude it was
sufficiently one-sided as to render the agreement unenforceable.”  (Id., at p. 136.)  The Court noted the result would differ if the
employer set out the terms of the arbitration agreement in a legible format and
understandable language or had given the employee a reasonable opportunity to
seek clarification or advice.  (Id.,
at p. 136.)
In the instant
case, the arbitration agreement is set forth in legible text and ordinary
language.  Plaintiff agreed to the
arbitration agreement after viewing it online at her convenience.  (Daly Declaration, supra,  ¶ 16, Exhibit H.)  As such, Plaintiff had ample opportunity to
read the arbitration agreement and seek advice, if necessary.  The circumstances in this instance do not
reflect the extraordinary level of procedural unconscionability at issue in OTO.  As such, Plaintiff has not demonstrated the
agreement is unconscionable.  
Plaintiff then
argues the waiver of Plaintiff’s right to bring class or representative claims
is unenforceable.  Plaintiff has the
right to bring a representative claim under the Labor Code Private Attorneys’
General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”) regardless of the arbitration agreement.  (See Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.)  However,
Plaintiff does not assert a representative claim.  Further, under the Federal Arbitration Act,
the court must compel arbitration of arbitrable claims, even if some claims are
not arbitrable. (KPMG LLP v. Cocchi (2011) 565 U.S. 18, 22.)  
Plaintiff also contends
the arbitration agreement attempts to require Plaintiff to waive a jury trial
in the event the case were to proceed to trial. 
Under the California Arbitration Act, a pre-dispute jury trial waiver is
evidence of substantive unconscionability. 
(Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436,
452.)  However, the Federal Arbitration
Act applies here.  Further, because Plaintiff’s
claims are arbitrable, this provision is inapplicable.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims is granted. 
Accordingly, the court will set an order to show cause why this case should
not be dismissed following arbitration.
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 