


[1]
“For exemplary damages against DOES where allowed under statute;”
 


[2]
“For preliminary and permanent injunctive relief to prevent further
dissemination or publication of Plaintiff’s home address, date of birth, or CII
Number in the possession of Defendants by any of them, whether on the State’s
firearms data web portal or any other publicly accessible database maintained
by the State or any of its departments or subdivisions;”
 


[3]
For a declaration by the Court under Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 as to
the rights, responsibilities, and obligations of Plaintiff and Defendants to
one another, and each of them, including, specifically, as to the obligation of
Defendants of the further steps they must take to safeguard and refrain from
publicly disclosing information obtained or kept by Defendants as a result of
Plaintiff’s application for or holding of a CCW permit, including specifically,
the home address, date of birth, and CII information contained therein, and for
any other declarations and orders necessary to effect a remedy sought or
available under the causes of action pled hereinabove;”
 


[4]
The FAC incorrectly labels the fifth cause of action as a sixth cause of
action.
 


[5]
Plaintiff has previously appeared before Hon. Upinder S. Kalra while he was assigned
to the Criminal Division.
 


[6]
Plaintiff cites no authority to support her position.
 


[7]
Plaintiff refers to this to indicate the potential for another data leak of her
information. 
 


[8]
Plaintiff’s alternative argument cuts both ways. Plaintiff is welcome to
request leave to file an amended complaint if she discovers evidence to support
declaratory relief. 
 


[9]
Plaintiffs who seek declaratory relief tend to file them in the context of
contract claims, interpreting statutes, or future rights. (See, e.g., Market Lofts Comm. Ass’n v. 9th St. Market
Lofts, LLC (2014) 222, Cal.4th 924, 931 [party seeking interpretation of
agreements]; Columbia Pictures Corp. v.
De Toth (1945) 25 Cal.2d 753, 760 [oral employment contract]; California Pub. Records Research, Inc. v.
County of Yolo (2016) 4 Cal.5th 150, 185 [interpreting statute]; Monterey Coastkeeper v. Central Coast
Regional Water Quality Control Bd. (2022) 76 Cal.5th 1, 13 [future
rights].) Here, Plaintiff’s FAC has causes of action for violating laws and
torts. 


[10]In
regards to Plaintiff’s argument that through discovery, Plaintiff may learn that
Defendant’s “handling practices” are deficient to prevent future leaks, if
Plaintiff adduces such evidence, Plaintiff may always seek to amend the
pleadings.


[11]
Defendant cites to Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. v. Superior Court 14 Cal.5th 758 for the proposition that
public entities are shielded from punitive damages. The parties do not dispute
this. Instead, Defendant seeks to strike exemplary damages against the DOE
defendants who happen to work for a public entity. Defendant is not a “Doe.”
Nor is there any representation that their counsel currently represents these “Does.”
Moreover, the court notes that there are conflicting allegations. First, the
FAC has two allegations of “course and scope” of employment. (FAC ¶¶ 11, 62.)
Second, the FAC has two other allegations that comport to the law excluding
employees who were acting in their official capacity. (FAC ¶¶ 12, 45.)

