 Case Number:  22STCV13627    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COHAUS LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CHARLES WESTPHAL, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV13627
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER
  TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 14, 2024



 
On April 25, 2022, Cohaus LLC
filed this action against Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC, Family Living Avenue
53 LLC, Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC, and others.
On
January 11, 2024, Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC, Family Living Avenue 53 LLC,
and Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed
a first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) against Lindon Shiao, Cohaus LLC, Young
Min Chun, and Sung Ki Min (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”).
On
February 9, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a demurrer.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Cross-Defendants
ask the Court to take judicial notice of the Collaboration Agreement.  Because the FACC refers to this agreement, which
was also attached to the Complaint, it is an appropriate matter for judicial notice.  (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956 fn. 6.) The request is granted.
Cross-Defendants
also ask the Court to take judicial notice of the Secretary of State of California
business filing records for Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC, showing that entity
was created on January 10, 2020.  The request
is granted.
DEMURRER
Cross-Defendants
demur to the first four causes of action.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  A special demurrer
for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant
or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  “Because
a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to
matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.        Cross-Complainants Cannot Allege Breach
of Contract by Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC and Family Living Berryman Avenue
LLC (First Cause of Action).
Cross-Defendants
argue that Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC and Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC
are not parties to the contract.  (Demurrer
at p. 4.)  Only Family Living Avenue 53 LLC
and Cohaus LLC are parties to the Collaboration Agreement.  (Complaint, Ex. A; Demurrer RJN, Ex. A.)  Cross-Complainants do not address this in their
opposition.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend with respect to Cross-Complainants
Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC’s and Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC’s first
cause of action.
B.        The FACC Sufficiently Alleges the Elements
for Breach of Contract (First Cause of Action).
The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage
to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network,
Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Cross-Defendants
argue that the FACC does not allege that Cross-Complainants performed under the
contract or that the breach was a substantial factor in causing their harm.  (Demurrer at pp. 5-6.)  The FACC does, however, allege that “Cross-Complainants
fully performed their obligations under the Collaboration Agreement,” and “The Family
Living Entities satisfied all material obligations they owed to Cohaus in the Collaboration
Agreement.”  (FACC ¶¶ 71, 74.)  The FACC also alleges, “As the proximate result
of the foregoing breaches of contract by Cohaus, Cross-Complainants have suffered
damages . . . .”  (FACC ¶ 75.)
The
demurrer is overruled on this ground.
C.        The FACC Pleads Some, But Not All, Fraud
with Specificity (Second Cause of Action).
Cross-Defendants
argue that the FACC does not allege fraud with specificity.  (Demurrer at pp. 7-11.)
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)  Fraud must be pleaded with specificity.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  “‘This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.’  [Citation.] 
A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer
is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff
must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.’  [Citation.]”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645 (Lazar).)
The
FACC alleges that Shiao and Chun, on behalf of Cohaus made certain representations
in October 2019, and Mr. von Watts established the Cross-Complainant entities in
reliance on those representations.  (FACC
¶¶ 22-23, 77.)  Other representations were
made in the written Collaboration Agreement. 
(FACC ¶¶ 25-30, 77.)  Cohaus and its
principals (Shiao and Chun) made additional specific representations during meetings
in September, October, and November 2019. 
(FACC ¶¶ 31-39, 77.)  These representations
ended up being false.  (See FACC ¶¶ 54-60,
78.)  Cross-Complainants allege that they
“justifiably and reasonably relied on these misrepresentations” to their detriment.  (FACC ¶¶ 79-80.)  Although there are not facts about Cross-Complainants’
reliance on most representations, there are facts about reliance for at least one
representation.  (FACC ¶¶ 22-23.)  “Ordinarily, a general demurrer does not lie as
to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly
pleaded, the demurrer will be overruled.” 
(Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446,
452.)  The demurrer is therefore overruled
on this ground.
Cross-Defendants
argue that Family Living Berryman LLC was not in existence until January 14, 2020.  (Demurrer at p. 8; see Demurrer RJN, Ex. B.)  The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend
with respect to Cross-Complainant Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC’s second cause
of action.
Cross-Defendants
argue that there is no specific allegation of intentional misrepresentation by Min.  (Demurrer at p. 8.)  The demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend with respect to allegations about Sung Ki
Min.
D.        The Cause of Action for Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing is Superfluous (Third Cause of Action).
Cross-Defendants
argue that the third cause of action is superfluous because there are no allegations
about what benefits they prevented Cross-Complainants from receiving in addition
to the contract damages.  (Demurrer at pp.
11-12.)
“If
the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying
on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed
in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous
as no additional claim is actually stated. 
Thus, absent those limited cases where a breach of a consensual contract
term is not claimed or alleged, the only justification for asserting a separate
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.”  (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
The
FACC alleges that the Collaboration Agreement “contains an implied covenant to seek
out and deliver to the Family Living Entities qualified investment opportunities
and to manage the development and construction of their operation in an ethical,
safe, and appropriate manner.”  (FACC ¶ 84.)  The agreement contains an express term that “COHAUS
will present qualified projects meeting the investment criteria for consideration
by Family Living Avenue LLC.”  (Demurrer RJN,
Ex. A, § 3(a).)  Additionally, “[o]nce a property
undergoes conversion into a coliving facility and becomes operational, COHAUS will
manage all aspects of operations.”  (Id.,
§ 5(a).)  The alleged implied covenant is
therefore superfluous of the breach of contract claim.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
E.        The FACC Sufficiently Alleges Unfair Business
Practices (Fourth Cause of Action).
California’s
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) includes any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)  The UCL embraces “anything that can properly be
called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles
Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing any unlawful business practice,
section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices
that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Ibid.; see Klein v. Earth Elements,
Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969 [“Virtually any law can serve as the predicate
for a section 17200 action.”].)
Cross-Defendants
argue that “[n]o specific unlawful, fraudulent and/or unfair business practices
are attributed to them, and the request to enjoin conduct and disgorge profits is
so vague as to be unenforceable.”  (Demurrer
at p. 12.)  The fourth cause of action incorporates
all prior allegations, including those about fraud.  (FACC ¶¶ 89-90.)  The FACC alleges that “Cross-Defendants have reaped
and continue to reap unfair benefits and illegal profits at the expense of Cross-Complainants.  Cross-Defendants should be enjoined from such
conduct and made to disgorge their ill-gotten gains and restore to Cross-Complainants
all wrongfully obtained benefits and profits. 
Cross-Defendants should also disgorge their ill-gotten gains kept from any
monies they wrongfully obtained though their wrongful actions.”  (FACC ¶ 92.) 
This is sufficient at the pleading stage.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART and OVERRULED IN PART as set forth above.  Cross-Complainants are granted 30 days’ leave
to amend as set forth above.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 