 Case Number:  23LBCV00323    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff propounded SROGs on Defendant on 8/07/23.  Responses were due on or before Friday, 9/08/23.  Plaintiff, having not received responses,
filed this motion on Monday, 9/11/23.  He
served the motion on Saturday, 9/09/23, by email.  Plaintiff seeks to compel responses, without
objections, to the SROGs.  He also seeks
imposition of sanctions.
 
Defendant filed timely opposition to the motion.  In the opposition, Defendant indicates he
served responses to the subject SROGs on 9/11/23.  He concedes his responses included objections,
and seeks a court order relieving him from the waiver of objections on the ground
that the failure to timely serve responses was due to a clerical error.  He contends his proposed objections have
merit, and he argues sanctions should not be imposed.  
2.    
Substance
The motions are substantively moot because Defendant served responses
to the outstanding discovery the same day the motion was filed.  The Court will not consider whether to
relieve Defendant from waiver of objections, and will also not consider whether
the objections have merit.  These issues
would need to be determined by way of a motion for relief from waiver of discovery
objections (brought pursuant to CCP §2030.290(a)), and/or a motion to compel
further responses (brought pursuant to §2030.300).  The Court strongly encourages the parties to
resolve these issues without the need for law and motion practice, especially
the issue of waiver of objections, as it appears clear the standard in §2030.290(a)
has been met.    
 
3.    
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks imposition of sanctions in connection with the motion.  CCP §2030.290(c) requires the Court to impose
sanctions unless it finds the opposing party acted with good cause or
substantial justification.  The Court
makes that finding here.  Plaintiff
rushed to file the motion on the very next day after responses were due, going
so far as to serve the papers on a Saturday with responses due on Friday.  Responses were served the very next business
day, a Monday, and Defendant establishes the responses were untimely due to a
clerical error.  It was unreasonable of
Plaintiff not to reach out to Defendant prior to filing the motion, and the
Court will not award Plaintiff for this conduct.  
 
No sanctions are imposed.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   