 Case Number:  22LBCV00956    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff
Allan J. Williams II filed a complaint against Defendant Memorial Health
Services challenging the accessibility of Defendant’s website. Plaintiff states
that he is deaf and the videos on the website lacked closed captioning, which
made him unable to fully understand and consume the contents of the videos.
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act; and (2) violation of the California Disabled
Persons Act.
On July 20, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendant Memorial’s Demurrer to the Complaint with 20 days leave to
amend.  On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint alleging (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act;
and (2) violation of the California Disabled Persons Act.  
2.     Demurrer
to FAC 
a.    
Meet and Confer 
            CCP section
430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the
pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).)
            Defense
counsel submits a declaration stating that the parties met and conferred by
phone, but
were unable to reach an agreement resolving the objections
raised in Defendant’s demurrer.
(Hurley Decl. ¶ 3.) This satisfies the meet and confer
requirement.
b.    
Legal Standard
            A demurrer
is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises
issues of
law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing
party’s pleading. It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of
the complaint; and for purpose of the
ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint
are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
            A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are
judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered (i.e., no “speaking
demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10
[grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on
its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and §
430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire
complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a
demurrer may be brought per CCP §
430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted. Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore,
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond. (CCP §
430.10(f).)
            However, in
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations
that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation
of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764,
769.) And, if the facts pled in the complaint
are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by
reference from exhibits attached to the
complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control.
Further, irrespective of the name or
label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general
demurrer must be overruled if the facts
as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim
for relief.
            Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.)
c.    
Request for Judicial Notice 
            Defendant
requests judicial notice of (1) Order in Chris Langer v. Equity Lifestyle
Properties, Inc., United States District Court Case No. 2:22-10165-JAK-SK;
and (2) Order in Luis Licea v. Nav Technologies, Inc., Superior Court of
Los Angeles Case No. 21STCV32411.
            This
request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).  The existence of these decisions is
judicially noticed.  
            Defendant
requests judicial notice of the website URL at issue in the FAC 
https://www.millerchildrens.memorialcare.org/about-us  and www.millerchildrenshospitallb.org/giving.  Defendant asks that the Court take judicial
notice of these URLs and their contents per Evidence Code §452(h) as “facts and
proposition that are no reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  URLs and their
content are not similar to the categories of documents described in the
Legislative Comment to Evidence as judicially noticeable under Code §452(h):  “Subdivision (h) provides for judicial notice
of indisputable facts immediately ascertainable by reference to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy. In other words, the facts need not be
actually known if they are readily ascertainable and indisputable. Sources of ‘reasonably
indisputable accuracy’ include not only treatises, encyclopedias, almanacs, and
the like, but also persons learned in the subject matter. This would not mean
that reference works would be received in evidence or sent to the jury room.
Their use would be limited to consultation by the judge and the parties for the
purposes of determining whether or not to take judicial notice and determining
the tenor of the matter to be noticed. 
[¶]  Subdivisions (g) and (h)
include, for example, facts which are accepted as established by experts and
specialists in the natural, physical, and social sciences, if those facts are
of such wide acceptance that to submit them to the jury would be to risk
irrational findings. These subdivisions include such matters listed in Code of
Civil Procedure Section 1875 as the ‘geographical divisions and political
history of the world.’  To the extent
that subdivisions (g) and (h) overlap subdivision (f) of Section 451, notice
is, of course, mandatory under Section 451.” 
(Evidence Code §452, Legislative Comment.)  The request to judicially notice the URLs is
denied.  
d.    
Parties Positions 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff cannot allege standing to pursue either an ADA or UCRA claim,
because Plaintiff fails to allege what pediatric services he sought to use, whether
he has ever visited a Memorial Health Services’ location or visited another
pediatrician, and an actual issued encountered that prevented him from using
the services at a brick-and-mortar location. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to allege that he intends to return to
the website for any reason other than to test it.  
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s UCRA claim fails because no violation of the ADA is
alleged.  Defendant argues a lack of
closed captioning is not a violation of the ADA.  Defendant argues online captioning has not
been required of private entities.  In
addition, Defendant argues websites absent a nexus to a physical location are
also not a “place of public accommodation” and the inability to view the video
is not a violation.  
            Defendant
argues this failure to allege denial of any accommodations at a brick and
mortar location is also fatal to Plaintiff’s UCRA claim.  Defendant argues that both the UCRA and DPA
are premised on an ADA violation. 
Defendant argues that no such violation is alleged and both claims
fail.  
            Defendant
argues the UCRA also requires intentional discrimination.  Defendant argues there are no facts to
support a finding of intentional discrimination in maintaining a website that
is equally accessible to him and other disabled hearing impaired
individuals.    
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff has not alleged any facts indicating a bona fide intent to use
Defendant’s services through the website. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has still not alleged that he coujld not
access details about the hospital, location or contact information, nor that an
inability to access these details corresponded to an inability to access the
services of the business.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff continues to allege he was a “tester.”  
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues a website is a “place of public accommodation,” so long as
there is a nexus between the website and a physical location.  Plaintiff argues he has alleged such a
nexus.  Plaintiff argues the website
itself is a benefit offered to customers and there is a nexus between Memorial
Health Services’ customers and its physical place of accommodation, the
Hospital in Long Beach.  Plaintiff
alleges he visited the website with the ultimate intention of obtaining
pediatric services for his child. 
Plaintiff argues the website steers business to Defendant and there is a
nexus between it and a physical place of accommodation.  
            Plaintiff
argues the ADA applies to all services provided by a place of public
accommodation.  Plaintiff argues the
website was offered as a service, benefit and privilege of Memorial Health’s
Hospital in Long Beach. Plaintiff argues he is hearing impaired and the alleged
benefit (website and videos on the website) with closed captioning is an ADA
violation.  
            Plaintiff
argues the ADA does not require intentional conduct to constitute a
violation.  Plaintiff argues that the
Unruh Act states that any ADA violation shall also constitute a violation of
Unruh. Plaintiff argues intentional conduct is therefore not required to state
a claim under Unruh.
            In reply,
Defendant maintains Plaintiff has not established an ADA violation and
therefore no Unruh or DPA violation is alleged. 
Defendant argues captioning is not required under the ADA and even if it
were, the website would only be an ADA violation if it impeded Plaintiff’s
access to the goods and services of Defendant’s physical location.  Defendant argues Plaintiff has not pled
denial of access to goods and services at Defendant’s physical location due to
the lack of closed captioning on the website. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff concedes that intentional discrimination must
be pled to state a claim under Unruh if the claim is not based on a violation
of the ADA.  Defendant argues Plaintiff
lacks standing because he does not dispute that he was a “tester.”  Defendant argues Plaintiff only has standing
to sue under the Unruh Act if he had a bona fide intent to use a business’s services.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s assertion that
he was both a tester and an bona fide user is insufficient to satisfy the “bona
fide patron” requirement.  
e.    
Plaintiff alleges an ADA violation
sufficient to state a claim for violation of Unruh and the Disabled Persons Act

            The
Unruh Civil Rights Act guarantees every person in California “full and equal”
access to “all
business establishments of every kind whatsoever” and
imposes a duty on business
establishments to serve all persons without arbitrary
discrimination. (Isbister v. Boys’ Club of
Santa Cruz, Inc. (1985) 50 Cal.3d 72, 75.) The
Disabled Persons Act similarly prohibits denying
or interfering with a disabled person’s admittance to or
enjoyment of public facilities. (Civ. Code
§ 54 et seq.) A plaintiff claiming disability discrimination
may assert claims under both the
Disabled Persons Act and the Unruh Act as the Acts are
“plainly consistent” and may be asserted
simultaneously. (Flowers v. Prasad (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 930, 940-942.) To state a claim
under either the Unruh Act or the DPA based on a violation
of the ADA, a plaintiff must plead a
violation of the ADA. Specifically, Plaintiff must allege
(1) he is disabled within the meaning of
the ADA; (2) Defendant is a private entity that owns,
leases, or operates a place of public
accommodation; and (3) that he was denied public
accommodations by Defendant because of his
disability. (Molski v. M.J. Cable, Inc. (9th Cir.
2007) 481 F.3d 724, 730.) A plaintiff asserting an
Unruh Act claim based on violations of the ADA is not
required to prove intentional
discrimination. (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46
Cal.4th 661, 672.)
            1.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges facts
establishing that Defendant’s website is connected to “place of public accommodation”
such that the ADA applies 
As the Court previously noted in
its July 20, 2023 Order, a website can be a “place of public accommodation” for
purposes of the ADA where there is a sufficient nexus between the websites and
a physical place of public accommodation. (Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 634, 642 [“At a minimum, Title III covers a website
with a nexus to a physical place of public accommodation”]; Martinez v. San
Diego County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1066-1067 [“courts
applying the nexus test consider whether the alleged website deficiencies
impinge on the plaintiff’s ability to have equal access to, and enjoyment of,
the products and services offered at the physical location”].)  
Including Websites “connected to a
physical place of public accommodation” in the definition of a public
accommodation under the ADA “is not only consistent with the plaintiff language
of Title III, but it is also consistent with Congress’s mandate that the ADA
keep pace with changing technology to effectuate the intent of the
statute.”  (Thurston, supra,
39 Cal.App.5th at 644.)  The
nexus required between the physical place of accommodation and the website does
not require that the user be able to order online the specific goods or services
provided at the physical place of public accommodation.  The website need only “connect” the user with
the services of the restaurant.  (Id.
at 646 (Ninth Circuit stated “nexus requirement very broadly to included
website and app that “connect customers to the goods and services of Domino’s
physical restaurants)(citing Robles v. Domino’s Pizza, LLC (9th
Cir. 2019) 913 F.3d 898, 905).)  
Thus, the fact that users of the
restaurant website in Thurston could only view the menu and make
reservations, but not order a meal for delivery, was sufficient to “connect”
the user to the services of the restaurant: 
“We see no significant difference between ordering a refill of a
prescription or prints of photos via Target's website and studying the menu and
making a reservation for a meal at appellant's restaurant. In both cases, the
customer is simply speeding up his experience at the physical location:
his prescription or photos will be ready when he arrives at Target and his
table will be ready when he arrives at The Whisper Lounge.”  (Thurston, supra, 39
Cal.App.5th at 645.) Likewise, in Robles, the Ninth Circuit found it
sufficient that an app and website “facilitate access to the goods and
services of a place of public accommodation—Domino’s physical restaurants.”  (Robles, supra, 913 F.3d at 905
(app and website that allowed customers to place orders for pickup at physical
Domino’s location had sufficient nexus with physical place of public
accommodation to qualify as places of public accommodation subject to the ADA
themselves.)  
Recently, in Martinez v. Cot’n
Wash, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1026, 1032-1033, the California
Court of Appeals reaffirmed the requirement that a website be connected to a
physical space.  The Court of Appeals
affirmed dismissal of the plaintiff’s Unruh claim based on an internet
retailer’s failure to maintain a retail website that was compatible with screen
reading software for the visually impaired. 
(Martinez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at 1032.)  “As to the ADA violation theory, Martinez has
not alleged, as he must in order for Title III of the ADA to apply, that CW's
website constitutes a ‘place of public accommodation.’ (42 U.S.C. § 12182(a).)
Under current law, we cannot read this phrase as including retail websites
without any connection to a physical space.” 
(Martinez v. Cot’n Wash, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th at
1032 (acknowledging confusion surrounding under what circumstances websites
qualify as “places of public accommodation” under ADA and Congress’s failure to
amend the ADA to clarify whether and under what circumstances a website can
constitute a ‘place of public accommodation’ despite Congress’s recognition of lack
of clarity on the point and existence of federal circuit split on the issue).
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that
Defendant’s website is connected to its physical location of its business,
Memorial Care Miler’s Children’s & Women’s Hospital (“Hospital”), a
physical place of public accommodation. 
(FAC, ¶¶2, 17 and 18.)  Plaintiff
alleges the website provides information about the Hospital, “allowing patrons
to learn about the Hospital’s services, pediatric practice, and types of care
as well as the business itself, all without leaving their home” and that some
of the information is provided in videos. 
(FAC, ¶¶18 and 26.)  Plaintiff
alleges he was unable to hear videos on the Hospital’s website that provided
general information about the Hospital and its community investments.  (FAC, ¶20.) 
Plaintiff alleges the videos did not have closed captioning or
subtitles.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges he “was unable to glean the
information he had hoped to find and therefore decided against using the
Hospital’s pediatric services.  (Id.
at ¶22.)  
Plaintiff’s allegations
sufficiently establish that that the website “facilitates” or “speeds up” patrons’
visits or consumption of the Hospital’s services by providing general
information regarding the Hospital and the services provided there.  Certainly, on the spectrum of what qualifies
as a website “connected” to a physical place of public accommodation,
Defendant’s alleged website is closer to the restaurant website in Thurston
that provided a menu for online patrons and the ability to reserve a table than
it is to the online retailer with no connection to any physical place of
accommodation in Martinez.  As
acknowledged in Martinez, the rules governing when a website qualifies
as a “place of public accommodation” is unsettled but based on Robles,
the definition of when a website is “connected” to a physical place of public
accommodation should be read broadly. 
Applying the definition of “connected” and “nexus” broadly, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges that Defendant’s website is a place of public
accommodation.
            2.  Plaintiff alleges he was unable to access the
website such that he was denied accommodation and is an aggrieved person with
standing  
              For a claim under the Unruh or the
DPA, a plaintiff must have Article III standing as a “person aggrieved.” (Midpeninsula
Citizens for Fair Housing v. Westwood Investors (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1377,
1384; National Federation of the Blind v. Target Corp. (2007) 582
F.Supp.2d 1185.) This means that a plaintiff must either have “tendered the
purchase price for a business’s services or products” or “has personally
experienced discriminatory treatment at a business establishment, or must have
been deterred from visiting a business or attempting to use its services as a
result of discriminatory practices.” (Surrey v. TrueBeginnings (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 414, 416; Osborne v. Yasmeh (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1118,
1133-1135; Botosan v. Paul McNally Realty (9th Cir. 2000) 216 F.3d 827,
835.) 
              A person who visits a business’s
website must allege that “he or she visited the business’s
website,
encountered discriminatory terms, and intended to make use of the business’s
services”
in order to allege
standing. (White v. Square, Inc. (2019) 7
Cal.5th 1019, 1023-1024; Thurston v. Omni Hotels Mgmt. Corp. (2021)
69 Cal.App.5th 299, 306.) The person visiting the website must allege a bona
fide intent to use its services. (White, supra, 7 Cal.5th at
1023-1024; Thurston, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at 308.) The
interaction with the website is analogous to a person who intends to patronize
a brick-and-mortar establishment. (White, supra, 7 Cal.5th at 1023-1024.)
              Plaintiff alleges he visited the
website with the “ultimate intention of obtaining pediatric services for his
child at the Hospital in Long Beach.” 
(FAC, ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges he
was unable to hear videos on the Hospital’s website that provided general
information about the Hospital, its community investments and pediatric
practices.  (FAC, ¶¶20, 25.)  Plaintiff alleges the videos did not have
closed captioning or subtitles.  (Id.
at 20.)  Plaintiff alleges he “was unable
to glean the information he had hoped to find and therefore decided against
using the Hospital’s pediatric services” and “denied full and equal access to
the audio components of the videos on the Website.”  (Id. at ¶¶22 and 24.)  Plaintiff alleges he has been “deterred” from
“returning to the Website to avail himself of its benefits and to determine
compliance wit the disability access laws” because of the “discriminatory
barriers” that exist due to the lack of closed captioning or subtitles.  (Id. at ¶¶27-23.)  Plaintiff alleges his “personal encounter
with the Website’s inaccessible video content deterred  him 
from  further  use 
of  the  Website 
and  ultimate  patronage 
of  the Hospital’s pediatric care
for his child.”  (Id. at
¶23.)  
              Based on these allegations,
Plaintiff sufficiently pleads that he is an aggrieved person under the ADA.  Plaintiff alleges that he intended to use the
pediatric services at the Hospital, as well as the services provided on the
website, that he encountered discriminatory conditions and that he was deterred
from using the pediatric services at the Hospital due to those discriminatory
conditions.  (FAC, ¶¶20-24; White,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at 1023-1024; Surrey, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th
at 416.)  
              Defendant argues a lack of closed
captioning is not a violation of the ADA, because Plaintiff fails to allege a
“Design Standard” that requires closed captioning.  However, the “Design Standards” referenced by
Defendant applies to the construction of physical places of public
accommodations.  (Colorado Cross
Disability Coalition v. Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (2014) 765 F.3d 1205,
1217-1218 (“The Design Standards apply in phases: Public accommodations that
were newly constructed or altered after January 26, 1993, but before
September 15, 2010, need only comply with the 1991 Standards”)(alleged ADA
violations in layout of Hollister clothing stores); U.S. v. National
Amusements, Inc. (2001) 180 F.Supp.2d 251, 258 (defendants allegedly
constructed and operated “stadium-style theaters” that denied equal access to
persons who use wheelchairs).)
Plaintiff alleges an ADA violation
based on failure to provide closed captioning on a video on Defendant’s
website, not an aspect of physical structure. 
Plaintiff need not allege violation of a “design standard.”  The ADA does not specifically describe which
features are required to make a website accessible, and the Department of
Justice (“DOJ”) has not yet issued guidelines for website accessibility.
Instead, the regulations broadly require public accommodations to “furnish
appropriate auxiliary aids and services where necessary to ensure effective
communication with individuals with disabilities.”  (28 C.F.R. § 36.303(c)(1).)  “[A]uxiliary aids and services” include
“closed caption decoders; open and closed captioning, including real-time
captioning; ... or other effective methods of making aurally delivered
information available to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing.”  (28 C.F.R. § 36.303(b)(1).)  
Plaintiff also cites to the World
Wide Web Consortium (“W3C”)’s accessibility guidelines as industry standard.  (FAC, ¶¶30-31.)  Though WCAG are “private, unenforceable
guidelines,” (Robles, supra, 913 F.3d at 907), they “have been
widely adopted, including by federal agencies, which conform their
public-facing electronic content to” WCAG standards.  (Id. at 902 n. 1.)  
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff fails to allege a “bona fide intent” to use its services, because
Plaintiff allege that he is a “tester in this litigation.”  Plaintiff alleges that he accessed the
website with the intent of bringing his child to the Hospital for pediatric
services.  (FAC, ¶19.)  Plaintiff’s intent is itself a fact, and the
Court must accept the truth of that allegation on demurrer.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegation that he is
also a tester in this litigation is not irreconcilable with his allegation that
he accessed the website with the intent of obtaining pediatric services for his
child.  
In addition, Thurston v. Omni
Hotels Mgmt. Corp. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 299 is distinguishable.  Thurston involved the appeal of a jury
verdict, not the sufficiency of complaint allegations.  The jury rejected the plaintiff’s claim of
bona fide intent after trial and found based on the evidence that she never
intended to make a hotel reservation or ascertain defendant’s prices and
accommodations for the purpose of making a hotel reservation.  “Beyond the pleading stage, if a
plaintiff wants to prevail on an Unruh Civil Rights Act claim, he or she must
present sufficient evidence to overcome the online defendant's argument that he
or she did not actually possess a bona fide intent to sign up for or use its
services.”  (Thurston, supra,
69 Cal.App.5th at 307.)  Here,
parties are still at the pleading stage. 

Finally, Defendant cites to a trial
court order in Luis Licea v. Nav Technologies, Inc. 21STCV32411 in
support of its position that Plaintiff cannot plead “dual motivation.”  “Trial courts do not make binding
precedents.”  (9 Witkin (6th ed. 2021) California
Procedure, Appeal §507.)  “When
collected and readily available for study,” trial court orders “may be cited
for their persuasive value and are occasionally followed in the absence of
controlling higher authority.”  (Id.)  However, an isolated ruling that is not part
of a readily available compilation is not citable for its persuasive
value.  (Santa Ana Hosp. Med. Center
v. Belshé (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 830.) 
Defendants are admonished not to cite to isolated trial court rulings as
authority in the future.  
Moreover, based on a review of the
trial court’s ruling in Luis Licea, the discussion regarding bona fide
intent was not necessary to the ruling and merely provided “as guidance on the
amended complaint.”  (Defendant’s RJN on
Reply, 20:9-11.)  The ruling also found
that plaintiff “does not expressly allege that he visited the business’s
website with the intent to make use of the business’s products or
services.”  (Id. at 21:1-2.)  Here, Plaintiff expressly alleges he visited
Defendant’s website with the intent to bring his child to the Hospital for
pediatric services.  (FAC, ¶19.)  
            3.  Plaintiff alleges an ADA violation and
therefore does not need to allege intentional discrimination  
            Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges an ADA violation sufficient to support a claim under the
Unruh Act and the DPA.  Plaintiff is
therefore not required to allege intentional discrimination to state a claim
under Unruh.  (Munson v. Del Taco,
Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 672.)
3.         Conclusion
Defendant’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Defendant to answer in 20 days.  
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.