 Case Number:  22LBCV00062    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Hany Hegazy, Taha Deif,
Moustafa Ahmed Shokr, and TMH, LLC filed this action against Defendants, Giang
Hong and Hai Hong on 2/10/22.  Plaintiffs
added Suong Thi Trinh as a doe defendant. 
Notably, Giang Hong has passed away. 

 
On 12/13/22, Trinh filed a demurrer
to the complaint.  Prior to the hearing,
Plaintiffs filed their operative First Amended Complaint on 3/15/23.  The FAC includes causes of action for conversion,
fraud and deceit, breach of written lease contracts, and breach of oral
contract.  
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants agreed
to lease commercial property to them, and represented to them the property was zoned
for the use that they intended. 
Plaintiffs allege they spent $70,000 building out the property, but were
unable to obtain permits to operate their intended mini-market and smoke shop
because the premises were not zoned for such use.  
 

Demurrer to FAC

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Prior
Rulings re: Meet and Confer
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 10/03/23.  The
Court continued the hearing to 11/07/23 to require the parties to meet and
confer.  On 11/07/23, the Court continued
the hearing to require the parties to brief specified issues that had not been
addressed.  
 
At this time, the Court will
attempt to address each argument made in the original demurrer, using all the
original and subsequent papers to analyze the issues presented.
 
c.     THM,
LLC
Defendant, in the original
demurrer, contended TMH, LLC had all powers terminated and canceled by the
Secretary of State, and therefore concluded it could not pursue any relief in
this action.  Plaintiffs failed to
address the issue in their original opposition, and it was also not addressed
in the first round of meet and confer briefing. 
Plaintiffs addressed the issue in their 11/22/23 supplemental
brief.  They argue Corporations Code
§17707.06 specifically allows a cancelled LLC to pursue a lawsuit after it has
been cancelled.  §17707.06(a) makes clear
that an LLC with a certificate of cancellation continues to exist for the
purpose of winding up its affairs, including prosecuting and defending actions
to collect and discharge obligations.  Defendant,
in the moving demurrer, argues this lawsuit is not a type of “winding up affairs”
contemplated by the Code.  Whether this
lawsuit constitutes winding up affairs or not is outside the scope of the
pleadings and cannot be determined on demurrer. 
The demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
d.     Shokr
and TMH
Defendant next argues Shokr and TMH
are not proper parties to the lawsuit because only Hegazy and Deif are signatories
to the subject leases, not Shokr and TMH. 

 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer,
first argue Hegazy, Deif, and Shokr are all members of TMH, and all have
suffered cognizable harm as a result of Defendant’s misrepresentations.  Whether or not a person suffers harm is not the
test of whether or not a cause of action lies between the plaintiff and the
defendant.  There must be some duty, sounding
in contract or tort, running between the parties.  In this case, there is a contract between
Hegazy and Deif, on the one hand, and Defendant, on the other hand.  That contract forms the basis of their duties;
simply being injured does not create a duty.
 
Plaintiffs also argue, in opposition
to the demurrer, that Shokr and TMH are intended third party beneficiaries of the
contract.  Plaintiffs do not meaningfully
brief this issue in opposition to the demurrer. 
They merely indicate that California law allows third party
beneficiaries to sue under a contract, and then conclude that they are such
beneficiaries and should be allowed to sue. 
They do not point to any allegation in the FAC that establishes they are
third party beneficiaries, and they do not cite any law explaining whether and
when this relationship is formed.  
 
The demurrer on this ground is sustained.  Leave to amend is granted if and only if
Plaintiffs can plead the existence of a duty, whether as third party
beneficiaries or otherwise, running between Shokr/TMH and Defendant.  
 
e.     Note
re: Breach of Contract
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is
for breach of written lease agreements.  Defendant
does not challenge the third cause of action as pled by Hegazy and Deif, and
therefore this cause of action will remain in the FAC regardless of the outcome
of the remainder of the pleading challenge. 

 
f.      Conversion
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is
for conversion.  While not entirely clear
from the FAC, it appears Plaintiffs allege Defendant converted (a) a $5000 security
deposit, (b) $32,500 in monthly rent, and (c) $70,000 in payments made to third
parties to improve the subject property. 

 
As Defendant correctly notes in the
demurrer, monies paid to third parties to improve the subject property were not
converted by Defendant, who never had possession of the monies.  Plaintiffs do not meaningfully address this
issue in any of the opposition papers.  Notably,
in their 10/31/23 meet and confer declaration, Plaintiffs indicate they are
willing to limit the conversion claim to the monies paid to Defendant (rent and
security deposit), and to eliminate any claim for monies paid to third parties.
 
Defendant argues he could not have
converted the deposit and rent payments because Plaintiffs chose to write those
checks.  Defendant cites no authority to
support the position that, if it is in breach of the lease agreement, the payments
made pursuant to the lease agreement cannot be the subject of a conversion
claim.  Absent such authority, the
demurrer to the remainder of the cause of action is overruled.  
 
The demurrer to the conversion
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff must re-plead the cause of action,
omitting the claim for conversion of monies paid to third parties.  
 
g.     Fraud
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
is for fraud.  Defendant demurs to the
cause of action on the ground that Plaintiffs have not pled certain aspects of
the claim with the necessary specificity, and also on the ground that it is
merely a restatement of the contract cause of action.  
 
Defendant contends Plaintiffs have
not pled any facts showing Defendant knew that the space at issue could not be
used for the purposes the parties contemplated. 
The Court agrees.  Plaintiffs
allege, at ¶2 of the FAC, that Defendant knew the premises would not be
permitted for the intended use, but they never allege how Defendant knew this
information.  In opposition to the
demurrer, Plaintiffs argue Defendant knew the leased property was an “illegal
subdivision.”  The Court, however, cannot
locate this allegation anywhere in the FAC. 
The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on the ground that facts
showing knowledge of falsity are not pled.
 
Defendant also argues the parties’
lease requires Plaintiffs to obtain permits to do all work on the property, and
argues Plaintiffs’ own FAC concedes they did not obtain the permits, but seeks
to recover, as damages, monies expended to improve the property.  It is not clear if the money spent to improve
the property was money for work that needed to be permitted but was not
permitted.  Plaintiffs must clarify by
way of an amended complaint.
 
Finally, Defendant argues the fraud
cause of action is one that sounds in contract, and is being improperly re-pled
as a tort.  It appears, however, that the
crux of the cause of action is for fraudulent inducement to enter into a contract
based on false promises.  To the extent Plaintiffs
can cure the problems detailed above, this would be sufficient to state an
independent claim for fraud, as opposed to one for breach of contract.  
 
The demurrer to the fraud cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 
Plaintiffs must add allegations showing knowledge of falsity, and must
clarify the nature of the damages sought, specifically whether they had work
done without a permit that required a permit.
 
h.     Breach
of Oral Contract
While the parties agree that a full
integration clause in a contract will not bar a well-pled fraud claim (see, for
example, Riverisland Cold Storage, Inc. v. Fresno-Madera Prod. Credit Ass’n
(2013) 55 Cal.4th 1169, 1182), there is no similar law cited by
Plaintiffs concerning their claim for breach of oral contract.  Plaintiffs have pled a claim for breach of
written contract, and the written contract contains a full integration
clause.  The breach of oral contract
claim therefore fails, and the demurrer to the claim is sustained without leave
to amend.
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages, as well as a variety of other
allegations.  
 
a.    
Punitive Damages
Defendant argues punitive damages
cannot be awarded because Defendant is defending the suit in his capacity as
Decedent’s successor-in-interest, as the actual defendant, Giang Hong, died
before suit was filed.  Defendant also
argues fraud, malice, or oppression is not pled.
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, concede
punitive damages cannot be assessed against Defendant in his capacity as
successor-in-interest, but they contend punitive damages can properly be
assessed against Defendant and his trust based on their personal conduct in
connection with the tenancy.  They fail,
however, to point to any specific allegations in the FAC that show Defendant,
in his individual capacity, committed fraud, malice, or oppression.
 
At this time, the claim of fraud is
not properly pled, and all claims sound in contract and cannot support
imposition of punitive damages.  The motion
to strike is granted on this ground.  Leave
to amend is granted if and only if Plaintiffs can allege conduct on the part of
Defendant, in his individual capacity, that support imposition of same.  
 
b.     Non-Economic
Damages
Defendant also moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for noneconomic damages, including emotional distress,
anxiety, and humiliation.  Again, at this
time, the complaint sounds only in contract. 
The motion to strike is therefore granted.  Leave to amend is granted if and only if
Plaintiffs can properly allege claims sounding in tort.  
 
c.     Accounting
Plaintiffs’ complaint requests an
accounting.  Defendant correctly notes that
the FAC fails to plead any facts showing the need for an accounting.  The opposition is entirely silent in this
regard.  The motion to strike all
references to an accounting is granted without leave to amend.
 
d.     Property
Free of Incumbrances
Plaintiffs plead that the property
at issue was to be free of incumbrances. 
Defendant contends there are no allegations in the FAC that support that
allegation.  Plaintiffs fail to address
the argument in opposition.  The motion
to strike is granted without leave to amend. 

 
e.     TMH
Cancelled
Finally, Defendant moves to strike
all references to TMH because it is a cancelled entity.  The motion to strike is moot in light of the
ruling on the demurrer, above. 
 

Conclusion

The demurrer and motion to strike
are sustained in part and granted in part as set forth fully above.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file a Second Amended
Complaint within twenty days.  Defendant
is ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.
  