 Case Number:  23LBCV00178    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
History of Discovery Motions
Defendant propounded FROGs, SROGs, RPDs, and RFAs on Plaintiff on
5/19/23.  Defendant unilaterally provided
two extensions of time to respond, with the second expiring on 8/14/23.  On 8/16/23, Defendant filed these motions to
compel.  
 
On 11/22/23, Plaintiff filed opposition to the motions.  Plaintiff’s opposition includes copies of
verified responses to all discovery, with one set of responses served on
8/16/23 and a second set of responses served on 11/15/23.  There is no explanation, in the opposition
papers, of why there are two sets of responses for each set of discovery at
issue.  
 
2.    
Substance
The motions are substantively moot because Plaintiff served responses
to the outstanding discovery on the same day that Defendant served the moving
papers.  Notably, Defendant incorrectly
sought an order compelling Plaintiff to serve responses to RFAs.  Defendant cites no authority permitting the
Court to issue this order, and the Court knows of none.  CCP §2033.280(b) permits the Court to deem
the RFAs admitted, but there is no provision permitting the Court to order the
receiving party to respond.  Notably,
Defendant incorrectly cites §2030.290(b) in this regard, but that section
relates to interrogatories, not to requests for admissions.  
 
3.    
Sanctions
Both parties seek sanctions in connection with the motion and opposition.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.  Plaintiff failed to state any reason why
responses were not served until 8/16/23, more than two months after the
original due date and after all extensions of time to respond had expired.  Plaintiff also does not explain why he did
not respond to any of the attempts to meet and confer.  There is, therefore, no reason to impose
sanctions in his favor.
 
Defendant cites the wrong code sections in support of the requests for
sanctions in the moving papers.  Defendant
cites CCP §§2033.290(d), which relates to motions to compel FURTHER responses
to RFAs, 2031.310(d), which relates to motions to compel FURTHER responses to
RPDs, and 2030.300(d), which relates to motions to compel FURTHER responses to
interrogatories.  
 
The Court does, however, find Defendant gave Plaintiff sufficient notice
of the intent to seek sanctions, and finds sanctions are appropriate in light
of Plaintiff’s complete failure to respond to meet and confer efforts and
failure to timely serve responses.  The Court
reduces the time requested to one hour to prepare each motion, one hour total
to reply, and one hour to appear at the hearing, for a total of five
hours.   The Court notes that Defendant filed separate statements
with each motion, but these were entirely unnecessary, as the motions were to
compel initial, not further, responses to discovery.  Indeed, these statements served only to cause
confusion.  The Court will not award the
time spent creating the unnecessary statements. 

 
The Court awards the time at the reasonable and requested rate of
$200/hour.  The Court therefore awards a
total of $1000 in attorneys’ fees.  The Court
also awards the requested $23/motion in filing fees, or a total of $92 in
costs.  Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Plaintiff and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Defendant, by and through its attorney of record, in the total amount of $1092,
within twenty days.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   