 Case Number:  23LBCV00996    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, James Saunders filed this action against Defendants, Sonic Automotive,
Inc., Long Beach BMW, and Robert Lee for damages arising out of the parties’
employment relationship.  Plaintiff’s
complaint includes causes of action arising out of alleged discrimination, as
well as causes of action arising out of alleged wage and hour violations.  
 
2.    
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
a.    
Relief
Sought
Defendants move to compel arbitration. 
They contend Plaintiff entered into a binding arbitration agreement, and
the agreement governs all claims set forth in this action.
 
b.    
Law
Governing Motions to Compel Arbitration
When an arbitration agreement is not self-executing (i.e., effective
without court order), a party to that agreement wishing to compel the other
party to arbitrate may petition the court for an order to that effect.  The proceeding to compel arbitration is in
essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of the contract.  The petition may be filed in lieu of filing
an answer to the complaint and the petitioning defendant has 15 days after any
denial of the petition to plead to the complaint.  (CCP §1281.7.)  The petition must allege that there is a
controversy between the parties, that there is a written agreement to
arbitrate, and that the other party has refused to do so.  (CCP §1281.2.)  The petition must also set forth the written
agreement and the arbitration provision verbatim, or a copy of the agreement
should be attached.  (CRC Rule
3.1330.)  
 
A petition to compel arbitration is a law and motion proceeding.  (CRC Rule 3.1103(a)(2).)  The petition is heard in a summary way as if
it were a motion, but notice of the hearing must be given at least 10 days in
advance.  (CCP §1290.2.)  Judicial review is limited to a determination
whether the party resisting arbitration in fact agreed to arbitrate.  (State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1301, 1304.) 
If the court determines that an arbitration agreement exists, arbitration
may not be denied on the ground that the petitioner's contentions lack
substantive merit. (CCP §1281.2(c).)
 
When a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court
itself must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its
enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  If the party opposing the
petition raises a defense to enforcement, such as fraud in the execution
voiding the agreement, that party bears the burden of producing evidence of,
and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the
defense.  The facts are to be proven by
affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence, with oral testimony taken
only in the court’s discretion.  The
trial court’s role is to resolve these factual issues, not merely to determine
whether evidence opposing the petition has sufficient substantiality.  Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Sec.
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.
 
c.    
Analysis
Defendant met their moving burden to show the parties’ relationship is governed
by a binding arbitration agreement.  Specifically,
Defendants provide the Declaration of Raquel Gonzalez, the entity defendants’
HR Manager, who attaches a copy of Plaintiff’s arbitration agreement as Exhibit
A to her declaration.  
 
Defendants properly served their motion on Plaintiff.  Any opposition to the motion was due on or before
11/22/23.  The Court has not received
opposition to the motion, and therefore Plaintiff necessarily did not meet his
burden to show any defense to enforcement of the agreement.  The motion is therefore granted.
 
This action is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration.  
 
3.     CMC
The parties are reminded there is a
CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court asks the parties to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing.  