  Case Number:  23STCV22314    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  73 5/08/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CUFT LLC v. THE ELITE FASHION GROUP,
INC. (23STCV22314)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Farah Tabibkhoei
(Dominium Law, APC)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Moses Bardavid (Law Offices of
Moses S. Bardavid)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE) AND REQUEST FOR
MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed 04/11/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel
responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), responses due
within 20 days.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record in the amount of $1,200
in attorney’s fees, payable within 20 days.
BACKGROUND
 
On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff Cuft LLC filed this action against Defendant The Elite
Fashion Group, Inc.
 
On December
7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action
for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) intentional
misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) violation of California’s
Unfair Competition Law, and (6) unjust enrichment. 
 
The FAC
alleges the following. Plaintiff, a fashion apparel company, contracted with
Defendant to manufacture women’s underwear using 100% hemp fabric, and provide
the fabric to Plaintiff to test the material. Defendant made false promises and
representations regarding the garments’ material and composition, stating it
would make the material available for independent testing, and deliver the
product within weeks to induce Plaintiff to pay Defendant tens of thousands of
dollars. Plaintiff justifiably relied and paid Defendant $90,000. Defendant
failed to manufacture the women’s undergarments according to Plaintiff’s
specifications or provide the fabric for testing, concealed that the samples
were defective, and failed to deliver the product at all or return the monies
paid.
On April 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents (Set One) and Request for Monetary Sanctions, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff served her first set of Requests for Production on January 20,
2024.
·      
Defendant did not respond substantively to Plaintiff’s requests.
Defendant asserted boilerplate objections to all of Plaintiff’s discovery
requests. Defendant also refuses to answer any discovery because it claims
discovery was served before service of the complaint.
·      
However, Plaintiff argues the Complaint and summons was personally
served on Defendant on September 24, 2023, more than three months before
Plaintiff’s Request for Production (“RFPs”) were served on Defendant, through
its counsel.
·      
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s objections lack merit and
sanctions in the amount of $1,200 are warranted.
Defendant
did not file an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. Plaintiff did not file a
reply.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
If the response to an RFP includes an objection
to the demand in part, it must also include a statement of compliance or
noncompliance. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the
response must (1) identify the particular document that falls within the
category of the request to which the objection is being made, and (2) expressly
set forth the extent of, and specific ground for, the objection. (Id.,
subd. (b).)¿A propounding party may move for an order compelling further
response to a request for production if it decides that “an objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(a).) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer
 
A motion to
compel further discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2033.290, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on March 25, 2024, the parties scheduled a
meet and confer call and on March 29, 2024, counsel for both parties met and
conferred by phone regarding Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s discovery. (Tabibkhoei
Decl. ¶ 7.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the
preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure sections
2030.300, subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
C.     Requests for
Production of Documents
 
Plaintiff represents
that the subject RFPs seek the following: “(1) communications with, and documents pertaining to, Plaintiff;
(2) agreements between the parties including samples and deliverables
thereunder; (3) payments, invoices and purchase orders Defendant received from
Plaintiff; (4) fabrics, dyes and materials used to manufacture garments for Plaintiff;
(5) instructions/specifications for the garments and packaging; (6) documents
regarding the design, manufacture and development of the garments; (7)
timelines/schedules for development and production of the garments; (8)
policies, procedures, and processes for quality control pertaining to the
production of garments including testing and inspection of apparel and
packaging; (9) documents sufficient to identify all persons with whom Defendant
communicated with regarding the garments; and (10) photos of garments, material
used, and packaging.” (Motion, pp. 2-3.) 
Defendant
objected to each of the subject RFPs on the bases that: “(1) the discovery was served before the complaint was served;
(2) service was not appropriate because Defendant’s counsel had not formally
“appeared”; (3) the items are not reasonably particularized; (4) the discovery
is burdensome, overly broad, and seeks confidential, trade secrets, and/or
irrelevant information; and (5) the requests seek privileged communications.” (Motion,
p. 3.)
 
The burden
rests with the objecting party to justify the objection. (Coy v. Superior
Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221.) Here, as
Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion, the Court finds that it has
failed to meet its burden to justify its objections to Plaintiff’s discovery
requests. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff attaches a
copy of the Proof of Service of the Summons and Complaint which indicates it
was personally
served on Defendant on September 24, 2023. (Motion, Tabibkhoei
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.)
 
CCP § 2031.020(b) states: “A plaintiff may make a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at
any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by,
the party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first.”
 
Plaintiff served
her first set of Requests for Production on January 20, 2024. Therefore, the Court
does not find Plaintiff failed to comply with CCP §
2031.020(b) since Plaintiff served its production demands more than 10 days
after service of the summons. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
compel responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One).
 
D.    
Request for Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff requests $1,200 in attorney’s fees as
monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record. Plaintiff’s counsel’s
hourly rate is $400 per hour and Defendant seeks to recover three hours for preparing
this motion. (Tabibkhoei Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)
The Court finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate and
number of hours Plaintiff seeks to recover is reasonable. 
The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record in the amount of
$1,200 in attorney’s fees. The Court orders Defendant and its counsel of record
to pay $1,200 to Plaintiff, through its counsel of record, within 20 days of
the date of this ruling.
CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Requests for Production of
Documents (Set One) and Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. 

 
 