 Case Number:  23STCV30004    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Alexandra Pepin and Ryan Christopher
Noel filed this action against Defendants Patrick
Harrington Thompson (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for negligence. 
On
February 9, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike to be heard on March 27,
2024. On March 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On March 20, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 6, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to strike the request for punitive damages. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.      Motion
to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to
strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant
to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in
the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
B.       Punitive
damages 
          Civil Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. 
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (b), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.      The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
On or about March 19, 2023, Defendant’s vehicle
collided with Plaintiffs’ e-scooter, which was on Santa Monica Boulevard on the
right shoulder of the number two lane reserved for bicycles at or near the
intersection with Kenmore Avenue in Los Angeles.  The collision injured Plaintiffs.  Even though he knew Plaintiffs were injured, Defendant
fled the scene without identifying himself.  Defendant acted intentionally, oppressively,
and maliciously, and with conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights and safety,
justifying the imposition of punitive damages. 
The complaint’s prayer includes a request for punitive
damages. 
B.       Defendant’s
motion to strike 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts that support the request for punitive
damages because the complaint does not explain how Defendant increased
Plaintiffs’ damages by fleeing from the scene. 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255
(Clauson).)  “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
“[A]
defendant's dissimilar acts, independent from the acts upon which liability was
premised, may not serve as the basis for punitive damages. A defendant should
be punished for the conduct that harmed the plaintiff, not for being an
unsavory individual or business.” (Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
1150, 1176 (Butte Fire Cases), quoting State Farm Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Campbell (2003) 538 U.S. 408, 422; see Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp.
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 930 [“State Farm’s proscription of dissimilar
conduct to prove the amount of a punitive damages award also applies to
evidence offered to prove that the defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or
oppression and is therefore subject to such an award”].) 
In Brooks
v. E. J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669 (Brooks), the
Supreme Court observed that “[o]ne who
negligently injures another and renders him helpless is bound to use reasonable
care to prevent any further harm which the actor realizes or should realize
threatens the injured person.”  (Brooks,
supra, 40 Cal.2d at pp. 678-679.) 
There, “[the driver’s] action in driving on without stopping after the
accident may reasonably be regarded as a part of the operation and control of
the vehicle, and under the allegations of the complaint plaintiffs were
entitled to prove the direct consequences of his conduct in driving on without
stopping, namely, his failure to render aid or do anything to prevent further
injury to [the decedent].”  (Id.
at p. 680.)  The amended complaint
alleged that, because the driver did not stop and render aid, the decedent was
struck and run over by another vehicle and died.  (Id. at p. 681.) 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s negligence caused a collision in which they
suffered injuries.  Plaintiffs have not
alleged that they suffered injuries as the result of Defendant’s action in
fleeing the scene.  As pleaded, therefore,
the complaint does not support a claim for punitive damages. 
The
Court grants the motion to strike with 30 days leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Patrick Harrington Thompson’s motion to strike the
punitive damage claim from the complaint filed by Plaintiffs Alexandra Pepin and Ryan Christopher Noel with 30 days
leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.