 Case Number:  23CMCV01624    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01624
 Plenitude Holdings, LLC v. County of Los Angeles 
Thursday,
 February 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING
IN PART AND OVERRULING IN PART DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       This
action arises from the County of Los Angeles’ alleged breach of a 2021 Ground Lease
agreement (“Ground Lease”) and a 2022 Amendment, wherein Plaintiff agreed to redevelop
real property into a multi-use, multi-tenant, sports, and entertainment
complex. Plaintiff alleges that the County breached its obligation to consider
in good faith Plaintiff’s second request for a six-month extension to commence
construction of the Redevelopment Plan (“Plan”) and Plaintiff’s proposal to
approach the redevelopment in phases. Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of
two separate provisions of the ground lease and breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       The
County argues all claims fail to state a cause of action because as a matter of
law, the clear language of the Ground Lease authorized the County to deny
Plaintiff’s request for an additional extension; the County did not owe a duty
to consider Plaintiff’s request in good faith, and its denial of both requests was
not unreasonable. 
       Plaintiff
argues that the County’s preferred interpretation of the contract is not the
only reasonable one. Plaintiff has alleged County’s unreasonable conduct in
denying Plaintiff’s reasonable requests resulting in a breach of the implied covenant.

       In
reply, the County argues that the 2022 Amendment did not require it to grant
Plaintiff’s request for a second extension, as the lease language is
permissive, not mandatory. Moreover, Plentitude attempted to modify the Redevelopment
Plan, which the County had no contractual duty to consider. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) In testing the complaint’s sufficiency, the court must
assume the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations as well as facts
that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded facts. The court
may also consider matters properly subject to judicial notice. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)
       The court may not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Plaintiff is required to allege facts sufficient to establish every
element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.)
       Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity that is
sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  Whether the
Plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Demurrer
to the first cause of action for breach of contract is SUSTAINED. 
       A claim for breach of contract is well
stated if "the alleged agreement is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the
meaning ascribed to it in the complaint.” (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202
Cal.App.4th 1342, 1384.) The
court accepts the construction of the contract as alleged by Plaintiff if it is
a “reasonable interpretation” of the contract. (Id.) Where the
contract is clear and explicit, the parties’ intent is determined solely by
reference to the language of the agreement, and the words are to be understood
in its ordinary and popular sense. (Civ. Code, §§  1638, 1639.)
       Plaintiff alleges that it entered into a
contract with the County on September 14, 2021, granting Plaintiff the right to
redevelop the south parcel of the real property at issue. (Complaint, ¶ 44.) Pursuant
to a written amendment in 2022, the County agreed to give Plaintiff six months
to begin redevelopment and authorized the Director of the Department of Parks
and Recreation (“Director”) to grant an additional six-month extension for a $100,000
fee. (Complaint, ¶ 48.) The 2022 Amendment provided that the additional extension
“may be approved” by the Director in writing. (Complaint, ¶ 49; Ground Lease, §
5.1.5.2.) 
       Plaintiff sought an additional extension
pursuant to that section, which the County subsequently denied citing
Plaintiff’s “unequivocal statements that it is impossible for Plenitude to
proceed with the development and construction of the Project pursuant to the
lease agreement.” (Complaint, ¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that the County breached
section 5.1.5.2. of the September 2022 Amendment, by denying Plaintiff’s timely
request for an additional extension with the agreement to pay the required
amount. (Complaint, ¶ 57, Ex. B, pdf p. 38.)
       Plaintiff contends that section 5.1.5.2 delegated
approval of an additional extension to the Director. Plaintiff contends it was
entitled to the additional time so long as it made the request in writing 45
days before the date to commence construction. (Opp. 9:15-18.) The County acted
in bad faith in rejecting Plaintiff’s proposal for a “phased construction.”
       Plaintiff’s interpretation of the
provision is not supported by the provision’s plain language, which states the
preconditions to an additional extension: the Director’s approval at the
Director’s discretion alone (without resort to the Board of Supervisors) and if
approved, payment of the extension fee within 10 days. Nothing in the clear
language of the provision suggests that the Director was required to approve
Plaintiff’s request so long as it was made in writing and 45 days before
commencement of construction. (Complaint, ¶ 49.) 
B.     
Demurrer
to the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
is OVERRULED.
       This claim is based on the
County’s alleged refusal to allow Plaintiff to develop and construct the
project in phases, instead of at one time, as contemplated by the Ground Lease
given the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on market conditions. (Complaint, ¶ 66.)
Plaintiff alleges that the County became “unreasonably inflexible” and rejected
the requested phased construction, which justified County’s conduct in prematurely
triggering a default. (Complaint, ¶ 68.)
       The County argues it did not owe a duty
to renegotiate and amend the scheduled construction as a matter of law in the
first instance; therefore, an implied obligation to act in good faith, based on
an express provision that does not exist, is fatal to the claim. (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032 ["There is no obligation to deal
fairly or in good faith absent an existing contract.”].) 
       The implied covenant is read into the
agreement to protect “express covenants or promises of the contract.” (Id. at 1031.) In Racine, a concessionaire occupying premises
pursuant to a written contract with the California Department of Parks and
Recreation, negotiated with the Department to permit expanded operations. (Id. at 1028). The agreement provided that the parties
may by mutual consent, agree to modifications thereof or additions in writing.[1]
(Id. at 1030-31.) The parties thereafter entered into lengthy
negotiations regarding the terms of the concessionaire’s expansion proposal,
which the Department subsequently denied. (Id. at 1030.)  The
plaintiff argued that the denial breached the implied covenant. (Id.) The
court held that the contract did not include an express provision requiring the
Department to modify the contract, and that commencing negotiations did not
impose a duty to act in good faith. (Id. at 1034.)
       Here,
Plaintiff argues that it never
alleged that the County had a duty to renegotiate the lease. (Opp. 14:28.) Rather,
as Plaintiff observes, the issue is whether the County was obligated to
consider in good faith, Plaintiff’s proposal to complete construction in
phases. The Ground Lease required Plaintiff to complete construction pursuant
to a schedule. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. A, Lease, § 5.4.6.) Plaintiff was required
to achieve “substantial completion of a significant portion of the
redevelopment work not later than the third anniversary of the effective date.”
(Id. at
5.1.5.)  The Redevelopment Plan included the demolition
of existing improvements and construction of a sports complex, recreational
experience, golfing range, and club house among other improvements. (Id. at p. 43, ¶ 5.1.1.)
       The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was
“evaluating alternatives for phasing of the project to facilitate a “smaller
capitalization of the initial phase of development.” (Complaint, ¶ Ex. C.) The
“initial phase” would provide recreational and community benefits and create
the master infrastructure, which would support subsequent phases of
development. (Id.)  
       Plaintiff argues that the Ground Lease
precludes the Director from unreasonably withholding, conditioning, or
delaying, its approval of any “alterations” which the lessee “may be required or
desire to make.” (Ex. A, p. 46: ¶¶ 5.2, 5.3.) “Alterations” are defined as “any
material alterations or modifications to the improvements” or “the construction
of any new improvements. The Redevelopment Work shall be considered to be
alterations.” (RJN, Ex. A, p. 46, ¶ 5.2.) Therefore, contrary to Racine, Plaintiff alleges an express provision of the contract imposing a
duty on the County to act in good faith in considering Plaintiff’s proposed
alteration as defined by the Ground Lease in ¶¶ 5.2 and 5.3.
       Defendant contends in reply that “Alterations”
was directed to the Director’s authority to prove schematic plans for each
improvement included in the Redevelopment Work and did not require the Director
to consider a proposal to move, remove, or delay construction of the project.
(Reply, 9:19 – 10:1.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff is alleging an amendment
of the lease agreement as opposed to considering a change over which the County
had discretion to consider. 
       The County’s distinction between “lease amendment”
and a “change” is not evident. The proposed phased construction would
necessarily amend the terms of the Ground Lease as it would modify the schedule
and scope of the work as well as the contemplated dates for completion of certain
milestones. 
       Additionally, the County narrowly
construes the meaning of “alterations.” A condition precedent to the
construction of alterations requiring consent also required the Lessee to
submit to the Director the plans, specifications, and other materials described
elsewhere for those alterations. (RJN Ex. A, p. 46, ¶ 5.3.) Submission of
“schematics” was a condition precedent to construction. (Id.) “Alterations” are broadly defined as “The Redevelopment Work,” and
“all of the terms and provisions” that follow “shall also be applicable to the
Redevelopment Work and Subsequent Renovations.” (Id. ¶
5.2.) The express contractual
provisions precluded the County from unreasonably withholding approval of these
“alterations.” (Id.at 5.3.) 
C.     
Demurrer
to the second cause of action for breach of the contractual duty of reasonableness,
good faith, and fair dealing under Section 17.6 of the Ground Lease is
OVERRULED.
       This claim arises from the
County’s alleged unreasonable refusal to grant Plaintiff an additional six-month
extension and termination of the lease on grounds Plaintiff failed to commence
construction within the required time period. (Complaint, ¶ 61.). Section 17.6
of the Ground Lease provides for a general reasonableness standard:
“Except where a different standard or an
express response period is specifically provided herein, whenever the consent
or approval of County or Lessee is required under this Lease, such consent or
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, and
whenever this Lease grants County or Lessee the right to take action, exercise
discretion, establish rules and regulations or make allocations or other
determinations, County and Lessee shall act reasonably and in good faith. These
provisions shall only apply to County acting in its proprietary capacity.” (Defendant’s
RJN, Ex. A, p. 111.)
       The 2022 Amendment to the
Ground Lease permitted Plaintiff to request an additional extension to the
project completion which “may be approved by the Director in writing.”
(Complaint, Ex. B, ¶2.) Read as a whole, these provisions support Plaintiff’s construction
that because approval of an additional extension was required, Defendant had a
duty to exercise its discretion in good faith. 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, demurrer
to the first cause of action for breach of contract is SUSTAINED. Demurrer to
the second and third causes of action are OVERRULED. Plaintiff is permitted 10
days leave to amend the first cause of action. 
 
 
       
 


