  Case Number:  22CMCV00064    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00064
 Compton Unified School District v. Marvin Liddell, et al.
Thursday,
 February 22, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The first amended complaint (“FAC”)
alleges Defendant, Marvin Liddell, previously employed by Plaintiff, Compton
Unified School District (“District”), as an Assistant Director of Maintenance
(“AD Liddell”) violated conflict-of-interest laws by directing public contracts
to Defendants, James Burnett doing business as BP Builders (collectively
“Burnett”). AD Liddell allegedly had had a financial interest in BP Builders,
presenting a conflict interest with respect to those contracts AD Liddell
awarded to BP Builders. Plaintiff alleges claims for various violations of
conflict-of-interest laws and for declaratory relief against Burnett dba BP
Builders
       On July 12, 2023, the clerk entered
default against Defendant AD Liddell. 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       The District argues it is entitled to
adjudication of the claims alleged against Burnett on grounds Burnett’s
contracts were solicited, negotiated, and approved by AD Liddell, who was a
partner with Burnett in Liddell Development and Construction, a Partnership
(“LDCP.”) Because of this conflict-in-interest, the contracts are void. The
District argues it is entitled to an order requiring Burnett to disgorge any
profits made from the void contracts and to make restitution in the sum of
$608,470.31. 
       In opposition, Burnett argues that for
the District to prevail, the District must show that the contracts were made by
a governmental officer or employee in their official capacity and that the
person had a cognizable financial interest in the contracts. The motion should
be denied because triable issues of fact remain. 
       In reply, the District argues that Liddell’s
declaration in support of the opposition should be stricken because the court
entered default against him. The opposition improperly relies on Liddell’s
declaration. The District has otherwise satisfied all statutory obligations to warrant
voiding the contract and requiring Liddell to provide restitution and
disgorgement. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A party can move for summary adjudication
“as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, [or] that there is no merit to a
claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd.
(f)(1).) A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
       The court applies the three-step
analysis to motions for summary judgment or adjudication: (1) identify the
issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine whether the moving party
established facts which negate the opponents’ claim, (3) if the moving party
meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden shifts, determine
whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with admissible
evidence. (Torres v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
The undisputed facts
       Since
approximately 2012, Burnett, doing business as BP Builders, was selected as a
contractor for the District to perform maintenance and repair work (UF 2.) On
August 24, 2015, AD Liddell was appointed as the District’s Assistant Director
of Maintenance. On April 4, 2018, AD Liddell formed LDCP holding License No.
1037711 (UF 7.)  Burnett was a qualifying
partner in LDCP with a 10 percent interest (UD 8.) Burnett used his
contractor’s license to allow an unlicensed contractor, AD Liddell, to perform
work as a contractor under LDCP (UF 10). Burnett does not dispute that he was a
co-signatory on LDCP’s business bank account (UF 11.) 
       There
is no dispute that LDCP was paid $1,000 on December 6, 2019, from “Ms.
Washington;” $1,000 from Blue Sky Escrow, Inc. for a roofing project on
December 23, 2019; another $11,200 from Blue Sky Escrow, Inc. as payment for
the roofing project; and on August 10, 2020, Burnett transferred $500 from Burnett’s
business bank account to LDCP’s business bank account (UF 16, 17, 18.) 
 
 
B.     
The alleged statutory violations
       All
three causes of action are based on the allegation that AD Liddell’s conduct
violated Gov Code section 1090 which bars county officers or employees from
having financial interests in any contract made by them in their official
capacity, nor can they be purchasers at any sale or vendors at any purchase
made them in their official capacity. (Gov.
Code, § 1090.) Contracts and purchase orders and approval
of payment made in violation of section 1090 may be avoided at the request of
any party other than the financially interested official (Gov.
Code, § 1092.) Payments
made by a public entity pursuant to a contract tainted by a conflict must be refunded
to the public entity. (Id.) 
       Thus,
in determining whether a violation of the conflict-of-interest statute has
occurred, “a court must identify (1) whether the defendant government officials
or employees (AD Liddell) participated in the making of a contract in their official
capacities and (2) whether the defendants had a cognizable financial interest
in that contract.” (People
v. Dawson (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 583, 590. Any
exceptions for remote or minimal interests must be raised as an affirmative
defense. (Id.) 
C.     
The evidence
1)     
District’s request for judicial notice
       The
Court grants the District’s request for judicial notice of court records filed
in this action such as the complaint, Burnett’s answer, the notice of entry of
default against AD Liddell, and the order granting Plaintiff leave to amend to
correct a mistake in the name and designation of Defendants. (Evid. Code, §
452(d).) The Court also grants the District’s request for judicial notice of the
Certification of Records of the Contractors State License Board for Shelby
Development and LDCP. (Evid. Code, § 452(c). 
2)     
Plaintiff’s objections to the
declaration of AD Liddell
       The
District argues that as a defendant in default, AD Liddell is “out of court”
and may not further participate in this litigation without making a motion to
vacate the default against him. The District contends that AD Liddell’s
declaration is contrary to his sworn testimony, which precludes his declaration
as evidence in opposition to the motion.  
       The
District cites Devlin
v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155
Cal.App.3d 381 which is inapposite. The plaintiffs in that
action obtained default against Kearney Mesa, a car dealer, for fraudulent
misrepresentation. The trial court correctly precluded Kearney Mesa from
participating in further proceedings to contest the default judgment against
it, given it was in default.  A defaulting
defendant is not entitled to take any further steps in the cause affecting
plaintiff's right of action and “would not be heard for the purpose of
interposing any denial or affirmative defense.” (Devlin
at 385–386). Here, AD Liddell is participating
as a witness in the action against Burnett and is not asserting his own denials
or affirmative defenses.
       The
District’s reliance on Harbour
Vista, LLC v. HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 1496 is similarly misplaced. The action arose from
Harbour Vista’s quiet title action to establish its ownership interest in a
condominium that it purchased at a foreclosure sale. (Harbour Vista at
1500.) Harbour Vista obtained default against HSBC Mortgage Services who failed
to answer the complaint. (Id.) The trial court erroneously precluded
HSBC from participating in the default prove-up hearing because the quiet title
statute required the court  "in
all cases [to] require evidence of plaintiff's title and hear such
evidence as may be offered respecting the claims of any of the defendants,
other than claims the validity of which is admitted by the plaintiff in the
complaint. (Harbour
Vista at 1501–1502.) Thus, HSBC was statutorily permitted to
participate at the prove-up hearing although it was in default. (Harbour
Vista at 1504.) 
       Finally,
Sass
v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861 on
which the District also relies affirms the general proposition that in an
ordinary default, a defaulting defendant has no right to participate in the
judgment hearing. (Sass
v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 882.) The
case does not bear on AD Liddell’s capacity to serve as a witness in Burnett’s defense
of claims asserted by the District. Accordingly, the District’s objection to AD
Liddell’s declaration as a whole is OVERRULED. 
       While
the District correctly argues that a witness may not submit a declaration
contrary to sworn deposition testimony, the District did not identify any
deposition testimony by AD Liddell that contradicted his declaration.  (D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20).
       The
District is generally correct that that a defaulting defendant is deemed to
have admitted the allegations in the complaint, however, more specifically, “the
defendant who fails to answer admits only facts which are well pleaded.” (Vasey
v. California Dance Co. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 742, 749.)
The cases on which the District relies do not broadly preclude AD Liddell’s
evidentiary testimony that is not well pleaded in the complaint. The District
did not identify specific material allegations presumably admitted that
contradict AD Liddell’s declaration.
#1. Overruled.
AD Liddell’s knowledge of Burnett’s background is supported by his assertion
that he has known Burnett since high school. 
#2-5. Overruled. AD Liddell’s knowledge of Nathan
Holt’s (“Chief Holt”) changes in department procedure once he became the Chief
Facilities Officer in September 2017 and Chief Holt’s selection of Burnett as
one of the vendors assigned to an Open Purchase Order for construction is
supported by adequate foundation as this occurred during AD Liddell’s tenure.
He was appointed in 2015. 
#6. Sustained. What Chief Holt told AD Liddell
is hearsay.
#7- 18. Overruled. AD Liddell’s familiarity
with the process regarding the payment of invoices, necessary approvals, selection
of vendors, and his lack of authority to approve invoices, are supported by
adequate foundation given his role as Assistant Director. AD Liddell affirms
that the job description submitted by the District as Ex. 3 supports his
familiarity with the methods and procedures of the maintenance program,
including “initiating requisitions” and placing orders in accordance with
department policy. (Notably, the job description does not expressly or
explicitly address AD Liddell’s authority (or lack thereof) to approve invoices
for payment, but rather to plan, schedule, coordinate, and control financial
management “within authorized budget allocations.” Plaintiff’s Evidence,
Exhibit 3.)
#19-32. Overruled. AD Liddell’s denials of the
assertions made by Chief Holt are adequately supported by his job description. 
3)     
The District’s objections to the
declaration of James Burnett
#1-2. Overruled. Burnett incorporated Shelby
Development Company on February 25, 2015, and shares were issued only to him
and his wife. He has personal knowledge of who had a financial interest in his
own company.
#3. Sustained. Hearsay as to what AD Liddell
told him. 
#4, 5, 6. (Not identified)
#7, 11. Overruled. Burnett can testify as to
the limits of his awareness.
#8-9. Sustained. Hearsay and no foundation for
Burnett’s knowledge of the work AD Liddell performed under Liddell
Development’s contractor’s license, or AD Liddell’s use of the company checking
account.  
#10. Sustained. Lacks foundation for Burnett’s
knowledge of Liddell’s involvement in the process for approving BP as a
COVID-19 Sanitizer. He avers he is not aware of the internal processes that
occur in connection with processing and paying his invoices. (Burnett decl. ¶
14.)
#12, 15, 17 Sustained. Lacks foundation for
Burnett’s knowledge disputing Chief Holt’s assertions. He avers he is not aware
of the District’s internal payment process. He states he was not a District
employee. 
#13-14, 16. Overruled. Burnett states his
recollection of being assigned a job by Chief Holt and AD Liddell’s leave of
absence. 
       The
relevance of Shelby’s involvement in Burnett’s company, which was authorized to
conduct business in California as of November 30, 2017, is unclear. (Burnett
Declaration, ¶ 31.) AD Liddell’s involvement as a named officer is irrelevant
unless Liddell directed contracts to Shelby, which is not a material fact. (Facts
12-13.) 
       The
District has not explained the relevance of roof repair work done by AD
Liddell’s company, LDCP, for Lakeyshua Washington’s roof. (Fact 13-17.) Ms.
Washington’s connection with the District, or whether AD Liddell directed that
particular contract as a representative of the District to LDCP or Burnett, is
not evident. Burnett testified that she was a principal at Compton Unified
School District. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 55, 244:10-14.) This was Lidell’s “insurance
job.” Burnett had nothing to do with that job. (Id. 245:18-20.) 
       Burnett’s
transfer of $500 from BP Builder’s business account to LDCP’s business account or
the payment’s relationship with the District is not clearly relevant. 
       The
District asserts that AD Liddell authorized District maintenance repairs by
Burnett. (Fact 20.) This fact appears to be material to the District’s allegations;
however, the assertion is flatly denied by Burnett. The assertion that AD
Liddell requested and obtained the issuance of an open purchase order for
carpentry repairs throughout the district for work to be performed by Burnett
in the amount of $75,000 is not supported. The invoices supplied by the
District are directed to BP Builders and identifies “Mr. Martin Liddell CUSD”
in the “customer information;” however, this does not establish that the work
was negotiated, approved, solicited, negotiated, and authorized by AD Liddell.
His declaration denies he had any authority to authorize payments. (Plaintiff’s
Evidence, Ex. 54.) The evidence in support of Facts 21- 51, does not establish
that AD Liddell engaged in such conduct. 
 
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the numerous material issues of fact that remain in dispute, Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.  Plaintiff has not met its burden of
establishing it is entitled to adjudication of the issues that Burnett violated
conflicts-of-interest provisions and is required to disgorge or pay
restitution. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) 
 
 
       
       