 Case Number:  23STCP00613    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
7-11-24 c/f 6-6-24 c/f 4-10-24
Case
# 23STCP00613
Trial
Dates: N/A
 
PETITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Petitioner, David Kartch
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Respondents, David Gutierrez, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Hearing
on Motion for Issuance of Order Directing the Redaction of Personal Information
from Public Indexes and Databases
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 28, 2023, David Kartch filed a petition for removal of personal
information from public indexes and databases due to suspicion of potential
identity theft. Kartch specifically represents that a business entity
identified as DAGUT Group Inc., and agent for service David Gutierrez unlawfully
uses Kartch’s personal address in its corporate registration documents with the
California Secretary of State. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Petitioner David Kartch moves for relief pursuant to Civil
Code section 1798.201: 
 
“A person
who has learned or reasonably suspects that his or her personal identifying
information has been used unlawfully, as described in subdivision (a) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, in a business entity filing, and has initiated
a law enforcement investigation in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section
530.6 of the Penal Code, may petition the superior court in the county in which
the person resides for an order, which may be granted ex parte, directing the
alleged perpetrator of the act described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, if known, and the person using the personal
identifying information in the business entity filing to appear at a hearing
before the court and show cause for both of the following:
(a) Why
the personal identifying information should not be labeled to show the
information is impersonated and does not reflect the person's identity.
(b) Why
the personal identifying information should be associated with the business
entity.”
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1798.201.)
 
“(a) A
petition filed pursuant to Section 1798.201 shall be heard and determined
based on declarations, affidavits, police reports, or other material, relevant,
and reliable information submitted by the parties or ordered to be made part of
the record by the court.
(b) If
the court determines the petition is meritorious and there is no reasonable
cause to believe that the victim's personal identifying information has been
used lawfully in the business entity filing, the court shall make a finding
that the victim's personal identifying information has been used unlawfully in
the business entity filing and shall issue an order certifying this
determination.
(c) Upon
making a determination pursuant to subdivision (b), the court shall do the
following:
(1) Order
the name and associated personal identifying information in the business entity
filing to be redacted or labeled to show that the data is impersonated and does
not reflect the victim's identity.
(2) Order
the data to be removed from publicly accessible electronic indexes and
databases.
(d) A
determination made pursuant to subdivision (b) may be vacated at any time if
the petition or any information submitted in support of the petition is found
to contain any material misrepresentation or was obtained by fraud.
(e) The
Judicial Council shall develop a form for issuing an order of determination
pursuant to this section.
(f) An
order issued pursuant to subdivision (c) shall be filed with the Secretary of
State.”
 
Civ.
Code, § 1798.202
 
The subject motion constitutes a renewed motion. On October
20, 2023, the court considered the prior motion and wrote in relevant part:
 
“Based on the wording of that code section, it appears that
DAGUT Group Inc. is entitled to notice of the hearing and an opportunity to
appear at the hearing on this motion to explain the use of the address. There
is no indication from the paperwork filed by Mr. Kartch that DAGUT Group Inc.
has been served. Before the Court can hear this motion and grant the requested
relief, Mr. Kartch must serve DAGUT Group Inc. 
 
“The Court recognizes that part of the problem is that
Petitioner does not presently know how to serve the person, David Gutierrez,
who appears to have filed the Article of Incorporation that included his
address. Nonetheless, before this Court may adjudicate the matter, the other
parties to be impacted should be given the right to participate in this
proceeding. Further, the showing by Petitioner at this time does not establish
that any personal identifying information about Petitioner has been used. 
...
“The Court will not rule on this motion at this time due to
the failure of Petitioner to serve the person or entity that will be impacted
by the requested order. The Motion is DENIED without prejudice.”
 
On April 4, 2024, the court considered the renewed motion,
whereby Kartch explained efforts to effect service on David Gutierrez,
purported agent for DAGUT Group, Inc., but the inability to confirm the
identity of the subject David Gutierrez. The court accepted the basis of the
application, but deferred consideration of the application in order to allow
Petitioner to establish compliance with due process requirements. Given the
inability to locate Gutierrez or any other unique identifying information
regarding DAGUT Group Inc., the court directed Petitioner to seek leave for
service by publication.
 
On April 23, 2024, the court granted Petitioner for leave
to complete service by publication with the Metropolitan News. A minimum of
four (4) weeks circulation is required before service is deemed complete. (Gov.
Code, § 6064.) On May 28, 2024, Petitioner filed a proof of publication on May
3, 10, 17, and 24, 2024. The court finds compliance with the order for
publication.
 
The court now considers the standard for relief under the
two Penal Code sections cited in Civil Code section 1798.202.
 
“Every person who willfully
obtains personal identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b) of
Section 530.55, of another person, and uses that information for any unlawful
purpose, including to obtain, or attempt to obtain, credit, goods, services,
real property, or medical information without the consent of that person, is
guilty of a public offense, and upon conviction therefor, shall be punished by
a fine, by imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed one year, or by both a
fine and imprisonment, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170.” (Pen. Code, § 530.5, subd. (a).) 
 
“(a) A
person who has learned or reasonably suspects that his or her personal
identifying information has been unlawfully used by another, as described in
subdivision (a) of Section 530.5, may initiate a law enforcement investigation
by contacting the local law enforcement agency that has jurisdiction over his
or her actual residence ... which shall take a police report of the matter, provide
the complainant with a copy of that report, and begin an investigation of the
facts. ...
(b) A
person who reasonably believes that he or she is the victim of identity theft
may petition a court, ... for an expedited judicial determination of his or her
factual innocence, where the perpetrator of the identity theft was arrested
for, cited for, or convicted of a crime under the victim's identity, or where a
criminal complaint has been filed against the perpetrator in the victim's name,
or where the victim's identity has been mistakenly associated with a record of
criminal conviction. Any judicial determination of factual innocence made
pursuant to this section may be heard and determined upon declarations,
affidavits, police reports, or other material, relevant, and reliable
information submitted by the parties or ordered to be part of the record by the
court. Where the court determines that the petition or motion is meritorious
and that there is no reasonable cause to believe that the victim committed the
offense for which the perpetrator of the identity theft was arrested, cited,
convicted, or subject to a criminal complaint in the victim's name, or that the
victim's identity has been mistakenly associated with a record of criminal
conviction, the court shall find the victim factually innocent of that offense.
If the victim is found factually innocent, the court shall issue an order
certifying this determination.
(c) After
a court has issued a determination of factual innocence pursuant to this
section, the court may order the name and associated personal identifying
information contained in court records, files, and indexes accessible by the
public deleted, sealed, or labeled to show that the data is impersonated and
does not reflect the defendant's identity.
(d) A
court that has issued a determination of factual innocence pursuant to this
section may at any time vacate that determination if the petition, or any
information submitted in support of the petition, is found to contain any
material misrepresentation or fraud. ...” 
 
(Pen.
Code, § 530.6.)
 
The petition contains a copy of the police report filed
with the Los Angeles Police Department. [Petition, Ex. 3.] In the April 10,
2024, order, the court specifically requested Petitioner present any supplemental
evidence regarding unlawful use beyond the simple existence of the registration
with Petitioner’s address itself in order to allow the court to make findings in
compliance with the statutory requirements, thereby allowing submission of an
order to the California Secretary of State. 
 
Following proof of publication, Petitioner
submitted a new supplemental brief regarding the basis for relief based on
standard that the false registration in and of itself constitutes the wrongful
act, and Petitioner should not have to wait for an actual (attempted) criminal
act to occur in order to seek protection. The supplemental brief lacks any
updated changes to potential activities of the third party, including evidence
of actual unlawful use under the definition of Penal Code section 530.5. The
court therefore assumes no further conduct occurred.
 
The logic of Petitioner’s position
renders understandable sympathy. Petitioner reasonably falls into a position of
a potential victim seeking proactive rather than reactive relief. Still, the
court must adhere to the standard set by the legislature, which requires an
actual finding of unlawful conduct—conduct above and beyond the mere
registration of the name (e.g. attempting to or obtaining “credit, goods,
services, real property, or medical information without the consent of that
person, is guilty of a public offense. The public policy impacts in balancing
due process rights and privacy inevitably create unintended exceptions. 
 
The court therefore finds no basis
for issuing an order under the subject statute, and instead directs petitioner
to take protective measures with the credit reporting agencies and/or
California Secretary of State. The court specifically refers to the communications
from the California Attorney General.  In
the February 2, 2023, letter from the California Attorney General, the public
inquiry unit offered advice on ways to protect and monitor potential activity,
including contact with credit reporting agencies, and potential filings with
the California Secretary of State. [Petition, Ex. 4.] 
 
 “(a) A consumer may elect to place a security
alert in his or her credit report by making a request in writing or by
telephone to a consumer credit reporting agency. ‘Security alert’ means a
notice placed in a consumer's credit report, at the request of the consumer,
that notifies a recipient of the credit report that the consumer's identity may
have been used without the consumer's consent to fraudulently obtain goods or
services in the consumer's name.” (Civ. Code, § 1785.11.1.) The section also
provides resources for monitoring Petitioner’s information as well. (Civ. Code,
§ 1785.11.1, et seq.) 
 
The petition is denied without
prejudice and dismissed. Should circumstances change, Petitioner may file a new
petition. 
 
Petitioner need not provide notice
since no respondent appeared in the action.
 