 Case Number:  BC723513    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 7-11-24
Case BC723513
Trial Date: 8-12-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Erba, Inc., et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Second Site, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Second Site, LLC alleges entry into a
partnership agreement with defendant Los Angeles Wellness Center (LAWC),
whereby the parties would operate as a partnership from September 26, 2016,
through September 26, 2019, with two three year “options to renew.” The
agreement required Plaintiff a “right of first refusal” for the purchase of the
marijuana dispensary license held by Los Angeles Wellness Center during any
option period for “fair market value.” 
 
On a date after July 30, 2017, LAWC opened a facility on
4665 Melrose Ave., then moved the facility to 4881 Topanga Canyon Blvd.
Meanwhile, a facility operated by defendant Erba, Inc. operated a facility on
Pico, acquired LAWC rights in alleged violation of the partnership agreement. 
 
On September 26, 2018, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against a number of parties, including Erba, Inc., for Breach of Partnership
Agreement; Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing; Breach Of
Fiduciary Duty; Fraud; Unfair Competition; Tortious Interference With
Prospective Economic Advantage; Conversion; Conspiracy; Money Had And Received;
Negligence; Declaratory Relief; and, Injunctive Relief. On October 15, 2018,
Plaintiff filed a 170.6 challenge and the action was reassigned. On December 21,
2018, Plaintiff dismissed the City of Los Angeles without prejudice.
 
On February 1, 2019, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint for Breach of Partnership Agreement; Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Fraud; Unfair
Competition; Tortious Interference With Prospective Economic Advantage;
Conversion; Conspiracy; Money Had And Received; Negligence; and, Declaratory
Relief. On April 18, 2019, the court sustained the demurrer in part and
overruled the demurrer in part. 
 
On March 4, 2022, defendant Paul Scott filed a
cross-complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Negligent
Misrepresentation; and, Fraud. On August 12, 2020, the court sustained the
demurrer to the cross-complaint with leave to amend. On September 14, 2020,
Scott filed a first amended cross-complaint.
 
On November 20, 2020, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a second amended complaint. On December 9, 2020, Plaintiff filed the
second amended complaint for Breach of Partnership Agreement; Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Fraud; Unfair Competition; Tortious
Interference With Prospective Economic Advantage; Conversion; Conspiracy; Money
Had And Received; Declaratory Relief; Aiding and Abetting, and Accounting. The
second amended complaint added in new defendants as well. 
 
On January 14, 2021, the court sustained the demurrer to
the first amended cross-complaint with leave to amend. On February 22, 2021,
Scott filed a second amended cross-complaint. 
 
On April 1, 2021, and April 22, 2021, new defendants
filed 170.6 challenges, which were rejected. 
 
On April 22, 2021, the court overruled the demurrer to
the Second Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
RULING: Denied
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted in Part/Denied in
Part.
·        
The court takes judicial notice of the second
amended complaint, but not for the truth of the content.
·        
The court takes judicial notice of the existence
of Proposition D and California Health & Safety Code section 11379.6(a)
only. Any consideration of the sections should be addressed in the points and
authorities.
·        
The court cannot take judicial notice of the
articles of incorporation downloaded from the California Secretary of State
website in that the mere filing of said items in no way constitutes an official
act of the Secretary of State.
 
Defendants Erba, Inc., Jay Handal, Devon Wheeler, and
Gabriel Dezio, move for summary judgment on the second amended complaint. Defendants
move on grounds that the partnership agreement regarding marijuana licensing
rights in an and of itself constituted an illegal agreement, thereby preventing
enforcement of the agreement. Plaintiff Second Site, LLC in opposition maintains
no illegality in the contract exists. Any additional operations were separately
licensed and therefore never in violation of Proposition D. Defendants in reply
reiterate the illegal nature at the core of the agreement and illegal
cultivation operations. Defendants also challenge Plaintiff’s failure to “meet
their burden of proof” establishing triable issues of material fact.
 
The pleadings
frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Defendants’ argument for illegality in the purpose of the
contract relies on a finding that Plaintiff sought to operate multiple growth
and/or dispensary facilities under a single license. According to Defendants,
the licensing requirements governed by the City of Los Angeles only allow for
single site operations per license. The agreement regarding the operation for
multiple sites under a single license therefore constituted a statutory
violation and therefore an illegal agreement.
 
“Malum prohibitum
means ‘prohibited by statute’—malum
prohibitum
contracts are illegal as contrary to a statute.” (Russell City Energy Co., LLC v. City of Hayward (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 54, 71.) “If any part of a single
consideration for one or more objects, or of several considerations for a
single object, is unlawful, the entire contract is void.” (Civ. Code, § 1608.)
“[T]he doctrine of illegality
considers whether the object of the contract
is illegal.
It does not turn on whether the illegality applies to the party seeking to enforce the
agreement.” (McIntosh v. Mills (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 333, 346.) “[M]alum prohibitum
contracts may be enforceable despite their illegality if the parties were not
in pari delicto.” (Id. at p. 344 (footnote 10).)
 
The court reviews certain material
terms of the agreement. In addition to the partnership and options
agreement, paragraph 14 of the operative complaint alleges a profit sharing
agreement with reference to “operations” (e.g. facilities in more than one
location). The next paragraph continues that the agreement itself was based on
a City of Los Angeles “Measure D compliant dispensary” for the sale of
marijuana products in accordance with “requirements regulations” of the City of
Los Angeles and Department of Cannabis Regulations. The partnership agreement
identifies three separate locations for intended operations: 8010-8012 Remmet
Ave in Canoga Park; 7027-7029 Eton Ave in Canoga Park; and, 4665 Melrose Ave in
Los Angeles. [Declaration of Arthur Hodge, Ex. 1-2.] 
 
Defendants cite to Proposition D for support of the argument
regarding a prohibition of operations in more than one location per license.
Notwithstanding the provision, and lack of challenge from Plaintiff on the
specific subject, the Los Angeles Municipal Code indicates a repeal of Proposition
D: “The voters of the City of Los
Angeles adopted Article 5.1 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
regarding medical marijuana (Sections 45.19.6 through 45.19.6.9) as part of
Proposition D, a referendum submitted to the voters by the City Council at the
election held on May 21, 2013. The Council shall adopt an ordinance repealing
these provisions of Proposition D (Sections 45.19.6 through 45.19.6.9)
effective January 1, 2018, unless the Council adopts a Resolution, by majority
vote, specifying another date for the repeal. The Council retains and possesses
authority to amend, by ordinance, these provisions of Proposition D prior to
its repeal.” 
 
Sections
45.19.6 through 45.19.6.9 no longer appear operative. While the alleged breach
appears to have occurred sometime after 2017, the argument in support of the
motion for summary judgment in no way addresses the impact of the repeal of the
operative statute. The court declines to make the arguments for moving parties,
as it is their burden to establish the lack of a valid claim through the
affirmative defense of illegal contract. The City of Los Angeles apparently now
regulates cannabis operations via the guidelines of Proposition M, as presented
under Los Angeles Municipal Code section 104.00, et seq. 
 
Plaintiff tacitly
acknowledges the superseding of Proposition M for Proposition D based on a
position that immunity conveyed to any licensee under Proposition D automatically
extended under Proposition M, as long as compliance by the licensed operator was
previously established. Defendants in reply offer no counter argument or even
acknowledgment of Proposition M, and instead continues to reiterate Proposition
D. The court accepts Proposition M as the governing statute given the lack of
sufficient clarification, as is the burden of moving parties. 
 
Even under
Proposition M, however, Plaintiff acknowledges the single site location
restriction. Thus, the argument for statutory illegality remains a
consideration. On the other locations identified in the parties’ agreement, Plaintiff
contends the additional sites constituted “separate assets” in existence prior
to the agreement. Furthermore, the “cultivators” at said second sites obtained
separate licenses under Proposition M/LAMC 104, et seq. guidelines. Plaintiff
also denies any violation of processor laws.
 
Plaintiff
alternatively maintains reformation and severability prevent any declaration of
a void contract. Plaintiff concludes with a suggestion of waiver and estoppel
in that Defendants “waived” said defense or are estopped. The court declines to
consider the severability, waiver and estoppel arguments, in that the said
counter arguments constitute new argument beyond the scope of the framed issues
from the pleadings and as presented in the motion. Furthermore, as discussed
below, the court finds the merits of the argument do not warrant further
consideration into these potential issues at the time of the instant motion.
 
More
perfunctory, Defendants rely on an assumption that the agreement itself assumes
multiple, licensed required operations under a single license without actually
providing a copy of the entire agreement, or actually particularly addressing
the meaning and context of the terms of the agreement. The court cites to
fundamental contract interpretation rules.
 
“‘A contract must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting,
so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.’ (Civ. Code, § 1636.) ‘The
language of a contract is to govern its interpretation, if the language is
clear and explicit, and does not involve an absurdity.’ (Civ. Code, § 1638.)
‘When a contract is reduced to writing, the intention of the parties is to be
ascertained from the writing alone, if possible; subject, however, to the other
provisions of this Title.” (Civ. Code, § 1639.) “The whole of a contract is to
be taken together, so as to give effect to every part, if reasonably
practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.’ (Civ. Code, § 1641.)
‘A contract must receive such an interpretation as will make it lawful,
operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being carried into effect, if
it can be done without violating the intention of the parties.’ (Civ. Code, §
1643.) ‘The words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and
popular sense, rather than according to their strict legal meaning; unless used
by the parties in a technical sense, or unless a special meaning is given to
them by usage, in which case the latter must be followed.’ (Civ. Code, § 1644.)
‘However broad may be the terms of a contract, it extends only to those things
concerning which it appears that the parties intended to contract.’ (Civ. Code,
§ 1648.) ‘Repugnancy in a contract must be reconciled, if possible, by such an
interpretation as will give some effect to the repugnant clauses, subordinate
to the general intent and purpose of the whole contract.’ (Civ. Code, § 1652.)
‘Stipulations which are necessary to make a contract reasonable, or conformable
to usage, are implied, in respect to matters concerning which the contract
manifests no contrary intention.’ (Civ. Code, § 1655.)” (Siligo v. Castellucci (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 873, 880–881.)
 
“A contract term should not be construed to render some of
its provisions meaningless or irrelevant.” (Estate
of Petersen (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1742, 1754 (footnote 4).) “A
well-settled maxim states the general rule that ambiguities in a form contract
are resolved against the drafter. (Citations.) But that is a general rule; it
does not operate to the exclusion of all other rules of contract
interpretation. It is used when none of the canons of construction succeed in
dispelling the uncertainty.” (Oceanside
84, Ltd. v. Fidelity Federal Bank (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1448.)
 
The plain
language of the agreement only references a relocation of the “Dispensary” to
Melrose, with “future operations” contemplated at two additional locations on
Remmet Ave. and Eton Ave. for “120 lights + extraction” and “80 lights  + Dispensary” operations. Defendants cite
pages and pages of deposition testimony regarding operations without actually
addressing the parties’ understanding of the execution of the terms of the
agreement, such as reliance on a single license (under Proposition D), intent to
obtain additional licenses, or other forms of business operations (and
potential, required growth licenses). [Hode Decl., Ex. 3: Deposition of Ronald
Glantz.] One witness in fact even admits to an uncertainty as to business
operations for dispensary operations, but also references a separate
cultivation operation for the Remmet facility without any necessity of a
dispensary license. [Hode Decl., Ex. 4: Deposition of Michael Sapir.]
 
The court finds
no support for improper intended illegal operation of a second dispensary under
a single license. At the core of the agreement regarding the Remmet facility,
the unchallenged testimony from Sapir regarding the lack of any need for a
“BTRC” license for a non-dispensary operation in and of itself undermines any
argument for said license violation. As for Eton, Defendants reference
testimony from Sapir regarding operations, and undisputed material fact number
seven (7) in the separate statement directly cites to the Sapir deposition
“71:3-15,” but no such pages are incorporated into the actual Hodge
Declaration. Even relying on the purported copied portions of the deposition
transcript incorporated into the points and authorities, however, it only
appears Eton was for cultivation. There is no indication of any distribution
requirement or licensing requirements. [See Declaration of Michael
Sapir.]
 
Thus, given the
intended relocation of the single dispensary from Topanga to Melrose under the
Proposition M license requirement, Defendants fail to establish any actual
violation of the statute for purposes of the subject motion. Defendants
anticipated this potential, and alternatively argue that said cultivation
operations violate California Health and Safety Code section 11379(a).
 
The statute states in relevant part: “Except as otherwise provided ...  every person who transports, imports into this
state, sells, furnishes, administers, or gives away, or offers to transport,
import into this state, sell, furnish, administer, or give away, or attempts to
import into this state or transport any controlled substance ... unless upon
the prescription of a physician, dentist, podiatrist, or veterinarian, licensed
to practice in this state, shall be punished by imprisonment...” (Health &
Saf. Code, § 11379.)
 
Defendants cite to language regarding extraction activities,
but the plain language of the statute appears to address transpiration and
distribution rather than extraction or other forms of cannabis processing
activity. The correct section is California
Health and Safety Code section 11379.6, subdivision (a): “Except as otherwise provided by law, every person who manufactures,
compounds, converts, produces, derives, processes, or prepares, either directly
or indirectly by chemical extraction or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, any controlled substance ... shall be punished by imprisonment ...
and by a fine not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).”


(Health
& Saf. Code, § 11379.6.)
 
Defendants
again cite back to unattached deposition testimony from Sapir. [Undisputed
Material Fact 15, Sapir Depo, 251.2-22.] The court considers the represented
testimony from the points and authorities, whereby Sapir purportedly testified
to extraction operations at an unspecified location. Under this assumption,
Defendants conclude said extraction operation constituted an illegal activity,
thereby again voiding the agreement. 
 
The broad
scope of the terms of the agreement renders some validity to the argument as to
the partnership agreement for a potential “illegal” extraction operation
constituting a void term by statute. Plaintiff acknowledges the “meth lab”
penalty statute identified as  California Health and Safety Code section 11379.6, but
maintains an exemption to the statute exists for operations utilizing
non-flammable carbon dioxide extraction processes. [Sapir Decl.] (See Health
& Saf. Code, § 11362.3, subd. (a)(3) [“‘Volatile solvent’ means a solvent that is or produces a flammable gas or
vapor that, when present in the air in sufficient quantities, will create
explosive or ignitable mixtures”].) 
 
Defendants in reply maintain the
exemption was not applicable as the relied upon at the time were not in
existence. Thus, the violation occurred at the time of formation. Defendants
state the new regulations were adopted in 2018, and the contract was in fact
formed prior to 2018. “‘[L]egislative enactments
are generally presumed to operate prospectively and not retroactively unless
the Legislature expresses a different intention’” (Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1188, 1208.) A
distinction arises however when a statutory change “merely clarifies, rather
than changes, existing law.” A change that “clarifies” existing law properly
applies to all “transactions predating its enactment,” where if an action
“substantially changes the legal consequences of past actions or upsets
expectations based in prior law,” the proactive presumption applies. (Carter v. California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2006) 38
Cal.4th 914, 922.) 
 
The
conclusive argument in reply regarding a prospective application of the statute
without address of potential clarification for non “meth lab” related
activities renders the argument incomplete. The court again declines to make
the argument for Defendants. For purposes of the subject motion, the court
therefore finds no illegal conduct based on the operation of a carbon dioxide
based extraction facility also presents no basis for the determination of an
illegal extraction operation thereby voiding the partnership agreement in
regards to said operations. 
 
Finally, given
the claimed wrongful conduct by Defendants in transferring the license in
violation of the agreement, Defendants fail to dispel a potential in pari
delicto challenge to the application of the defense of malum prohibitum. In
other words, the court declines to find the illegal contract provision
applicable in favor of parties summonsed to the court due to their own
allegedly wrongful conduct.
 
The court therefore finds triable issues of material fact
arising from the parties’ partnership agreement based on the lack of any
evidence of any actual statutory violation under the operative regulation as
passed Proposition M and reflected in Los Angeles Municipal Code 104, et seq.,
California Health and Safety Code section 11397.6, subdivision (a). To the
extent Defendants depend on said argument for relief against all claims, and
the court cannot accord on any of the presented argument, the motion for summary
judgement is DENIED in its entirety.
 
Trial remains set for August 12, 2024.
 
Moving Defendants to give notice
to all parties.
 