  Case Number:  22STCV00253    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  55 22STCV00253
Arriaga v. Honda
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant’s PMQ
Plaintiff Ruth Arriaga moves for an order compelling
the deposition of Defendant Honda’s PMQ, and for sanctions. Defendant opposes
the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
Section 2025.450(a) provides that after service of a
deposition notice, if a party fails to appear without service of a valid
objection, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deposition. A motion to compel deposition attendance must include a declaration
showing that the moving party inquired about the nonappearance.  CCP §2025.450(b)(2).   “Implicit in the requirement that counsel
contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that
counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve
the issue," including by rescheduling. 
Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App.
4th 1109, 1124.  
ANALYSIS
As Plaintiff admits, Defendant timely served
objections to the PMQ deposition notice, in which Defendant stated the PMQ was
not appearing on the unilaterally noticed date. Plaintiff does not include a
declaration stating that Plaintiff took the non-appearance of the PMQ on the
unilaterally noticed date. Plaintiff attaches an email chain showing that
counsel emailed defense counsel to see about rescheduling the deposition after
receiving the objections. Based on this record, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not adequately established a basis for moving to compel the PMQ deposition.
The Court therefore denies the motion without prejudice. The Court also denies
the request for sanctions. 
The Court is disappointed in the way in which counsel
dealt with the scheduling of the deposition. Defendant’s objections to the deposition
notice stated that the PMQ would not appear on the unilaterally noticed date
but would appear on a mutually agreed upon date. Rather than pick up the
telephone to find a mutually agreeable date for the deposition, plaintiff’s
counsel sent a few emails asking for dates and then went ahead and filed this
motion a few weeks later. Plaintiff did this without even scheduling an IDC
with the Court to facilitate a resolution of the deposition scheduling without
motion practice.
Defendant’s counsel also has a part to play in this completely
avoidable discovery dispute. When Defendant served objections to the deposition
notice, Defendant provided no alternative dates for the deposition. Nor did defense
counsel pick up the telephone to schedule the deposition with Plaintiff’s
counsel. Defense counsel appears to have taken no further action on the
deposition scheduling until filing the opposition –which does not even contain
any potential dates for the deposition. 
The Court expects better from both counsel. Counsel
shall meet and confer prior to the hearing to find a date for the PMQ
deposition within one month of the hearing and inform the Court of this date at
the hearing. 