  Case Number:  23STCV12946    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Plaintiff's Motion
for Order to Approve PAGA Settlement
 
Plaintiff's Motion
for Order to Approve PAGA Settlement is granted. 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Shareeka Norris
filed this PAGA action against CG Hospitality
Group, Inc. (Defendant), and Doe defendants 1-100, alleging they failed
to pay Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees the proper amount of straight
time and overtime wages, provide aggrieved employees with meal periods, provide
required rest breaks or compensation, reimburse expenses, properly maintain and
submit accurate wage statements, and immediately compensate employees upon
termination. 
 
Plaintiff filed a Motion for Order to Approve PAGA Settlement.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Labor Code § 2699(l)(2) states: “The superior court shall
review and approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this
part [Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”)]. “The proposed
settlement shall be submitted to the [Labor and Workforce Development Agency
(LWDA)] at the same time that it is submitted to the court.” Lab. Code § 2699,
subd. (1)(2). With respect to PAGA settlement agreements, penalties recovered
by aggrieved employees must be distributed as follows: 75 percent LWDA and 25
percent to the aggrieved employees. Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (i). A prevailing
employee is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs
incurred in the action. Lab. Code § 2699, subd. (g)(1).
“[N]either the California legislature, nor the California
Supreme Court, nor the California Courts of Appeal, nor the [LWDA] has provided
any definitive answer as to what the appropriate standard is for approval of a
PAGA settlement.” Haralson v. U.S. Aviation Services Corp. (N.D. Cal.
2019) 383 F.Supp.3d 959, 971. However, our Supreme Court has held that a PAGA
claim is a form of a qui tam action. Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los
Angeles LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 382. Thus, the Court looks to the standards
in evaluating a qui tam settlement in evaluating this settlement, i.e. that the
settlement is “fair, adequate, and reasonable.” Cf. Cal. Govt. Code §
12652, subd. (e)(2)(B) (In a qui tam action, “[t]he state or political
subdivision may settle the action with the defendant notwithstanding the
objections of the qui tam plaintiff if the court determines, after a hearing
providing the qui tam plaintiff an opportunity to present evidence, that the
proposed settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable under all of the
circumstances.”) 
Similarly, in the context of class action settlements, the
trial court must determine that the settlement is fair, reasonable, and
adequate to all concerned. Reed v. United Teachers Los Angeles (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 332, 337. “[T]there is a presumption of
fairness when (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining;
(2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the trial
court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation;
and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.” Ibid. While PAGA actions
are distinct from class actions, because they share the same “fair, adequate,
and reasonable” standard, the presumption of fairness is equally applicable to
PAGA settlements. 
 
ANALYSIS
I. Procedural Requirements

The Court finds that all procedural requirements are met. 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing that she served
the following documents on Defendant and LWDA: 1. Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion
and Motion for Approval of Private Attorneys General Act Settlement Agreement,
For Attorneys’ Fees and Costs and Administrative Fees; Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support Thereof 2. Declaration of Shareeka Norris in Support of
Motion to Approve PAGA Settlement 3. Declaration of Aaron A. Bartz in Support
of Motion to Approve PAGA Settlement 4. Declaration of Jonathan Paul in Support
of Motion to Approve PAGA Settlement 5. Declaration of Walter L. Haines in
Support of Motion to Approve PAGA Settlement 6. [Proposed] Order and Judgement.
Plaintiff likewise filed the above documents in support of her motion. 
II. Reasonableness of Settlement
The settlement provides for Defendant to pay a total of $
173,000 of which $88,300 is to be paid in PAGA penalties, $57,900 to Plaintiff’s
counsel for attorney fees, $16,00 to counsel for expenses, $6,500 to the
settlement administrator, and $5,000 to Plaintiff as the “Aggrieved Employee
Representative. Motion at p. 2; Bartz Decl., Ex. A at ¶ 3.2.3.
1. Presumption of fairness. 
The Court finds that the settlement agreement is entitled to
a presumption of fairness. 
The parties arrived at the settlement agreement through
arm’s-length bargaining. Bartz Decl., ¶ 10. Plaintiff propounded discovery, and
during the meet and confer efforts, Defendant informally produced a
representative sampling of time and payroll records for aggrieved employees
Decl., ¶ 10,. Plaintiff’s counsel has twenty-seven years of experience
practicing law, the last ten of which focused on complex employment law and
wage and hour matter, serving as class counsel in several cases. Id. ¶ 13. Counsel testifies that “the
negotiations were non-collusive and involved considerable disputes over payment
terms.” Ibid. The Court finds that, based on this evidence, the
investigation of the PAGA claims is adequate to show a presumption of fairness.

2. Settlement amount
In this case,
Plaintiff seeks PAGA penalties only. The sole PAGA claim that is at issue in
this settlement concerns Defendant’s failure to: (1) pay all wages owed; (2)
provide duty-free meal periods; (3) authorize and permit duty-free rest
periods; (4) pay all wages due upon termination; and (5) properly maintain and
submit accurate itemized wage statements. Bartz Decl., ¶ 17.
Plaintiff
calculates Defendant’s maximum potential liability to be $2,583,343.00. That
figure breaks down as follows:
(a) Unpaid wages: $868,500
(b) Meal breaks: $780,543
(c) Rest period claims: $868,500
(d) Failure to pay wages on termination: $65,800
(e) Improper pay stubs: $1,737, 000. 
While the
maximum potential liability figure is considerably larger than is provided for
in the settlement, Plaintiff also provided information suggesting the
settlement is reasonable based on the strengths and weaknesses of Plaintiff's
suit. Bartz Decl., ¶ 17. Plaintiff asserts there was a low probability of
prevailing on these fact specific claims, and significant risks that the court
would exercise its discretion to reduce the penalties under Carrington v.
Starbucks Corp. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 504. Assuming a 10% chance of
prevailing on each claim, and a 30% penalty reduction, Plaintiff estimates that
Defendant’s actual PAGA exposure is much lower and estimates it to be $297,818.
Id. at ¶ 17. The settlement amount reflects approximately 58% of that
revised liability estimate. Plaintiff believes this to be a good result because
Defendant has potentially meritorious defenses and there is a question as to
whether a trial court will award cumulative penalties for potential overlap and
double count similar violations. Ibid. The Court finds that Plaintiff
has offered sufficient evidence to determine the relative strength of the
claims and the range of possible settlement values.
3. Attorney’s Fees
Class Counsel requests $57,900 in attorney fees, reflecting one-third
of the gross settlement. In common fund cases, the Court may employ a
percentage of the benefit method and may, in its discretion, cross-check the
requested percentage against the lodestar. See Laffitte v. Robert Half Int’l,
Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 480, 503. 
Plaintiff’s counsel worked approximately 76 hours, at hourly
rates between $850 and $650. Under the lodestar approach, this would total $66,295.
The lodestar cross-check shows an implied negative multiplier of approximately .87.
The Court finds the requested Attorney’s Fees reasonable. 
4. Settlement
Administrator
The proposed
settlement allocates up to $6,500 to Xpand Legal Consulting LLC (Xpand) for
administering the settlement. In support of the settlement, Plaintiff provides
the declaration of Jonathan Paul, CEO of Xpand. Based on the extensive
experience Xpand has in class action settlements, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has justified the allotment. Paul Decl. ¶ 2.
5. Aggrieved Employee Representative
The proposed
settlement allocates $5,000 to Plaintiff as the “Aggrieved Employee
Representative.” While incentive payments are a common feature of class action procedures,
PAGA is silent on incentive payments for the named plaintiffs. Moreover, PAGA’s
requirement that 25 percent of recovered penalties “shall be” distributed to
“the aggrieved employees” offers no suggestion that any employee should receive
more than his or her pro rata share. Lab. Code § 2699(i). PAGA civil penalties
“must be distributed to all aggrieved employees,” rather than solely to the
aggrieved employee who brings the PAGA action. Moorer v. Noble L.A. Events,
Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 736, 741-742. The Moorer court noted that
allocating 25 percent to all aggrieved employees “is consistent with the
statutory scheme under which the judgment binds all aggrieved parties,
including nonparties” and that a PAGA action “is fundamentally a law
enforcement action designed to protect the public and not benefit private
parties.”  Id. at pp. 742-743
(quoting Iskanian, 59 Cal.4th at p. 381). Nor can the Court uphold the
release as a valid settlement of Plaintiff’s individual wage claims, as the
text of the agreement makes clear it is compensation for her work as a
representative and there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s individual damages
merit that amount. Accordingly, the Court reduces the Aggrieved Employee
Representative payment from $5,000 to $0.00 and under the terms of the
settlement, those funds “become part of Net Settlement Amount for distribution
to participating Aggrieved Employees.” Bartz Decl. Ex. A at ¶ 3.2.3.
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff's Motion for Order to Approve PAGA Settlement is
granted. 