 Case Number:  24STCV19268    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  82 Suzanne Rene
Aslanyan v. Wells Fargo Bank, et al.
Case No.
24STCV19268
 
Ex Parte
Application to Stop Levy on Bank Account and 
Motion for
Preliminary Injunction
 
            Plaintiff
Suzanne Rene Aslanyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Wells Fargo Bank (“Wells
Fargo”) and the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (the
“CDTFA”) (collectively, “Defendants”) asserting causes of action for claim and
delivery and conversion.  Plaintiff
alleges that the CDTFA levied $126,975.02 from her bank account to satisfy a
tax debt of her husband, Sevan Aslanyan. 
Plaintiff states in her declaration that she has been married to Sevan
Aslanyan since 1988.  (Declaration of
Suzanne Rene Aslayan, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff
states that she and her husband separated in 2006, at which point they
“expressly agreed to maintain separate properties and obligations,” citing a
formal written agreement.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff states that she and her husband never
filed for divorce for religious reasons. 
(Id. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff also
suggests that the tax liability at issue existed before the separation
agreement: “I recall that when we both signed the Martial Agreement, it was acknowledged
by both of us that the tax liability which has become the basis for the levy by
the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (‘CDTFA’) was solely
only against Seven Aslanyan for his business debts, not myself.”  (Id. ¶ 4.) 
  
 
            Plaintiff
filed an “ex parte application to stop levy on bank accounts and motion for a
preliminary injunction.”  Specifically,
Plaintiff seeks an order “enjoining further levies and withdrawals of funds
from Plaintiff’s personal and separate bank accounts.”  The court construes this pleading as an ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order and an order to show
cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue.    
 
            Plaintiff
relies on a martial agreement, effective January 25, 2006, which states: “The
parties do not presently contemplate a separation and have no present intention
of obtaining a dissolution of their marriage.” 
(Declaration of Suzanne Rene Aslayan, Exh. A, ¶ D.)  However, the agreement states that all
property set forth in Exhibit C and “any property acquired by Suzanne during
the marriage by gift, bequest, devise or inheritance shall be and will remain
her separate property.”  (Id.,
Exh. A, ¶ 7(a).)  The agreement states
that all property set forth in Exhibit D and any property acquired by Sevan
during the marriage by gift, bequest, devise or inheritance shall be and will
remain his separate property.  (Id., Exh.
A, ¶ 7(b).  There is nothing listed in
Exhibit C or Exhibit D.  (Id., Exhs. C
& D.)  Plaintiff and her husband
agreed that each’s earnings and income will remain separate property.  (Id. ¶ 13.) 

 
            The
agreement does not expressly reference the CDTFA’s lien.  It states only: “Sevan may be liable for
certain other debts and obligations incurred in connection with the prior
operation of A&K, Inc., a corporation, including personal liability to the
State of California for sales tax liabilities (State) . . . .  Sevan agrees to indemnity and hold Suzanne
harmless from any and all Nondischargeable Obligations claims which . . . the
State, or the other creditors of A&K, Inc. may have, or claim to have, as against
Suzanne and/or her property, including all separate property which is confirmed
as Suzanne’s, or which she may acquire, pursuant to the terms of this
agreement.”  (Id. Exh. A, ¶ 18.)  
 
In deciding whether to grant a temporary restraining order,
the court looks to two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.)  The factors are interrelated, with a greater
showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  If the balancing of harms
strongly favors the moving party, there need only be “some possibility” that
the moving party will prevail on the merits. 
(Jamison v. Department of Transportation (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th
356, 362, citing Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668,
678.)  A preliminary mandatory injunction
is rarely granted.  (See Board
of Supervisors v. McMahon (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 286, 295; see also Shoemaker
v. County of Los Angeles (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 625.)  “The
granting of a mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases
where the right thereto is clearly established.”  (Teachers Ins. &
Annuity Ass’n v. Furlotti (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1487,
1493.)

 
            As an
initial matter, Plaintiff’s proposed order seeks a return of the funds seized
from her bank account.  That issue is not
properly before the court.  That remedy
was not requested in the notice, which seeks only an order “enjoining further
levies and withdrawals of funds from Plaintiff’s personal and separate bank
accounts.”  Even if the court construed
this application as seeking a writ of possession, that remedy is not available
for property that has been taken for “a tax, assessment, or fine,” per Code of
Civil Procedure section 512.010(b).
 
            To the
extent Plaintiff seeks an order preventing future levy by the CDTFA, Plaintiff
has not served the summons and complaint on the CDTFA and she articulates no
reason why she could not do so. 
Regardless, reaching the merits, Plaintiff does not demonstrate a
sufficient likelihood of success on the merits. 
Based upon her declaration, this tax debt was incurred during the
marriage stemming from her husband’s business. 
Plaintiff does not demonstrate that before 2006, her husband’s business
and all assets/liabilities were separate property.  
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that the CDTFA cannot levy more than 25 percent of her income, per
Code of Civil Procedure sections 704.070 and 706.050.  Section 706.050 applies to an “earnings
withholding order,” i.e., wage garnishment.  This section does not preclude the CDTFA from
seizing money from bank accounts.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, Plaintiff does not demonstrate a sufficient likelihood of
success on the merits.  Therefore, the ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of service with the court.      