 Case Number:  GC045468    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 27,
2023

MOTION
FOR ORDER PURSUANT TO JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # GC045468

 



MP:  


Francesca de
  la Flor (Defendant)




RP:  


330 South Fair
  Oaks Avenue, LLC (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
CASE SUMMARY:
 
Before
the Court is a motion brought by Francesca de la Flor (“Defendant”) seeking
leave of the Court to allow the sale of the property known as 2305 & 2315
Oregon Rd. Versailles KY (the “Kentucky Property”). In 2011, Defendant
transferred this property via quitclaim deed to Oak Knoll Meadows Farm Inc.
(“Oak Knoll”). In 2013, this Court entered judgment against Defendant signed by
Judge W. Stewart enjoining Defendant or Oak Knoll from selling the Kentucky
Property without a prior court order. Defendant now moves for such an order and
Plaintiff opposes. 
 
Defendant
submits a proposed order which would deem her transfer of the Kentucky Property
to Oak Knoll void. Defendant’s order requests the Court deem the Kentucky
Property as belonging to her personally, rather than to Oak Knoll. Defendant’s
order also requests the Court deem that Defendant has the right to sell the
property pursuant to the satisfactions of judgment filed. For reasons discussed
below the Court declines to grant Defendant’s order declaring the property
transfer void. However, the Court grants the motion insofar as it requests the
dissolution of the injunction imposed in the 2013 judgment. 
 
Property
Transfer
 
Defendant
states in her moving papers that the judgment in this matter declared her
transfer of the Kentucky Property to Oak Knoll void as a matter of law. This is
untrue.  The Uniform Fraudulent Transfer
Act (Civil Code §§3439 et seq., subsequently superseded with the Uniform
Voidable Transfer Act) indicates that transfers may be voidable but are not
necessarily void. The judgment contains statements that each property transfer
by Defendant was fraudulent. With respect to the four California properties concerned
(the “California Properties”), the judgment declares those transfers void,
subject to a constructive trust, and enjoined from sale without court order.
(Jud. ¶¶ 5-9.) The section of the judgment discussing the Kentucky Property
contains no mention of the transfer being void nor is the property included in
the constructive trust. (Jud. ¶ 10.) However, the judgment did enjoin the
sale of the property by Defendant and Oak Knoll without further order of the
court. (Id.) 
 
From the
papers presented to the Court, it appears the Kentucky Property is still under
ownership of Oak Knoll. Plaintiff’s counsel states in his declaration that he
has confirmed the Kentucky Property is indeed currently owned by Oak Knoll.
(Carlson Decl ¶ 5.) Defendant submits no recorded documents or any title
company report attesting to the status of current ownership. As such, for the
Court to enter an order declaring that Defendant may sell the property would
inappropriately reflect the actual ownership. 
To the extent that any party is authorized to move the Court to allow
sale of the Kentucky Property, it appears that party is Oak Knoll. Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the part of Defendant’s motion which asks the Court to deem
the property transfer void. 
 
Injunction

 
C.C.P. §
3424 provides “Upon notice and motion, the court may modify or dissolve a final
injunction upon a showing that there has been a material change in the facts
upon which the injunction was granted, that the law upon which the injunction
was granted has changed, or that the ends of justice would be served by the
modification or dissolution of the injunction.” 
 
Here,
Defendant has submitted evidence of a change in material facts which would
justify the dissolution of the injunction. Defendant has satisfied her judgment
and thus the purpose of the injunction restricting the sale of the Kentucky
Property has been fulfilled. There remains no reason to restrict the sale of
this property and the injunction should be dissolved.  However, the Court takes no position as to who
the current owner is nor who may sell the property.   The only action taken is lifting the
injunction prohibiting the sale.
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has not sought such an order before transferring the
enjoined California Properties. Plaintiff has previously provided satisfactions
of judgment which were sufficient to allow Defendant to transfer the California
Properties. (Carlson Delc. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff has offered to give Defendant
another satisfaction so that the Kentucky Property may be sold, which Defendant
declined as she believed it insufficient to satisfy the requirement in the
judgment. (Mot. p. 3.)  While it may be
true that Defendant did not seek an order dissolving the injunction before
selling the California Properties, that matter is not before the court and even
if true does not preclude her from bringing such a motion now for the Kentucky
property.
 
Plaintiff
further opines that Defendant seeks this order for the purposes of evading
business taxes on the sale of the Kentucky Property. Plaintiff attaches a
declaration of a certified public accountant, Michael Milam, which attests that
Defendant serves to save approximately $533,887 if she were to sell the
property rather than Oak Knoll. (Milan Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
The Court
need not delve into such matters. Defendant’s motivation for bringing this
motion has no bearing on the validity of the injunction restricting the
property sale. What Defendant chooses to do with the Kentucky Property after
the judgment has been satisfied is outside the scope of this motion. The Court
is confident that the Kentucky taxing authorities or federal government are
capable of seeking any appropriate remedies in a Kentucky court or United
States District Court if Defendant violates any state or federal tax laws.  Accordingly, the Court orders the injunction
restricting the sale of the Kentucky Property DISSOLVED. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
finds the transfer of the Kentucky Property to Oak Knoll was not voided by the
2013 judgment.  The Court also finds a sufficient
change in material facts, in the form of satisfactions of judgment, to dissolve
the injunction restricting the sale of the Kentucky Property. 
 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the event the
parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or
the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form
will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into
the court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Francesca de la
Flor’s Motion for Order
Pursuant to Judgment came on regularly for hearing on October 27, 2023 after
having been continued to this date, with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION IS DENIED IN PART AND GRANTED IN PART. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO VOID THE TRANSFER OF THE KENTUCKY PROPERTY TO OAK KNOLL IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO VACATE THE INJUNCTION RESTRICTING THE SALE OF THE PROPERTY LOCATED AT
2305 & 2315 OREGON ROAD, VERSAILLES, KENTUCKY IS GRANTED..
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES HAVE WAIVED NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
 
DATE: 
October 27, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 