 Case Number:  22BBCV00743    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 27,
2023

DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00743

 



MP:


Scott Amin Sheikh and The Sheikh Law Firm APC (Defendants)




RP:


Arnon Raphael, individually and as trustee of the Arnon
  and Terry Raphael Trust (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:
 
On October 12, 2022, Arnon Raphael, individually and as trustee of
the Arnon and Terry Raphael Trust (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit against Scott Amin Sheikh and The Sheikh Law Firm APC (collectively “Defendants”) alleging
Defendants failed to adequately represent him in prior legal matters. The First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) contains causes of action for (1) Negligence (Legal
Malpractice), (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (3) Breach of Contract. 
 
On June 2, 2023, the Court
sustained a demurrer to each cause of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint with
leave to amend. On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) containing the same causes of action, albeit with revised allegations. Defendants
now demur only to the third cause of action in the SAC. Defendants also move to
strike paragraph 46 of the SAC, as well as the second prayer for relief. Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false
allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting
a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations
that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The
court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.           
MEET AND CONFER
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) require that
the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Sheikh Decl.) 
 
III.           
MERITS
 
Demurrer
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action
on grounds that it does not properly set forth an alternative theory to
Plaintiff’s case of action for breach of contract. Defendants demurrer arguing
(1) the cause of action states insufficient facts and (2) the cause of action
is uncertain. The Court notes that Defendants’ papers contain no arguments
speaking to the factual sufficiency of the cause of action, and instead focus
entirely on the certainty grounds. Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot
simultaneously plead a breach of contract action and their legal malpractice
action because both are premised on the same operative facts. The relevant
facts are as follows: 
 
On or about February 18, 2024, Plaintiff
entered into a written agreement with Defendants in connection with various
lease related disputes (SAC ¶ 37.) The written agreement explicitly provided
that the representation did not include litigation services and that any such
litigation would need to be governed by a separate agreement. (SAC ¶ 38.)
Sometime in 2015 it became apparent litigation was needed and the parties
entered into an oral agreement to modify the scope of the written contract to
include litigation services. (SAC ¶ 40.) Alternatively, sometime in 2015 the
parties entered into an entirely separate contract in which Defendants agreed
to represent Plaintiff in litigation of the property dispute. (SAC ¶ 47.) 
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Further, a plaintiff is permitted to plead
alternative theories of liability such that their complaint would survive
demurrer. (Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 [“a party may plead
in the alternative and may make inconsistent allegations”]; see also Gebert
v. Yank (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 544, 554 [“Pleading of alternative theories
of relief on the same set of facts is, of course, quite proper…”].)
 
Plaintiff incorporates the facts of the written
agreement into his cause of action for breach of contract. (SAC ¶ 36.)
Defendants argue this incorporation renders the cause of action at odds with
the causes of action for Professional Negligence and Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
Defendants argue the third cause of action fails to “separately and coherently
plead inconsistent facts and causes of action”. (Dem. p. 7.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations in
the third cause of action are clear. Plaintiff pleads that the parties either
entered into an oral modification of their written retainer agreement or entered
a separate oral contract covering litigation services. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants breached both the agreement and the oral modification or, in the
alternative, Defendants breached both the written and oral contracts.
Plaintiff’s allegations are not so unclear that Defendants cannot respond to
them, nor are they so unclear that any factual issues could not be resolved in
discovery. It may be these factual allegations could have been structured
differently to present a more readable complaint, however such arguments are
not grounds for demurrer.  
 
Defendants next argue that the cause of action
for breach of contract is duplicative of the cause of action for Professional
Negligence. Defendants argue the cause of action for breach of contract adds
nothing to the SAC in the way of theory of recovery or liability. The Court
disagrees. 
 
A demurrer may be sustained when a cause of
action is duplicative of another cause of action and “thus adds nothing to the
complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.” (Rodrigues v. Campbell
Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.) There is a split among the
courts as to whether redundancy of a cause of action is a ground on which a
demurrer may be sustained. (Compare Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858 [holding redundancy is not a
proper ground for demurrer] to Rodrigues supra, 87 Cal.App.3d at 501
[holding demurrer may be sustained on grounds of redundancy].)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract
and Professional Negligence causes of action, while overlapping in some factual
regards, have a different theory of recovery as contract and tort causes of
action. Further, Plaintiff’s cause of action for Professional Negligence contains
allegations of Defendants’ failure to provide adequate legal expertise in
addition to failure to provide services under the retainer agreement. If
Plaintiff is unable to show the elements required to prove Professional
Negligence, it should not be that he is left without a remedy for the alleged breach
of the retainer agreement. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike paragraph 46 of the
SAC, as well as the second prayer for relief. Paragraph 46 concerns
consequential damages for Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action. The
second prayer for relief concerns the recovery of attorney’s fees.
 
Defendants argue that because the written
agreement between the parties did not include litigation services, there can be
no consequential damages for failure to adequately perform such services. As
previously discussed, the Court finds Plaintiff has adequately pled his breach
of contract claim. To the extent that Plaintiff has adequately pled his claim
for breach, he is entitled to seek consequential damages related to that
breach. 
 
Further, the Court finds Plaintiff is entitled
to pursue attorneys’ fees. “In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.”
(C.C.P. § 1717(a).) Here, Plaintiff alleges the initial contract contained a
clause providing for attorneys’ fees. (SAC ¶ 38, subpara. 11.) The
Court, having found Plaintiff adequately pled breach of this contract, also
finds that Plaintiff is entitled to plead damages in the form of attorneys’
fees. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED.
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Scott
Amin Sheikh and The Sheikh Law Firm APC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on
regularly for hearing on October 27, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER IS OVERRULED. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE A RESPONSIVE PLEADING
WITHIN 20 DAYS. 
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO
FEBRUARY 6, 2024, AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  October
27, 2023                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles