  Case Number:  21BBCV00515    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 27,
2023

MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21BBCV00515

 



MP:  


James Shayler (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Raffis Arutyunyan (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
CASE
SUMMARY:
 
On June
3, 2021, James Shayler (“Plaintiff”) brought this action for violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act against Jeff Muchamel (subsequently dismissed), Hayat
Muchamel (subsequently
dismissed),
and Raffis Arutyunyan (“Arutyunyan”) (collectively “Defendants”).
 
The
parties had previously reached a settlement in this matter in March of 2023. At
a June 5, 2023 OSC hearing, Counsel for Plaintiffs informed that Defendants had
not signed the settlement
and the
Court subsequently vacated the Notice of Settlement.
 
On
September 15, 2023, the Court granted a motion by Plaintiff to deem matters in
his Request for Admissions (“RFA”) admitted. The motion was unopposed by
Arutyunyan. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to enter judgment on the pleadings against Arutyunyan. Plaintiff requests
the Court take judicial notice of those matters deemed admitted. Plaintiff
argues these admissions establish that Arutyunyan has no defense against the
action and therefore judgement should be entered against him. (See Evans v.
California Trailer Court, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 540, 549 [holding that
admissions of matters which cannot be reasonably controverted are properly
considered on a motion for judgment on the pleadings].) 
 
Arutyunyan
has subsequently moved to vacate the September 15 order pursuant to C.C.P. §
473 on grounds of attorney mistake. Should Arutyunyan’s motion succeed, the
motion for judgment on the pleadings would be moot. As such, the Court finds it
would be best to hear Arutyunyan’s motion concurrently with Plaintiff’s motion.
The Court, in its discretion, continues Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings to December 8, 2023 so that the motions may be heard together. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
James Shayler’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings came on
regularly for hearing on October 27, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS
CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 8, 2023.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: October
27, 2023                            
 
________________________
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 