  Case Number:  23LBCV01235    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  S25 Plaintiffs Arthur Quintans, Jr and Krystal Quintans’ Motion to Compel Defendant Smiths Detection Inc.’s Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court may order a party to serve a further response to a request for production of documents when the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)Next, the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)DiscussionPlaintiffs move to compel Defendant SDI’s further responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) Nos. 2, 5-7, 15, 19-20 26-27, 36-38, 40-42, 44, and 45. (Moving Papers 3:4-6.)Defendant SDI argues that Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents (Set Two) renders the above requests moot and that Request for Production, Set Two, seeks all documents pertaining to four different HCVM devices with specific identification numbers and SDI has produced responsive documents to these requests. (Opposing Papers 8:1-4.) Defendant has not attached a copy of its responses to Request for Production of Document (Set Two) and Plaintiffs have not mentioned it in the instant motion filed on July 18, 2024. No reply has been filed by Plaintiffs. Accordingly, the Court will address Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) Nos. 2, 5-7, 15, 19-20, 26-27, 36-38, 40-42, 44, and 45.Request for Production No. 2 asks for all documents pertaining to Defendant SDI’s corporate history and structure. The Court DENIES this request as unduly burdensome and overly broad. To ask for all documents pertaining to Defendant SDI’s corporate history and structure is too all-encompassing for Plaintiffs’ purpose of seeking to ensure they have the correct entities and are aware of other related entities that may impact the case.Request for Production Nos. 5 and 6 ask for all documents pertaining to efforts to determine health hazards from and protect Defendant SDI’s employees from radiation. The Court DENIES these requests as unduly burdensome, irrelevant, vague and ambiguous and overly broad as to time and scope. Moreover, these requests likely seek documents protected by attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine.Request for Production No. 7 asks for all documents pertaining to membership in industry or trade organizations containing other entities manufacturing radiation-containing equipment or radioactive equipment. This request is irrelevant, unduly burdensome and overly broad. The Court DENIES this request.Request for Production No. 15 asks for all documents related to Defendant SDI’s HCVM X-ray screening system sold, delivered to or supplied to Port of Long Beach. To the extent that Defendant SDI has provided responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of Documents (Set Two) which identified the specific HCVM units and produced documents related to them, the Court finds this request moot.Request for Production No. 19 asks for all documents pertaining to patents or patent applications for any of Defendant SDI’s HCVM X-ray screening system. The Court DENIES this request as it is overly broad, unduly burdensome, seeks documents protected by attorney client privilege, attorney work product doctrine and requests documents reflecting trade secrets, proprietary and confidential information of Defendant SDI.Request for Production No. 20 asks for all documents pertaining to entities purchased or otherwise acquired radiation sources for the HCVM X-ray screening system and/or components from Defendant SDI’s inception to present. The Court finds the request ambiguous and vague as to “radiation sources”. Moreover, it is unduly burdensome and overly broad as to HCVM X-ray screen system without specifying the specific type produced and manufactured by Defendant SDI. The request is DENIED.Request for Production No. 26 asks for all documents pertaining to Defendant SDI’s decision to either include or not include warnings with the HCVM X-ray screening system. This request is overly broad as to the type of warnings and is unduly burdensome is Defendant SDI is to produce all documents related to warnings or not including warnings for all types of HCVM X-ray screen systems. The request is DENIED.Request for Production No. 27 seeks written reports or communications from Defendant SDI’s insurance carriers regarding radiation. The Court GRANTS this request to the extent that the reports are related to the specific HCVM X-ray screening systems encountered by Plaintiffs and that such documents are not protected by attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine and does not disclose trade secrets, confidential information and/or proprietary information from Defendant SDI.Request for Production No. 36 asks for the total compensation for the president and/or chief executive officer of each defendant company for the most recently ended fiscal year. The Court DENIES this request as irrelevant, and Defendant SDI has already provided insurance coverage information regarding ability to pay. The Court recognizes that punitive damages may not be covered by insurance coverages and that there is a pending demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendant SDI partially related to punitive damages.Request for Production No. 37 asks for indemnity agreements of any kind between any defendant company/companies and any other entity/entities. The Court DENIES this request as irrelevant, and Defendant SDI has already provided insurance coverage information regarding ability to pay. The Court recognizes that punitive damages may not be covered by insurance coverages and that there is a pending demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendant SDI partially related to punitive damages.Request for Production No. 38 asks for all documents identifying reserves for any liabilities covering this claim by defendant and its affiliates, parent corporations, holding companies or subsidiaries. The Court DENIES this request as irrelevant, and Defendant SDI has already provided insurance coverage information regarding ability to pay. The Court recognizes that punitive damages may not be covered by insurance coverages and that there is a pending demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendant SDI partially related to punitive damages.Request for Production No. 40 asks for any documents evidencing insurance coverage and the amount of coverage for this action. The Court DENIES this request as Defendant SDI has already provided its relevant insurance coverage information.Request for Production No. 41 asks for all documents referencing the message from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency representatives regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system. The request is DENIED because it is ambiguous as to “message”. It is also overly broad and unduly burdensome as to “message” and “HCVM X-ray screening system”. Moreover, it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs have not elaborated what communication or message was sent or received regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system; indeed, nospecific allegation of such a communication or message is specifically pleaded in the complaint.Request for Production No. 42 seeks all documents referencing communication from National Treasury Employees Union including, but not limited to Paul Sumbi on December 1, 2014 regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system. The request is DENIED because the request is ambiguous as to “communication”. It is also overly broad and unduly burdensome as to “communication” and “HCVM X-ray screening system”. Moreover, it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs have not elaborated what communication or message was sent or received regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system; indeed, no specific allegation of such a communication or message is specifically pleaded in the complaint.Request for Production No. 44 asks for all documents regarding maintenance or other services Defendant SDI performed on HCVM X-ray screening units for customers generally. The Court DENIES this request as overly broad, unduly burdensome and vague and ambiguous as to “maintenance or other services.” The request is also unduly burdensome and overly broad as to customers.Request for Production No.45 asks for all documents regarding maintenance or other services Defendant SDI performed on HCVM X-ray screening units for CBP specifically. The Court DENIES this request as overly broad, unduly burdensome and vague and ambiguous as to “maintenance or other services”.Plaintiffs request sanctions in the amount of $2,400.00 for work performed in this matter. If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction. The instant motion does not contain a declaration setting forth a breakdown of costs and attorneys’ fees for sanctions. No explanation as to how Plaintiffs came up with the amount of $2,400.00 in monetary sanctions has been provided.Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.Plaintiffs Arthur Quintans, Jr and Krystal Quintans’ Motion to Compel Defendant Smiths Detection Inc.’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).) The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)Next, the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)DiscussionPlaintiffs move to compel Defendant SDI’s further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 4-7, 9, 15-16, and 20-25. (Moving Papers 3:4-5.)Defendant SDI argues that it has provided supplemental verified responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 20-22 and 25, thereby rendering them moot. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant SDI did not supplement their responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 20-22, 25, when Defendant SDI provided its supplemental responses on August 1, 2024. Plaintiffs assert that Defendant SDI only provided supplemental verified responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 2, 4, 6 and 8. Plaintiffs maintain these supplemental responses are not clear. (Reply Papers, Ex. A.)Plaintiffs have withdrawn Special Interrogatories Nos. 23 and 24 but maintain that Defendant SDI’s responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 4-7, 9, 15, 16, 20-22 and 25remain insufficient. It is unknown whether Defendant SDI has now provided the promised supplemental verified responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 20-22. As to Special Interrogatory No. 25, it is unknown whether Defendant SDI has now provided the promised supplemental verified response confirming it conducted a reasonable inquiry and diligent search but was unable to find any responsive information. Accordingly, the Court will only address Special Interrogatory Nos. 4-7, 9, 15, 16, 20-22 and 25.Special Interrogatory Nos. 4-7, 15, 16 request that Defendant SDI to provide facts pertaining to its sale, supply and/or marketing of the HCVM X-ray screen system to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, SoFi Stadium, Rose Bowl, Port of Long Beach as well as maintenance performed on the HCVM X-ray screening system purchased by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency annually as well as for other customers. The Court finds that the requests are overly broad and unduly burdensome to the extent that Plaintiffs fail to specify which specific type of HCVM unit that allegedly exposed him to radiation and there is no time limit on the scope of Plaintiff’s request.Special Interrogatory No. 9 asks Defendant SDI to describe the search it conducted for documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production (Set One). Defendant SDI argues it has already informed Plaintiffs that Defendant SDI conducted a reasonable and diligent search and that is all that required under California law. Plaintiffs counter that Defendant SDI needs to provide the detailed information that is the basis of Defendant SDI’s representation that they did conduct a reasonable inquiry and diligent search for documents. Plaintiffs have not provided any legal authority in support of their proposition that Defendant SDI must provide a description of its search for documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production (Set One). Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs are not entitled to a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 9.Special Interrogatories Nos. 20 and 21 seek identification of all persons to whom Defendant SDI or its employees received a communication from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency or forwarded a communication from the U.S. Custom and Border Protection Agency representatives regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system. The requests are DENIED because the Special Interrogatories are ambiguous as to “communication”. They are also overly broad and unduly burdensome as to “communication” and “HCVM X-ray screening system”. Moreover, it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs have not elaborated what communication or message was sent or received regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system; indeed, no specific allegation of such a communication or message is specifically pleaded in the complaint.Special Interrogatory No. 22 seeks responses taken by Defendant SDI in response to the message from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency representatives regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system. The request is DENIED because the Special Interrogatory is ambiguous as to “message”. It is also overly broad and unduly burdensome as to “message” and “HCVM X-ray screening system”. Moreover, it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs have not elaborated what communication or message was sent or received regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system; indeed, no specific allegation of such a communication or message is specifically pleaded in the complaint.Special Interrogatory No. 25 asks for the identification of all persons to whom Defendant SDI or its employees forwarded the communication from National Treasury Employees Union including, but not limited to Paul Sumbi on December 1, 2014 regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system. Plaintiffs are not entitled to a further response as to Special Interrogatory No. 25. The requests are DENIED because the Special Interrogatory is ambiguous as to “communication”. They are also overly broad and unduly burdensome as to “communication” and “HCVM X-ray screening system”. Moreover, it is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiffs have not elaborated what communication or message was sent or received regarding hazardous quantities of radiation associated with the HCVM X-ray screening system; indeed, no specific allegation of such a communication or message is specifically pleaded in the complaint. Plaintiffs request for further response to Special Interrogatory No. 25 is DENIED.Plaintiffs request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,400 is DENIED.