 Case Number:  24PSCV00171    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Felix
Preciado, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al. 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Entry of Protective Order to Govern Production
of Confidential Materials 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion for entry
of protective order to govern production of confidential materials with respect to the revisions to the LASC Model Protective
Order. However, the Court will grant the motion to the extent Ford will sign
the LASC Model Protective Order as drafted by the Court without the proposed revisions. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a lemon law case. On January 16, 2024, plaintiffs Felix Preciado
and Eudelia Preciado (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants
Ford Motor Company (Ford), Puente Hills Ford, LLC, a California Limited Liability
Company DBA Puente Hills Ford, and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action
for violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty and negligent
repair. 
On July 30, 2024, Ford moved for a protective order. On August 26,
2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On August 28, 2024, Ford replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
(a) When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subds. (a), (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060, subdivision (a),
Ford was required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs before bringing this
motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) The Court finds the parties’ efforts
to meet and confer satisfactory. (Moawad Decl., ¶¶ 6-10.) 
Summary of Arguments 
Ford seeks to modify three paragraphs from the model protective
order provided by the Los Angeles County Superior Court, namely paragraphs 7,
8, and 21. Ford seeks to modify paragraph 7 by removing mock jury participants
from the class of persons who may view confidential materials. Ford also seeks to
require the parties’ respective attorneys, firms, in-house counsel, legal staff,
and outside experts to execute the certification form attached as Exhibit A to
the model protective order (the Certification Form). Ford seeks to modify
paragraph 8 of the model protective order to prevent confidential materials online
and not advertise, publicize, or offer such confidential materials for sale. Ford
then seeks to modify paragraph 21 to require the return of Ford’s confidential
documents or their destruction at the end of the case. Ford notes that the
model protective order contains language at the top indicating that it is meant
to be an initial working draft. Ford contends the protective order is necessary
to ensure reasonable protection of confidential information, and that the
documents at issue contain Ford’s confidential business information regarding
the handling of customer complaints and Ford’s Warranty and Policy Manual. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend Ford failed to timely move for a
protective order, as Plaintiff served the discovery requests seeking the
purportedly confidential information in March 2024, and Ford did not file the
motion until months later. Plaintiffs then contend that Ford fails to show good
cause for seeking the proposed modifications. Plaintiffs contend that Ford has
previously agreed to the model protective order in other cases and that Ford
fails to show how the proposed modifications would prejudice Ford if they were
not granted. Plaintiffs contend Ford’s proposed modifications limiting which
attorneys can access the documents is unnecessary because they would unduly
inhibit Plaintiffs’ counsel from potentially having co-counsel, and the model
protective order would already prohibit the use of these documents for any
purpose unrelated to this action. Plaintiffs also contend Ford’s proposed modification
requiring all Plaintiffs’ counsel’s firm’s employees to sign the Certification Form
would be a logistical nightmare, plus the model protective order already requires
firms to apprise their employees of the restrictions of the protective order. 
Plaintiffs then contend Ford’s proposed modification preventing
access to mock jury participants is unreasonable because the model protective
order already requires mock jury participants to sign the certification form,
which provides the participants to provide their address and telephone number.
Plaintiffs contend this would unduly inhibit Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare for
trial using mock jury participants. Plaintiffs further contend the proposed
modifications regarding the dissemination of the documents or confidential
information is unwarranted given the protections contained in the model
protective order, as paragraph 8 of the model protective order already limits
the confidential materials only to the case and for no other purposes. Plaintiffs
finally contend the proposed modifications to paragraph 21 regarding the return
or destruction of the documents after the case is over is unwarranted because
Plaintiffs’ counsel should be able to retain a complete copy of the case file. 
In reply, Ford contends its motion is timely because Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.060, subdivision (a), does not contain mandatory
language regarding the promptness of making the request. Ford then contends
Plaintiffs have not established that Ford’s proposed modifications are
improper, inappropriate, or unnecessary, noting that it is irrelevant whether
Ford previously agreed to the model protective order in a different case
because the facts are not necessarily the same, and Plaintiffs’ counsel
similarly agreed to Ford’s proposed protective order in a different matter
earlier this year. Ford then largely reiterates the bases set forth in its
moving papers regarding the purported need for the proposed modifications. 
Analysis 
The responding party waives its right to object to a
request for production of documents, and thereby the right to seek a protective
order regarding the production of the documents requested, if the responding
party fails to timely respond to the requests. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subd. (a); Id., § 2031.260, subd. (a); Id., § 2031.300, subd. (a);
5. [8:1452] Protective Orders:, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch.
8H-5.) But, even if the responding party has waived the right to object to the
request for production of documents, the responding party may still later seek
a protective order regarding the dissemination of the documents requested. (Nativi
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 317 (Nativi).)
Here, Ford provided responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests. (Moawad Decl.,
Ex. A.) The issue then is not really the production of the document themselves,
but their dissemination after they have been produced. (See Nativi, supra,  223 Cal.App.4th at p. 317.) Thus, the Court
finds Ford’s motion is timely. 
With
respect to the modifications sought, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs, and does
not find Ford’s proposed modifications necessary or particularly helpful for
the parties. Ford’s proposed modifications to paragraph 7 of the model
protective order limiting Plaintiffs’ counsel’s access to only attorneys within
the same firm would be overly restrictive by potentially interfering with the
retention of co-counsel. The model protective order already limits the use of
the confidential documents to this case only, so there should not be any
concern about the documents getting passed on to other firms for use in other
cases or for purposes unrelated to this case. (See LASC Model Protective Order,
¶ 8.) 
The
Court then finds the request to require all employees of Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
firm to execute the Certification Form to the model protective order to be
onerous and unnecessary. The model protective order would already obligate
Plaintiffs’ counsel to fully apprise non-lawyer staff of the confidential
nature of these documents and the restrictions imposed thereon via the
protective order. (See LASC Model Protective Order, ¶ 7, subd. (b)(1).) 
The
Court also finds the proposed removal of mock jury participants from the scope
of paragraph 7 of the model protective order to be excessive, as it would
unduly inhibit Plaintiffs’ counsel’s ability to prepare for trial. Also, the
model protective order already requires mock jury participants to sign the Certification
Form, which requires the participants to provide their contact information. (See
LASC Model Protective Order, Ex. A.) 
For
paragraph 8 of the model protective order, the Court finds it already
adequately addresses Ford’s concerns about dissemination online or being
offered for sale or advertisement. Paragraph 8 specifically limits the use of
the confidential materials to this case, and expressly excludes their use for
any business purposes or other purposes unrelated to this case. (LASC Model
Protective Order, ¶ 8.) 
For
paragraph 21 of the model protective order, the Court finds Ford’s proposed modification
unwarranted. Paragraph 21 already governs the disposition of confidential
materials after the case has settled or otherwise terminated and provides the
procedures for returning the confidential materials, destroying them, or asking
the Court for guidance on the disposition of other materials. (LASC Model
Protective Order, ¶ 21.) The Court finds Ford’s proposed modification
excessive, as it could unduly inhibit Plaintiffs’ counsel’s ability to maintain
its case file, such as work product and copies of pleadings. Also, as has been
noted herein, the model protective order already limits the use of the
confidential materials to this case only, so Plaintiffs’ counsel would be prohibited
from using the materials in other cases. (See LASC Model Protective Order, ¶
8.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion with respect to the revisions to the
LASC Model Protective Order. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion for entry
of protective order to govern production of confidential materials with respect to the revisions to the LASC Model Protective
Order. However, the Court will grant the motion to the extent Ford will sign
the LASC Model Protective Order as drafted by the Court without the proposed revisions. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.