  Case Number:  22PSCV01908    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Yin  Chieh Chuang v. Jay Hooper  Motion  of James L. Reynolds to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Jay Hooper  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion of James L. Reynolds to be relieved as  counsel for Defendant Jay Hooper. The Court directs Counsel to serve the signed  order on Defendant Jay Hooper and file the proof of service of the signed order  with the Court within five calendar days of this order.               Counsel is ordered to give notice of  the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This case is a business dispute. On November 18, 2022, plaintiff Yin  Chieh Chuang (Plaintiff) filed this action. On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed  the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against defendant Jay Hooper aka  Jay Ho Hooper (Defendant) and Does 1 to 10, alleging the sole cause of action  for breach of contract.  On August 12, 2024, James L. Reynolds, counsel for Defendant,  moved to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD   The Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.) A motion to  be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of  Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite  forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in  the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) DISCUSSION              James L. Reynolds  (Counsel) seeks to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Jay Hooper on the  grounds that Defendant has materially breached the representation agreement and  there has been an irreconcilable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship.  (Reynolds Decl., Attach. 2, ¶¶ 2-3.) Counsel also indicates having warned  Defendant of the intent to withdraw unless Defendant remedies the breach. (Id.)  The Court  finds Counsel has presented adequate grounds for withdrawal. Grounds for  permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation include the client’s  conduct that, “renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out  the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, rule  1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is also  grounds for allowing the attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987)  188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) Additionally, Counsel has demonstrated compliance  with Rule 1.16, subdivision (b)(5), of the California Rules of Professional  Conduct, which require the attorney to warn the client of the attorney’s intent  to withdraw unless the client remedies the breach. (Cal. Rules of Professional  Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(5); Reynolds Decl., Attach. 2, ¶¶ 2-3.)  Counsel has provided the appropriate Judicial Council forms,  namely forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053, and has properly completed them. (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) Counsel has also provided  proof of service of these documents on Defendant at Defendant’s current  address. (Notice of Motion, p. 3 of pdf.) The only issue the Court notes is  that the future hearing dates listed on the proposed order are no longer  current, as this motion was served before the Court ruled on Plaintiff’s motion  for summary judgment on August 13, 2024. This can be easily corrected by  Counsel submitting an updated proposed order for the Court’s review and  signature or the Court will strike out the past dates.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved  as counsel.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the motion of James L. Reynolds to be relieved as  counsel for Defendant Jay Hooper. The Court directs Counsel to serve the signed  order on Defendant Jay Hooper and file the proof of service of the signed order  with the Court within five calendar days of this order.               Counsel is ordered to give notice of  the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.