

 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
June 28, 2024, Plaintiff Adriana Maria Moreno (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants United Car Company, Inc. (“UCC”), First Credit Finance (“FCF”),
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company (“PII”), and Does 1 to 40. Plaintiff
purchased a used vehicle from UCC and alleges UCC made false representations
and omissions regarding the vehicle’s history, safety, and condition. Plaintiff
signed a Retail Installment Contract (“Contract”) with UCC, which was assigned
to FCF as the financer. The Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
(1) Violation of Consumers Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code § 1750 et seq., (2)
Violation of California Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.,
Unlawful Acts or Practices, (3) Violation of Civil Code §1632, (4) Claim
Against Surety, and (5) Violation of Code of Civil Procedure §§1281.97, 1281.99.
 
            On
September 9, 2024, Defendant FCF filed an answer. Defendant UCC das not filed
an answer.
 
            On July 31,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel arbitration, request to stay the
proceeding, request for an order requiring FCF to pay all costs and fees
related to arbitration.
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiffs
contends that on September 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a CRLA Demand
Letter to Defendants UCC and FCF (“Defendants”), which included a formal Demand
for Arbitration. (Sadr. Decl., Exh. 2.) On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed for
arbitration via American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) with UCC and FCF as
parties. (Mot. p.6, lines 3-18.) On March 29, 2024, AAA sent Plaintiff and
Defendants a letter informing them that AAA declined to administer the
arbitration with UCC because UCC failed to comply with AAA’s policies regarding
consumer claims prior to this arbitration. (Sadr Decl., Exh. 4.) AAA further
noted that if UCC indicated its intent to comply with AAA’s polices in the
future, AAA would consider accepting newly filed cases going forward. (Ibid.)
On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed for arbitration with AAA against only FCF. On
June 7, 2024, AAA sent a letter to all parties stating that FCF had failed to
pay the required fees by the June 6, 2024, deadline and that the case was
closed. (Sadr Decl., Exh. 6.)  
 
            Plaintiff
elects to arbitrate via the AAA pursuant to the Contract, or in the
alternative, via JAMS. Plaintiff asserts that both Defendants are required to
be parties to the arbitration pursuant to the contract. 
 
Plaintiff argues
the right to compel arbitration has not been waived because Plaintiff attempted
to initiate arbitration, but Defendants failed to comply. Plaintiff argues FCF
is in material breach of the agreement because it failed to pay initial
arbitration fees as required by CCP §1281.97. As a result, Plaintiff has the
right to “[c]ompel arbitration in which the drafting party shall pay reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs related to the arbitration.” (Cal. Civ. Proc.
§1281.97, subd. (b)(2).) Plaintiff acknowledges both Defendants have
responsibility to pay under the arbitration provision, although Plaintiff only
seeks FCF to pay.
            
 
OPPOSITION
 
            FCF agrees
to arbitrate via AAA and objects to arbitration via JAMS. FCF notes that when
Plaintiff filed this motion, it was in the process of posting fees in the AAA
claim.
 
            UCC has not
filed an opposition as of September 26, 2024.
             
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
was filed as of September 26, 2024. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Legal Standard
            Parties may
be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was
a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement
covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (CCP §
1281.2; see also Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden
of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿
 
¿           “If a court
of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which
is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)¿¿ 
 
II. Discussion
 
A.   
Motion to Compel
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement 
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act
and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must establish
the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court
must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“With respect to the moving party’s
burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to arbitrate,
it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to
the court. (See¿Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee¿); see also Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in
addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement
and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once such a document is presented to
the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who
may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings,
LLC¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) 
 
Plaintiff has incorporated the
arbitration provision in verbatim in the motion and has provided a copy of the
Contract. (Mot. p.6, Lines 15-23, Sadr Decl., Exh. 2.) The arbitration provision
provides the following:
 
“Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise
(including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court decision… You may
choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, Floor 10, New York,
NY 10019 (www.adr.org); or any other organization to conduct the arbitration
subject to our approval.”
 
(Id.)
 
            UCC
and Plaintiff signed the agreement. (Id.) While FCF did not sign the Contract,
FCF is bound as the Contract holder pursuant its terms. The pertinent provision
states the following:
 
ANY HOLDER OF THIS CONSUMER CREDIT CONTRACT IS SUBJECT TO ALL CLAIMS AND
DEFENSES WHICH THE DEBTOR COULD ASSERT AGAINST THE SELLER OF GOODS OR SERVICES
OBTAINED PURUSANT HERETO OR WITH THE PROCESS HEREOF.
 
(Id.; see also Opp., Exh. A.
(assigning the contract to First Credit Finance below this provision.))
            
FCF has also agreed to arbitrate the
Contract in its opposition to this motion. 
            
            The
Court thus finds the existence of an arbitration agreement in the Contract.
 
Validity of Agreement
 
            FCF
has not contested the validity of the agreement. UCC has not filed an
opposition. 
 
As neither Defendant has challenged
the validity and enforceability of the arbitration agreement, the Court finds
the arbitration provision is valid and enforceable. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
motion to compel arbitration and the request to stay the action. 
 
The Court notes that AAA declined to
administer this arbitration with UCC because UCC failed to comply with AAA’s
policies regarding consumer claims in the past. (Sadr Decl., Exh. 4.) If UCC
indicates its intent to comply with AAA’s polices in the future, AAA would
consider accepting newly filed cases going forward. (Ibid.)
 
B.     Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Related to the Arbitration
 
Plaintiff requests the Court to order FCF
to pay expenses related to the arbitration up to $5000, in accordance with the
arbitration provision and CCP §1281.97. The Court finds both Defendants have
responsibility to pay, although Plaintiff only requests that FCF pays.
 
CCP §1281.97, subdivision (a)(1) states that “[i]n an employment or
consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of
state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting
party to pay certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the
fees or costs to initiate an arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days
after the due date the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration
agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel
arbitration under Section 1281.2.”
 
CCP §1281.99 states that a court “shall impose a monetary sanction
against a drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration agreement
pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97. . .by ordering the drafting
party to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees and costs,
incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of the material breach.” CCP
§1280, subdivision (e) defines “Drafting party” as “the company or business
that included a predispute arbitration provision in a contract with a consumer
or employee. . .[including] any third party relying upon, or otherwise subject
to the arbitration provision, other than the employee or consumer.” The Court
finds both Defendants are “drafting parties” for the purposes of CCP §1281.99.
 
The Court acknowledges that the arbitration provision is governed by the
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA). (Sadr Decl., Exh. 1 (“Any arbitration under this
Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9
U.S.C. §1 et seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration.”).)
Nevertheless, the Court is able to award reasonable expenses related to the
arbitration because the FAA does not preempt CCP §§ 1281.97, 1281.99. (See Gallo
v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 621, 642-43 (“sections
1281.97 and 1281.99 facilitate arbitration by preventing parties from insisting
that a dispute be resolved through arbitration and then sabotaging that
arbitration by refusing to pay the fees necessary to move forward in
arbitration.”).)
 
The arbitration provision states the following in regard
to fees: “We will pay your filing, administration, service, or case management
fee and you arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum of $5000, unless the
law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require us to pay
more.” (Sadr Decl., Exh. 2.)
 
Plaintiff attempted to initiate arbitration via a demand
letter to Defendants, which indicated their responsibility to pay pursuant to
the arbitration provision. (Sadr Decl., Exh. 2.) Plaintiffs then filed for
arbitration with AAA, including both Defendants. (Mot. p.4, Lines 3-18.). AAA
refused to arbitrate with UCC because of its failure to comply with AAA polices
in the past. (Ibid.) Plaintiff then filed for Arbitration solely against
FCF. (Ibid.) AAA eventually cancelled the case because FCF failed to pay
the fees pursuant to CCP §1281.97 by the June 6, 2024, due date. (Sadr Decl.,
Exh. 7.)
 
Both parties thus are in violation of CCP §1281.97 and
the arbitration provision. FCF failed to make the required payment for
arbitration to AAA by June 6, 2024, due date and UCC was prevented from
participating in the arbitration. (Sadr Decl., Exhs. 4, 7.) 
 
The Court finds Defendants must pay
for Plaintiff’s reasonable expenses related to the arbitration up to $5000, as
required by the arbitration provision. 

 
III. Conclusion

 
            The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay the Action.
 
Civil Proceedings are stayed pending completion of Arbitration.
                                                
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for expenses.  The Court finds Defendants must pay for
Plaintiff’s reasonable expenses related to the arbitration up to $5000, as
required by the arbitration provision.
 
Post
Arbitration Status Conference is set for May 8, 2025 at 9:30 a.m.in Department
25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Counsel
are ordered to electronically file a JOINT Declaration / Report Re:  Status of Arbitration at lease five (5) court
days prior to 05/08/2025.
 
The
Trial date of 12/26/2025 is advanced to this date and hereby taken off
calendar.  
 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  