  Case Number:  23TRCV02523    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  to Compel Binding Arbitration   Moving  Party: Defendant Tesla  Motors, Inc.              Responding Party: Plaintiff Bret Lieberman   RULING   Having  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the motion to compel  binding arbitration and stay proceedings is GRANTED. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Bret Lieberman (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-10, inclusive  alleging five causes of action for violations of Statutory Obligations under  the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Civ. Code sections 1790-1795.8.   On September 24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. On November 26,  2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. Defendant filed a reply on December 4,  2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On January  19, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a Tesla Model 3 (the “Vehicle”) manufactured by  Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 5.)   Plaintiff  received an express written warranty which stated that if a defect developed  during the warranty period, Plaintiff could deliver the Vehicle to a repair  shop to make repairs. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)   During the  warranty period, several defects developed. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) However,  Defendant failed to repair the Vehicle after several attempts. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)              LEGAL STANDARD             Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding  that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2)  said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’  dispute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of  valid arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)          The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a  transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause.  (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of  the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon  grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.)  A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of  generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or  unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an  arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration  provisions. (Ibid.)     For the FAA to apply, a contract must involve interstate commerce. (Ibid.)  When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle  to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc.  (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the  burden to present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration  provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA  inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the form of  declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract affects  interstate commerce.  (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter of  contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis  v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.)              “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the  existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party  thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the  petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines  that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines  that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or  (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration,  the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid  arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing  the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any  fact necessary to its defense.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.  (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.)         “If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a  controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending  before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is  pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the  action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order  to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1281.4.)   DISCUSSION               Request for Judicial Notice   Defendant requests judicial notice of the complaint filed by Plaintiff.  The court may take notice of its own file, pursuant to Evid. Code section 452,  subd. (d).    Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.   Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant argues that Plaintiffs consented to the terms of an online  Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”), which included an arbitration  provision. Both the FAA and California law require Plaintiffs to arbitrate this  dispute.   Opposing Party’s Argument   The arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable and  unenforceable. Further, the terms of the MVOA were superseded by other written  agreements.   Reply Arguments   Plaintiff ignores the language of the MVOA, which states that any other  arbitration agreements are overridden by the MVOA. Plaintiff also cites to  cases which are distinguishable from the instant case.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Existence of an Arbitration  Agreement   In support of the motion, Defendant submits the Declaration of Raymond  Kim (“Kim”). Kim declares that when Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle, they  signed a Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”), thereby agreeing to be bound  by its terms, which include an arbitration provision. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.) Prior  to placing the order, Plaintiff had the ability to click on a hyperlink to the  MVOA’s terms and conditions, which would have opened in a new window. (Kim  Decl., ¶ 4.) Further, once executed, the MVOA would be visible on the customer’s  mytesla.com accounts. (Kim Decl., ¶ 4.)   Courts have enforced similar “clickwrap” agreements. “Clickwrap” is  an agreement “in which an internet user accepts a website’s terms of use by  clicking an ‘I agree’ or ‘I accept’ button, with a link to the agreement readily  available.” (Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal. App. 5th 444, 463  (internal quotation marks omitted). “[C]ourts have routinely found clickwrap  agreements enforceable.” (Berman v. Freedom Fin. Network, LLC (9th  Cir. 2022) 30 F.4th 849, 856.)    As with any other contract, however, “clickwrap” agreements must be  supported by mutual assent.  (Sellers, 73 Cal. App. 5th at 461.)  “[I]n order to establish mutual assent for the valid formation of an internet  contract, a provider must first establish the contractual terms were presented  to the consumer in a manner that made it apparent the consumer was assenting to  those very terms when checking a box or clicking on a button.”  (Id.)   The terms of the MVOA indicate that the parties agree to arbitrate any disputes  relating to any aspect of the parties’ relationship. (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.) The  arbitration provision also provides an opt-out option and states that if it is  not exercised, the MVOA’s arbitration provision becomes the controlling  agreement between the parties, overriding any other arbitration agreements.  (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff did not exercise his right to opt-out. (Kim Decl.,  ¶ 5.)   The court finds that with the MVOA, Defendant has met its burden of  proving that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Further, the  language of the provision is broad enough that it covers the dispute at hand. Thus,  the burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish any facts necessary to show that  the agreement should not be enforced.   B.  Grounds for Compelling  Arbitration   1.  Does the Sales Contract  Supersede the MVOA   Plaintiff argues that the Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”)  supersedes the MVOA because it was signed after the MVOA, and the MVOA contradicts  the express written agreement between the parties. Defendant argues in  opposition that the terms of the MVOA’s arbitration provision expressly state  that it overrides any other arbitration agreements, including any arbitration  agreement in a lease or finance contract. (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.)   The court agrees with Defendant that the terms of the MVOA are clear that  the arbitration terms within that document control.  Thus, the relevant arbitration agreement is  contained within the MVOA.   2.  Unconscionability   “Unconscionability has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element,  the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining  power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view  is that procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be  present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a  contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not  be present in the same degree. The more substantively oppressive the contract  term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to  the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” ((Peng v.  First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) “Ordinary contracts of adhesion,  although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally  enforced, contain a degree of procedural unconscionability.” (Baltazar v.  Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.)    Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable  because it is an adhesion contract. Moreover, Plaintiff lacked any substantial  bargaining power because they were forced to simply click through various  prompts related to the purchase of the Vehicle.   The arbitration agreement at hand does contain an opt-out option, which  alone would not insulate it from procedural unconscionability. (Gentry v.  Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 470 (arbitration agreement  had a degree of procedural unconscionability even though there was a 30 day opt  out provision).) However, any degree of procedural unconscionability would be  minimal, as the MVOA is only five pages long, and the arbitration provision is clearly  demarcated and distinct from the rest of the terms. (Kim Decl., Exh. 1, p. 3.)  Further, there are no facts to indicate that there was a great disparity in  bargaining power. In general, customers are free to negotiate with car dealers,  even if those dealers use form contracts. (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co.,  LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 931.) Customers also have the option of  purchasing a vehicle with comparable or superior terms from another dealer, and  thus, “no presumption is warranted that Plaintiff had no choice or power…” (Ibid.)  Here, Plaintiff was not forced to purchase a car from Defendant. Plaintiff had  the option of purchasing a comparable car from another dealer without an  arbitration agreement.   Even if Plaintiff could establish that the MVOA was procedurally  unconscionable, the MVOA is not so one-sided that it would be substantively  unconscionable to enforce it. The MVOA provides that both parties have the  right to compel arbitration. Further, arbitration is to be conducted under the  AAA’s rules, which allow for the selection of a neutral arbiter. Defendant also  agreed to pay arbitration fees for both parties. (Kim Decl., ¶ 7.)   Accordingly, the court finds slight procedural unconscionability but no  substantive unconscionability.   3.  Express Warranties   Plaintiff argues that Defendant cannot enforce the arbitration provision  as their claims are distinct from the MVOA. Plaintiff cites several cases that  Defendant notes are not instructive, as those cases concern the ability of a manufacturer  to enforce an arbitration agreement between purchaser and dealer. Defendant  sells vehicles directly to customers, and any agreements signed are directly  between Defendant and the buyer.   Thus, the cases cited by Plaintiff are not persuasive.   Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel  binding arbitration.   B.  Stay of Proceedings   Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.4 provides that if the court has  ordered the arbitration of a controversy, it “shall, upon motion of a party to  such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration  is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as  the court specifies.”  Pursuant to Section 1281.4, therefore, the Court  stays this action pending conclusion of the arbitration  proceedings.       CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel binding arbitration  is GRANTED. The court STAYS this action pending conclusion of the arbitration  process.   Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.