 Case Number:  24TRCV02385    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Moving  Parties: Defendants  Marriott International, Inc.; Aimbridge Hospitality, LLC; and New  Wynn Li, LP             Responding Party: None   RULING   Having considered  the moving papers, the court rules as follows: the demurrer is OVERRULED in  part and SUSTAINED in part. The motion to strike is GRANTED. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On July 17, 2024, Plaintiffs Kathleen Foster (“Kathleen”); Layla Foster  (“Layla”); Luca Foster (“Luca”); and Tessa Foster ("Tessa”) (collectively,  “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Marriot International, Inc.  (“Marriott”); LAX Hotel Ventures, LLC (“Ventures”); New Wynn LI, LP (“Wynn”);  Uptown LAX LLC (“Uptown”); Perseverance LAX LLC d/b/a Four Points by Sheraton  Los Angeles International Airport (“Sheraton”); and Dornell Williams  (“Williams”) alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent  Hiring, Training, and Supervision; (3) Negligent Failure to Warn; (4) Negligent  Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”); and (5) Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress (“IIED”).   On September 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)  against the same defendants plus Aimbridge Hospitality (“Aimbridge”) and DOES  1-50, inclusive, alleging the same causes of action.   On October 31, 2024, Defendants Marriott; Wynn; and Aimbridge (collectively,  “Moving Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike.    As of December 5, 2024, no opposition has been filed.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On July  18, 2022, Plaintiffs checked into Sheraton, a property owned by the Moving  Defendants. (FAC, ¶¶ 13, 22.) Plaintiffs were placed into a room on the sixth  floor, which had no other guests. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs tried to lock their  hotel room, but the lock did not work. (FAC, ¶ 24.)   On July  19, 2022, Plaintiffs woke up and realized that several of their belongings were  missing. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs attempted to call 911, but the phone cord in  the room was missing. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs asked the front desk employee to  call 911, but the employee refused and handed Kathleen a telephone. (FAC, ¶  24.)   Prior to  Plaintiffs’ stay, the Sheraton at least nine other similar robberies occurred  on the premises within the preceding three months. (FAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants conspired with Williams to place Plaintiffs in an  unsafe room, which allowed Williams to enter Plaintiffs’ room and steal their  belongings. (FAC, ¶ 25.)              LEGAL STANDARD             A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)    Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended  successfully. (Ibid.)   DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Moving Defendants demur to the fourth and fifth causes of action because  Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action  for NIED or IIED. Further, both causes of action are fatally uncertain.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Meet and Confer   Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Motions to strike have a similar meet and  confer requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)   Defense counsel declares that the parties conferred in good faith but  were unable to reach a resolution. The court finds that the parties have  satisfied the meet and confer requirements.   B.  Uncertainty   “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint  is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under  modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.  (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; see Code Civ. Proc. §430.10, subd. (e).) Moreover,  “[a] special demurrer should be overruled where the allegations of the  complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which  he is to meet.” (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643.)   Moving Defendants argue that the fourth and fifth causes of action are  uncertain and rely on conclusory allegations. Moving Defendants also point to  conflicting allegations that there were “9 similar robberies” and “countless”  complaints of robberies. These robberies are not described in any detail.   While the court agrees that the allegations surrounding the other  robberies lack details, the complaint, taken as a whole, is not so  unintelligible that Moving Defendants are not apprised of the issues they are  to meet.   Accordingly, the special demurrer for uncertainty is OVERRULED.   C.  Fourth Cause of Action for NIED   “The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is  typically analyzed by reference to two theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’  theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of emotional  distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The  traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.  Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v.  Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation  marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks omitted.)   A plaintiff may make a bystander NIED claim if he or she is present at  the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs, witnesses the  physical injury of someone closely related to him or her, and suffers emotional  distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness.  (See id.; Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 666.)  To  make a direct victim claim, the emotional distress suffered by the plaintiff  must be a foreseeable consequence of the conduct directed at the plaintiff.  (See Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospital (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 930.)   Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiffs do not meet the “direct victim”  nor “bystander” categories of NIED. Plaintiffs were asleep when the robbery occurred  and were unaware of the complained of conduct. Thus, they do not satisfy the  “awareness” element of bystander NIED. Moving Defendants also argue that  Plaintiffs cannot be direct victims because the California Supreme Court has  only allowed “direct victims” to recover damages in three factual scenarios:  (1) the negligent mishandling of a corpse; (2) the negligent misdiagnosis of a  disease; and (3) the negligent breach of a duty arising out a preexisting  relationship, none of which are present here. Further, the emotional distress  damages that Plaintiffs seek in this cause of action are also sought in their  other three negligence causes of action. On these grounds, the demurrer should  be sustained.   The court agrees that Plaintiffs cannot recover under a bystander NIED  theory, as Plaintiffs had no awareness of the injury-causing conduct. However,  the court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that they are direct  victims. Plaintiffs allege that as innkeepers, Moving Defendants had a duty to keep  the premises safe for their guests. Moving Defendants breached this duty by  placing Plaintiffs in a room without a functioning lock or phone, which allowed  a trespasser to enter Plaintiffs’ room and steal their belongings. Given these  allegations, emotional distress of the hotel guests is a foreseeable  consequence of conduct directed at plaintiffs.   At this stage of the proceedings, these allegations are sufficient to  maintain an NIED cause of action.   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Moving Defendants’ demurrer.   C.  Fifth Cause of Action for IIED   “The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress  are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of  causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional  distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;  and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the  defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as  to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Christensen  v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903 (internal quotations omitted).)  “It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be  conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of  whom the defendant is aware.” (Id.)    “A defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed  all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Jackson v.  Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 234, 257 (internal citations and  quotations omitted).) “‘On the spectrum of offensive conduct, outrageous  conduct is that which is the most extremely offensive.’” (Id. (quoting Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1116, 1129).)  A  determination of the outrageousness of the conduct requires “a case-by-case  appraisal of conduct filtered through the prism of the appraiser’s values,  sensitivity threshold, and standards of civility.” (Yurick, supra,  209 Cal.App.3d at 1128.) It is more “intuitive than analytical.” (Id.)  The duration of the emotional distress is a factor to be considered in  determining its severity. (Fletcher v. Western Nat’l Life Ins. Co., 10  Cal.App.3d 376, 398.)    Moving Defendants demur to this cause of action as Plaintiffs only make  conclusory allegations. In order to state a claim for IIED, a plaintiff must  state with specificity the outrageous acts and plead specific facts that  establish severe emotional distress. Further, a plaintiff must show that the  defendant intended to cause harm. Here, Plaintiffs only make conclusory allegations  that they experienced “serious mental and emotional trauma.”   The gravamen of Plaintiffs’ IIED claim against Moving Defendants is their  alleged ratification of their employees’ acts and failure to remedy a known  security risk. Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants had notice of numerous crimes on their property. Thus,  the failure to take extra security precautions was willful. However, the  complaints cited by Plaintiffs provide an insufficient factual basis for  imputing notice on Moving Defendants. Several of the reviews are from anonymous  guests who stayed at the Sheraton years before Plaintiffs’ visit. The reviewer  closest in time to Plaintiffs’ stay accuses the hotel staff of committing  robbery because they erroneously charged his credit card. These reviews do not put  Moving Defendants on notice that trespassers routinely accessed guests’ rooms  to steal their belongings.    Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged that Moving  Defendants acted intentionally or with reckless disregard of the probability of  causing emotional distress. At most, Plaintiffs’ claims sound of negligence.   Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED.   D.  Motion to Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436 subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading  not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or  an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436 subd. (b).) The grounds for  moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of  which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §  437.)    Moving Defendants seek to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages  on the basis that Plaintiffs failed to adequately plead IIED or any other  oppressive, malicious, or fraudulent conduct. Further, Moving Defendants are  corporate entities and cannot be liable for the conduct of its employees  without facts showing ratification or authorization.    In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint  must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll. Hosp.,  Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) “Malice is defined in  the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the  plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.  at 725.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and  unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §  3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or  concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the  part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights  or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)    Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6  Cal.4th 965, 1004 explained that “punitive damages sometimes may be assessed in  unintentional tort actions.” Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d  890, 894-895 noted that “something more than the mere commission of a tort is  always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of  aggravation or outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive  on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of  the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”  Indeed, “punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to  levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent  citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135  Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (internal quotation omitted).)    As discussed above, Plaintiffs fail to adequately allege that Moving  Defendants acted intentionally or in conscious disregard of their safety.  Further, Plaintiffs do not allege any oppressive or fraudulent conduct.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS the motion to strike punitive damages.   E.  Leave to Amend   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of  successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349  [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any  reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden  is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)   Though Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition, California courts liberally  allow amendments at any stage of the proceedings. (See Berman v. Bromberg  (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.; Klopstock v. Superior Court in and for City  and County of San Francisco (1941) 17 Cal.2d 13, 19-20.)   Accordingly, the court GRANTS leave to amend.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is OVERRULED in part and GRANTED in  part. The motion to strike is GRANTED. The court GRANTS Plaintiffs leave to  amend.   Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.