  Case Number:  20STCV21303    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  KENNY KAPOOR, et al., Plaintiffs,  vs. ZALFA HALABY, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  20STCV21303   Hearing Date:  June 18, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ADJUDICATION FILED BY DEFENDANT FIRST AMERICAN TITLE COMPANY TO THE SAC FILED BY THE ELKINS PLAINTIFFS ON MAY 12, 2023FATC’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On May 12, 2023, Zalfa Halaby Elkins (Z. Elkins), Charles Elkins (C. Elkins), and Rez Properties, LLC (Texas) (Plaintiffs) filed their Second Amended Complaint (SAC).On June 2, 2023, Defendant First American Title Company (FATC) filed this motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication as to the SAC filed by the Elkins Plaintiffs.On May 9, 2024, the Elkins Plaintiffs filed an opposition.On June 13, 2024, FATC filed a reply.DISCUSSIONI. LEGAL STANDARDA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) On a plaintiff’s motion, the plaintiff must present evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than not. (Id. at p.845.) The plaintiff meets his burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if he has proved each element on that cause of action. (Id. at p.849.) The burden then shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense. (Id.)“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) II. OBJECTIONSThe Elkins Plaintiffs object to the evidence presented by FATC, specifically to portions of the Declaration of Eugene Kim. The following objections are SUSTAINED: 1 (although the document described is attached), 3 (only as to Kim’s legal conclusions).The following objections are OVERRULED: 2, 4, 5, 6, 7.III. ANALYSISFATC moves for summary judgment as to the third cause of action for negligence, the only cause of action in which it is named.“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.)Here, FATC moves for summary judgment on the grounds that it owed no duty to Plaintiffs. FATC argues that (1) Plaintiffs lack standing to assert a cause of action for negligence, (2) FATC had no duty and breached no duty to confirm whether Clifford Sullivan was authorized to sign a quitclaim deed on behalf of Rez Properties, (3) FATC had no duty and breached no duty to confirm whether Rez Properties was legally capable of conveying real property. This action concerns a dispute over a property located at 29321 Hacienda Ranch Court, Valencia, CA 91354 (the Hacienda Property). Zalfa Halaby Elkins and/or Charles Elkins had an ownership interest in a real estate development company, South Shore LLC, at all times relevant to the SAC. (SAC ¶¶ 5, 16.) In 2020, when Plaintiffs and Kapoor elected to dissolve South Shore, they also agreed that South Shore would convey the Hacienda Property to, REZ Properties, LLC, a Texas Limited Company (REZ-TX), an entity owned by Plaintiffs. (UMF Nos. 5-7.) Academy Escrow incorrectly conveyed the property to an entity of the same name in California (REZ-CA). (UMF Nos. 8-10.) At the time of the transfer, REZ-CA was suspended by the Franchise Tax Board (FTB). (UMF No. 11.) Sullivan, the purported owner of REZ-CA, then quitclaimed the Hacienda Property back to South Shore. (SAC ¶22.) In May 2021, FATC opened an escrow sale for the Hacienda Property from South Shore to Sullivan. (UMF No. 17.) By that point, Plaintiffs had paid an advance of $350,000 to pay off the note on the Hacienda Property. (SAC ¶24.) The parties do not dispute that these events led to FATC opening escrow as to the sale of the Hacienda Property. The parties dispute whether FATC had a duty not to allow the sale to clear escrow and whether FATC breached that duty by failing to confirm whether REZ-CA was capable of conveying real property.1. Whether FATC owed Plaintiffs a duty of care“It is indisputably true that ‘[a]n escrow holder is the limited agent and fiduciary of all parties to an escrow’ and that as such it has ‘a fiduciary duty to communicate to his principal knowledge acquired in the course of his agency with respect to material facts which might affect the principal’s decision as to a pending transaction. . . .’” (Siegel v. Fidelity Nat. Title Ins. Co. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1193-94 (quoting Hannon v. Western Title Ins. Co. (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1122, 1128)).) “‘However, it is equally true that ‘the agency which exists (and the obligations pursuant thereto) is a limited one.’” (Id.) “‘If the several escrow instructions create in the escrow holder an agency, it must be one limiting the obligations of the escrow holder to each party to the escrow in accordance with the instructions given by such party . . . .’” (Id.) “‘[I]t is generally held that no liability attaches to the escrow holder for his failure to do something not required by the terms of the escrow or for a loss incurred while obediently following his escrow instructions.’” (Id.) “An escrow holder is an agent and fiduciary of the parties to the escrow.”  (Summit Financial Holdings, Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711. ) (Summit) “The agency created by the escrow is limited—limited to the obligation of the escrow holder to carry out the instructions of each of the parties to the escrow.”  (Id.)  With respect to the scope of an escrow holder’s fiduciary duties, “[a]bsent clear evidence of fraud, an escrow holder’s obligations are limited to compliance with the parties’ instructions.”  (Id.)  “[A]n escrow holder ‘has no general duty to police the affairs of its depositors.’”  (Id.)  Where a plaintiff is a third person not in privity with a defendant, the so-called Biakanja factors described in Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d647, 650 may be used to determine the defendant had a duty to exercise reasonable care to avoid negligently causing economic loss to others with whom they were not in privity. The Biakanja factors have been applied to determine whether an escrow agent owes a duty of care to a third party. (Summit at p.715.) The analysis involves the balancing of various factors set forth below.1. The extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff;2. The foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff;3. The degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury;4. The closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered;5. The moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct; and 6. The policy of preventing future harm. Here, Plaintiffs were not parties to the escrow. The Escrow Officer responsible for the transaction, Eugene Kim, testifies that FATC was instructed that the seller was South Shore and the Buyer was Sullivan. (Kim Decl., ¶4.) Because Plaintiffs were not involved in the transaction, they were not parties to the escrow. Thus, the Court must proceed with an analysis of the Biakanja factors.1. The extent to which the transaction was intended to affect PlaintiffsOn reply, FATC focuses primarily on the first factor, the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect Plaintiffs. (Reply., p. 16.) FATC argues that the transaction was not intended to affect Plaintiffs because the purpose of the transaction was to assist with the sale of the Hacienda Property from South Shore to Sullivan. FATC alleges that Plaintiffs should recover from Kapoor instead because their injury was caused by Kapoor misrepresenting that she was authorized to act on South Shore’s behalf.FATC does not present evidence demonstrating that it was not aware of the dispute over the Hacienda Property at the time that it closed escrow. Kim’s declaration merely states that he relied on representations from Kapoor and Sullivan that they were authorized to enter into this transaction. (Kim Decl., ¶10.) Additionally, Kim was not instructed to investigate whether REZ-CA was capable of conveying an interest in the property or whether Kapoor was authorized to act on South Shore’s behalf. (Id., ¶¶11-12.) At no point does Kim state he had no knowledge that Plaintiffs were attempting to purchase the Hacienda Property and that they had paid a $350,000 advance to Fay Servicing. It would not be reasonable to conclude, as a matter of law, that this transaction was not intended to affect Plaintiffs. It is reasonable to infer that Kim, as the Escrow Officer responsible for facilitating Sullivan’s purchase, would have been in communication with Fay Servicing regarding the total payoff amount and any credit to be applied to that amount. If FATC knew of the parties’ competing efforts to purchase the Hacienda Property, the effect of the transaction would have also been to deprive Plaintiffs of the advance they paid and to deprive them of the Hacienda Property. If FATC knew of the dispute, this factor weighs in favor of a finding that FATC owed Plaintiffs a duty of care.2. The foreseeability of the harm to PlaintiffsAs discussed above, FATC provides no evidence that it was unaware of the dispute between Plaintiffs and Kapoor over the Hacienda Property. If FATC knew of the dispute, it would be foreseeable that Plaintiffs would lose the $350,000 advance they paid toward the purchase and that Plaintiffs would lose the Hacienda Property.3. The degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injuryThe third factor weighs in favor of a finding that FATC owed Plaintiffs a duty of care. There is no question that Plaintiffs lost the Hacienda Property despite their agreement with Kapoor to have the property conveyed to REZ-TX. FATC does not dispute that Plaintiffs and Kapoor agreed to give Plaintiffs the Hacienda Property after they decided to dissolve South Shore.4. The closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury sufferedThe fourth factor also depends on whether FATC knew of the parties’ dispute over the Hacienda Property. Kim testifies and FATC argues that they did not investigate whether Sullivan and Kapoor were authorized to act on behalf of REZ-CA and South Shore respectively because they were not instructed to and they had no duty to. (Kim Decl., ¶10.) If Kim had investigated further, he would have discovered facts that REZ-CA was a suspended corporation or at least that Plaintiffs were also owners of South Shore who were also attempting to purchase the Hacienda Property. Thus, Kim’s failure to investigate further caused FATC to close escrow and allow Sullivan to purchase the Hacienda Property, injuring Plaintiffs who were competing to purchase the property. 5. The moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct; and The policy of preventing future harm. Finally, the fifth and sixth factors also depend on whether FATC knew of the parties’ dispute over the Hacienda Property. If FATC knew of a dispute involving the purchase of the Hacienda Property and yet proceeded, the loss that ensued might have been easily prevented had FATC investigated whether Sullivan and Kapoor were authorized to enter into this transaction before closing escrow. A triable issue of material fact remains over whether FATC knew of the parties’ competing efforts to purchase the Hacienda Properties. If FATC knew of the dispute, the Biakanja factors would weigh in favor of a finding that FATC owed a duty of care to prevent Plaintiffs’ harm, even if they were not parties to the escrow. FATC fails to meet its burden of proving that FATC as a matter of law owed no duty of care in this particular factual scenario. Even if FATC did meet its burden on summary judgment, Plaintiffs provide evidence that Kim did not remember whether he knew of the lawsuit pending over the Hacienda Property. (Kim Depo., 31:15-25, pdf p.78.) However, he knew of the lis pendens which had been recorded on the Hacienda Property, meaning he would have at least been on notice that there was a dispute over title. (Id.) FATC also argued that it owed no duty to Plaintiffs as a title insurer because the grant deed was not prepared by FATC, but by a different entity, meaning FATC never issued title insurance for this transaction. However, even if FATC did not provide title insurance, FATC may have had a duty as an escrow agent to prevent Plaintiffs’ harm.FATC’s arguments that Plaintiffs lack standing to bring a claim for negligence likewise fails because there is a triable issue of material fact over whether the Biakanja factors would weigh in favor of a finding that FATC owed Plaintiffs a duty of care. Summary judgment is denied on this ground. 2. Whether FATC breached its duty of careFATC also argues it did not breach a duty of care to Plaintiffs because it reasonably relied on representations by Sullivan that he was an authorized signer for REZ-CA. Additionally, FATC argues that it was aware of no evidence that Sullivan was committing fraud. (Motion, p. 19.) However, FATC refers to UMF Nos. 42-46, which merely state that FATC was never instructed to investigate Sullivan. As discussed above, there is a triable issue of material fact over whether FATC knew of the parties’ dispute over the Hacienda Property. If FATC had known of the dispute, it would have known of Plaintiffs’ allegations that the property was mistakenly transferred to REZ-CA and that Sullivan had fraudulently conveyed the property back to South Shore. Because a triable issue of material fact remains over whether FATC knew of the parties’ dispute over the Hacienda Property, FATC fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether it breached a duty of care to Plaintiffs.  FATC’s motion for summary judgment is denied on this ground.3. Whether FATC is liable under any conspiracy theoryIn opposition, Plaintiffs argue that FATC failed to address whether it was liable under any conspiracy theory. However, the issue of whether FATC conspired with other Defendants to commit negligence is not dispositive of any cause of action. Summary judgment or adjudication may only be granted if the motion completely resolves a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty unless the parties jointly stipulate to adjudication of an issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §§437c(f)(1), 437c(t); See's Candy Shops, Inc. v Superior Court (2012) 210 CA4th 889, 899–900.) Here, the parties have not agreed to adjudicate the issue of whether FATC is liable under a conspiracy theory. The Court declines to rule on this issue.4. Plaintiffs’ request for a continuancePlaintiffs request a continuance on the grounds that Plaintiffs have been unable to take the deposition of FATC’s Title Officer who handled the Sullivan escrow.  A party opposing a motion for summary judgment may file a declaration to continue the motion with its opposition or by ex parte motion before the opposition to the motion is due. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (h); Ambrose v. Michelin North America, Inc. (2005) 134 CA4th 1350, 1353.) The party must request the continuance through affidavits or declarations stating facts to justify opposition may exist. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (h).) “To be entitled to a continuance, the party opposing the motion for summary judgment must show that its proposed discovery would have led to facts essential to justify opposition.” (Scott v. CIBA Vision Corp. (1995) 38 CA4th 307, 325-326.)Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel argues that this matter should be continued because he has been unable to depose FATC’s Title Officer. (Gerber Decl., ¶15.) Although he noticed the deposition months ago, Counsel has been unable to schedule the deposition due to scheduling issues. (Id., ¶16.) The Title Officer’s testimony is material to Plaintiffs’ opposition because Kim testified he had no knowledge of several topics because they were the Title Officer’s responsibility. (Id.) The parties have had ample time to complete discovery in this matter. Additionally, as discussed above, FATC’s motion was denied because it failed to meet its burden on summary judgment. Thus, further deposition would not affect the outcome of this motion. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance is denied.DATED: June 18, 2024                                                                        ___________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 