 Case Number:  23STCV11253    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  SAEED MASJEDI, Plaintiff,vs. ELIZABETH VALDEZ,Defendant.  Case No.:  23STCV11253 Hearing Date:  June 18, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION TO DISMISS FILED BY CROSS-DEFENDANT SAEED MASJEDIThe motion is denied.Cross-Defendant Masjedi is ordered to file an answer to the cross-complaint within 15 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) and violations of Civ. Code, section 1942.5(d). Plaintiff alleges that he was Defendant’s tenant. In June 2022, when Plaintiff notified Defendant of a leak in his sink that required repair, Defendant began engaging in retaliatory conduct which caused him emotional distress.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Saeed Masjedi filed his Complaint against Defendant Elizabeth Valdez.On February 2, 2024, Valdez filed a Cross-Complaint against Saeed Masjedi.On May 23, 2024, Saeed Masjedi filed this motion to dismiss.DISCUSSION Cross-Defendant Saeed Masjedi moves to dismiss the Cross-Complaint filed by Elizabeth Vasquez on the grounds that (1) Valdez’s claims are barred by litigation privilege and (2) Valdez’s claims are subject to dismissal under the anti-SLAPP statute Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16. Thus, although styled as a motion to dismiss, this motion is a demurrer and a special motion to strike. A demurrer to a complaint or cross-complaint must be filed within thirty days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.40(a).) A defendant must file any special motion to strike within 60 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(f).) Here, Valdez’s Cross-Complaint was served on Masjedi via substituted service on March 21, 2024. Service was deemed complete on March 31, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., section 415.20(a).) Masjedi’s deadline to file a demurrer was April 30, 2024. Because this motion was filed in May 2024, the motion is untimely as to the allegations that the action is barred by litigation privilege.Masjedi’s anti-SLAPP motion to strike, however, is timely because his deadline to file this motion was May 30, 2024. The Court will rule on the special motion to strike.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides that “[a] cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b).) Such a motion involves a two-step analysis, in which the court must first determine whether a movant “has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity ...” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 712, quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If the court so finds, it must then examine whether the respondent has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Taus, supra, 40 Cal.4th at p. 712.) In determining whether the respondent has carried this burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(2); see Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)ObjectionsValdez objects to Masjedi’s anti-SLAPP motion to strike. The Court rules as follows:1. Failure to provide mandatory factual declarations in support of SLAPP motion.Although the Court is required to consider affidavits stating facts upon which liability or a defense is based, there is no law that a Court may not consider motions which lack supporting evidence. The objection is OVERRULED.2. Failure to provide mandatory notice to Judicial Council upon filing a SLAPP motion.Again, although Masjedi and Valdez were required to file notices to the Judicial Council under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(j)(2) , there is no law that a Court may not consider motions which lack the required notices. However, Masjedi is ordered to file the required notice.3. Meet and Confer is not required prior to filing a SLAPP motion.Although Valdez is correct that the parties are not required to meet and confer prior to the filing of a SLAPP motion, the lack of a meet and confer was not pertinent to the Court’s analysis. The Court declines to rule on this objection.4. A disbarred attorney, Martin Reiner (Bar No. 144024), should not be allowed to assist the moving party at the hearing of the SLAPP motion. (Business & Professions Code section 6125).Reiner signed the proof of service for this motion. Additionally, Masjedi represented that he had an attorney in an email to another tenant. (Vergara Decl., Exh. 1.) However, there is no evidence that Reiner wrote the motion at issue here or that Reiner was the attorney mentioned in Masjedi’s email.   Discussion1. Protected ActivityMasjedi alleges that Valdez’s Cross-Complaint is based on Masjedi’s conduct which is protected by the First Amendment’s right to freedom of speech and freedom to petition. Moving parties have the initial burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) Specifically, courts decide whether moving parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under the Constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 671; Equilon Ent. v. Consumer Cause (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67; Gov. Gray Davis Committee v. Amer. Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 458-59; CCP §425.16(e).) Moving parties can satisfy their burden by showing (1) statements made before legislative, executive or judicial proceedings, or made in connection with matters being considered in such proceedings, or (2) statements made in a public forum, or other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional rights of petition or free speech, in connection with issues of public interest. (CCP §425.16(e); Equilon Ent., LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66.) “A claim arises from protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.) “‘[T] defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’”  (Id. at 1063 (quoting City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78) (emphasis in original).) “‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’”  Id. (quoting Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89).) “Instead, the focus is on determining what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.’” (Id. (quoting Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 92) (alteration in original).) “‘The only means specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . . .’”  (Id. (quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66) (emphasis in original).)  “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.”  (Id.)“Allegations of a protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 395.) The legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a claim for relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (Id.) In cases involving allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of prevailing on any claim for relief based on allegations of protected activity. (Id.) Neither the form of the complaint nor the primary right at stake is determinative. (Id.) Here, the Cross-Complaint brings three causes of action for elder abuse, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. It alleges that in March 2014, Valdez and Masjedi entered into a written month-to-month rental agreement. (Cross-Compl., ¶5.) Masjedi made unwelcome advances towards Valdez, eventually becoming aggressive. (Id., ¶6.) After Valdez received complaints from a neighbor and a Homeowners Association that there was water leakage coming from the property, Valdez requested permission from Masjedi to inspect the property and discovered a water filter pipe had been improperly installed on the property. (Id., ¶7.) Masjedi also switched out her refrigerator for a used refrigerator with incorrectly installed water lines, changed the locks on the unit without Valdez’s permission, and tampered with electrical wires. (Id.) Masjedi became aggressive and did not allow Valdez to make repairs. (Id.) Valdez had no choice but to commence eviction proceedings. (Id., ¶8.) Masjedi thereafter began writing threating letters to Valdez, telephoning her at all hours, yelling at her, and berating her. (Id., ¶9.) Masjedi then sent a threatening email to a tenant in the adjoining unit telling her not to interfere with the litigation. (Id., ¶12.) After Valdez obtained judgment against Masjedi, Masjedi continued his aggression against Valdez, pulled out electrical wires from the property, cut the pipes under the kitchen sink, took the bulbs from the unit, failed to return the keys to the unit, and vandalized the bedroom window. (Id., ¶13.)Each of Plaintiff’s causes of action are based on allegations that Masjedi’s conduct caused Plaintiff emotional and psychological harm. Thus, the issue is whether Masjedi’s conduct damaging Valdez’s unit, making harassing phone calls to Valdez, and sending a threatening email to prevent a witness from participating in litigation constitute protected activity.The only means by which a defendant may satisfy the first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct falls within one of the four categories described in Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e). (City of Montebello v. Vasquez (2016) 1 Cal.5th 409, 422.) The section provides that an act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue includes:1. Any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law2. Any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law3. Any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest4. Any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.Here, Masjedi’s alleged conduct making harassing phone calls to Valdez, and damaging the unit Valdez rented to him do not fall within the scope of any of these four categories. This conduct does not become protected activity merely because it took place after Valdez filed her unlawful detainer action or after Masjedi commenced his own lawsuit. Because these acts are not among the acts described in Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e), they are not protected activities.With respect to the email Masjedi sent his neighbor threatening her not to participate in litigation between Valdez and Masjedi, this communication is not protected activity because the activity is illegal as a matter of law.The anti-SLAPP statute does not protect activity which is illegal as a matter of law. (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 317.)Penal Code, section 136.1 provides that any person who, among other things, knowingly and maliciously attempts to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law is guilty of a public offense. Here, the Cross-Complaint alleges Masjedi emailed a neighbor stating in the email that “I do not want you to get involve (sic) in anyway (sic) in our litigation, or you will be part of the litigation and that is not what you want. I have a very good attorney. I do not want you (sic) spy or pass on any information to her or testify on her behalf. Enjoy your happy life and do not make it complicated for nothing. Litigation is costly and unpredictable and (sic) dangerous. . .” (Cross-Compl., ¶12.) In opposition, the neighbor, Maryjoy Vergara, testifies that she did receive the email described above and attaches a copy of the email. (Vergara Decl., ¶3, Exh. 1.) The language in the email was intended to dissuade Vergara from testifying or appearing in this litigation because Masjedi specifically threatened Vergara not to be involved in the litigation in any way, including testifying on Valdez’s behalf. Masjedi does not dispute that he sent this email. Masjedi cannot show that this email was not a threat against a witness which is illegal under Penal Code, section 136.1. Thus, the email to Vergara was not protected activity because it is illegal as a matter of law. The Cross-Complaint does not arise from protected activity. Masjedi fails to satisfy the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis. Therefore, Masjedi’s special motion to strike is denied.Attorney’s FeesAlthough Valdez requests an award of attorney’s fees, Valdez fails to provide evidence or argument pertaining to fees. If Valdez wishes to seek fees, Valdez must move separately for fees. DATED: June 18, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court