 Case Number:  23STCV12816    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  DIVINA VILLEDA,Plaintiff,vs. VILMA HOOD, et al.,Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV12816 Hearing Date:  June 18, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE FILED BY DEFENDANT JAN TARBLEThis matter is continued to allow the personal representative of decedent Jan Tarble to substitute in as a Defendant in this matter.The parties are ordered to appear at the hearing (remotely or in person) to set a continued hearing date.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for wrongful termination, violations of the Labor Code, false imprisonment, intentional interference with prospective economic relations, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiffs allege that they were working as Defendants’ caretakers. Plaintiffs witnessed Defendant Hood abusing her wife, Defendant Tarble. After Plaintiff Villeda reported the abuse to adult protective services, a social worker visited Defendants’ home to interview Tarble and left a business card after no one answered the door. In May 2022, Villeda reported the abuse to police. A social worker again stated she wanted to interview Tarble. After Tarble fell and broke her hip, Villeda told a nurse at the hospital where she was being treated about Hood’s abuse. Villeda reported the abuse to the hospital’s social worker who stated she would report the abuse to Adult Protective Services. In April 2022, just before Tarble was to be discharged from the hospital, another social worker left his card at her house. Another social worker interviewed Tarble on August 22, 2022. The next day, Hood yelled at Villeda, accusing her of calling Adult Protective Services. In September 2022, police officers and the social worker who interviewed Tarble interviewed Tarble again and then interviewed Villeda. Villeda made a statement that Tarble fell and broke her hip because she was drunk after Hood ordered others to give her alcohol. Defendant Nalayeh attempted to intimidate Villeda into changing her statement. Defendants terminated Villeda for reporting the elder abuse. After Villeda was terminated, Defendant Hood falsely imprisoned Gamboa by locking the gate of the house and leaving Gamboa locked in. Gamboa was terminated in October 2022.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Divina Villeda and Consuela “Lucy” Gamboa filed their Complaint against Vilma Hood, Jan Tarble, Dega Nalayeh, Radostina Videnova, and San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust Company, as trustee of the Jan Tarble Trust (“Trust”).On December 15, 2023, Vilma Hood filed a Cross-Complaint.On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.On March 5, 2024, Defendant Jan Tarble filed this demurrer and motion to strike. On May 9, 2024, Tarble’s counsel filed a notice stating Tarble passed away on May 1, 2024.On May 28, 2024, Tarble’s former counsel filed a notice of stay of proceedings as to Tarble.On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration requesting that the Court take the demurrer and motion to strike off calendar. DISCUSSION Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration requesting that the demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendant Jan Tarble be taken off calendar on the grounds that the demurrer is moot now that Tarble is deceased. (Hakim Decl., ¶3.) An action does not abate upon the death of a party. (Prob. Code, section 377.21.) On motion, a court may allow an action to proceed against a decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest. (Prob. Code, section 377.41.) Although judgment may not be rendered for or against a deceased person, some judgments are allowed to stand if the error is harmless. (Sacks v. FSR Brokerage, Inc. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 950, 957.) This is particularly true if the decedent’s estate’s interests are not adequately represented. (Id at p.958.) However, a proceeding which continues against a deceased person is still irregular. (Id., ¶957.) Here, Defendant Tarble passed away on May 1, 2024. Thus, this action may only proceed against Tarble’s personal representative or successor in interest. Because no such party has been substituted in as a defendant, proceedings cannot continue against Tarble. Tarble’s counsel represented that he cannot take the demurrer off calendar because he no longer has a client. (Hakim Decl., ¶5(1).) Tarble’s counsel is correct because an attorney-client relationship terminates upon the client’s death and the attorney loses authority to act on the decedent’s behalf. (Swartfager v. Wells (1942) 53 Cal.App.2d 522, 528.) Tarble’s counsel represented that San Pasqual will be substituting in as Tarble’s personal representative and there is a petition pending to appoint Pasqual as Tarble’s personal representative. Because Tarble’s counsel is unable to act on Tarble’s behalf, the Court will continue this motion until Pasqual is substituted in as a defendant. Although Plaintiff’s counsel argues the demurrer is moot, there is no authority to support this assertion. Rather, the action does not abate by Tarble’s death. Although the action may not proceed without a proper substitution, Plaintiff’s claims against Tarble may survive her death. If Tarble’s motion was taken off calendar, Tarble’s estate’s interests would not be adequately represented because the estate would lose its opportunity to demur to the Complaint. Thus, the motion should not be taken off calendar. Instead, Tarble’s personal representative should have the opportunity to substitute in as a defendant.DATED: June 18, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court