  Case Number:  23STCV10179    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  76  
            Plaintiff
alleges Defendants have designed, manufactured and sold defective windows,
glass doors, and glass railings.
            Defendant
PRL Glass Systems, Inc. demurs to the Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant PRL Glass Systems, Inc.’s demurrer to the first
through fifth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
Defendant is ordered to answer the Complaint within 10 days.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Celeste S. Del Rio reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied
the meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
Defendant
PRL Glass Systems, Inc. demurs to the Complaint as follows: 
1.         First
Cause of Action (Strict Liability); Second Cause of Action (Negligence); Third
Cause of Action (Breach of Express Warranties); Fourth Cause of Action (Breach
of Implied Warranties); Fifth Cause of Action (Negligence Per Se / Violation of
Statute.
            Defendant argues that these causes
of action are uncertain because Plaintiff does not allege when Defendant PRL
Glass Systems, Inc.’s conduct or Plaintiff’s injuries occurred.
            A
demurrer for uncertainty is properly sustained where the complaint is so vague
or uncertain that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., when the
defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial, supra, ¶ 7:85.) 
Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and strictly construed “because
ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of discovery.” (Lickiss
v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)           
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges in generalized terms that: 
9. The
windows, glass doors, and glass railings purchased and installed in the
Plaintiff’s SUBJECT PROPERTY were defectively designed, constructed,
manufactured and installed as set forth herein. 
These defects resulted in damage to the SUBJECT PROPERTY, its systems
and components thereto, and personal property and made it so the Plaintiff was
forced to live in alternative housing before replacement was accomplished. 
10.
Plaintiff purchased windows, glass doors, and glass railings designed,
manufactured, constructed and sold by Defendants.  These windows, glass railings, and glass
doors had defects and leaked water, resulting in damage to Plaintiff’s products
and SUBJECT PROPERTY, and were not sufficiently wind resistant. Plaintiff is
informed and believes and thereon alleges that DEFENDANTS have made continuing
and ongoing repairs to the Plaintiff’s windows and SUBJECT PROPERTY to attempt
to fix the problems.  Plaintiff has
relied upon DEFENDANTS’ attempts to fix the problems.
     (Complaint, ¶¶ 9, 10.)
            No further details are provided in
connection with each cause of action.
            Nonetheless, Defendant has
sufficient information to fashion discovery responses to elicit the information
it seeks as argued in the demurrer: when Defendant designed or manufactured the
fixtures installed in Plaintiff’s residents, when these were purchased and
installed, when the damages to property occurred and when they were discovered.

As such, the demurrer to the first through fifth causes of
action is OVERRULED.  Defendant is
ordered to answer the Complaint within 10 days.
 