  Case Number:  21STCV43384    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  B  
Hearing Date: October 16, 2024
Re: 21STCV43384 Krystyn Chavez vs Jose Torres Carballo, et al.

 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiff Krystyn
Chavez’s DOE amendment is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 24, 2021, Plaintiff Krystyn Chavez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Jose Torres Carballo
(“Carballo”), Retail Baking LLC (“Retail Baking”), Wholesome Melrose Baking
Inc. (“Melrose Baking”), Mehran Termechi (“Termechi”), and DOES 1 to 50
alleging two causes of action: (1) motor vehicle negligence; and (2) general
negligence. Plaintiff alleges she was walking her bicycle across an
intersection when Carballo, within the scope of his employment under Retail
Baking, Melrose Baking, and Termechi, struck Plaintiff in the crosswalk.
Plaintiff claims property damages and serious injuries as a result.
 
On June 7, 2024, the case was reassigned to the
Honorable Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East,
effective June 24, 2024.
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment
to complaint identifying DOE 1 as Breadbox Co.
 
On August 12, 2024, Defendants Carballo,
Melrose Baking, and Termechi (herein “Defendants”) filed the instant motion to
quash Plaintiff’s Doe amendment.
 
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed their
opposition.
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendants replied to
Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
A non-jury trial is scheduled for December 10,
2024.
 
PROCEDURAL ISSUES
 
On August 1, 2024, Defendants objected to Plaintiff’s
Doe amendment because Plaintiff mislabeled the case number and, as a result, filed
their amendment in a different, dormant case.
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served
upon Defendants a notice of errata correcting the case number. Additionally,
Plaintiff served their July 11, 2024 amendment upon Defendants at the time of its
filing. Accordingly, the Court does not consider this error as grounds for
granting Defendants’ motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Improper service of a
defendant under [CCP § 474] may be attacked by a motion to quash. (Optical Surplus, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228
Cal.App.3d 776, 782-783 [trial court is required, as a matter of law, to grant
motion to quash service of summons when party is wrongly served as DOE defendant].)
“If the terms of . . . section 474 have not been complied with, the purported
defendant has not been named as such in the complaint. A service upon one not
named in a complaint does not confer jurisdiction to proceed upon the complaint
against him, and a motion to quash is proper.” (Maier
Brewing Co. v. Flora Crane Service, Inc. (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d 873,
875.)
 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name
of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint . . . and such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when
his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly . . . ” (CCP § 474.) A plaintiff must be truly ignorant of the
defendant’s identity or the facts to state a claim against that defendant and a
plaintiff that does not meet the ignorance requirement cannot use the Doe
amendment procedure of § 474. (Woo v. Superior Court (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 169, 177.) If the identity ignorance requirement is not met, a new
defendant cannot be added by Doe amendment after the statute of limitations has
expired, even if the new defendant cannot establish prejudice from the delay. (Ibid.)  Whether
the plaintiff’s ignorance was due to misinformation or negligence is
irrelevant. (Balon v Drost (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 483, 488.)
 
The phrase
“ignorant of the name of a defendant” is broadly interpreted to mean ignorance
of the defendant’s identity and ignorance of the facts giving rise to a cause
of action against the defendant. (San Diego Navy Broadway Complex Coalition
v. California Coastal Com. (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 563, 579.)
 
In addition to the ignorance requirement,
there is an implicit requirement in § 474 that a plaintiff does not
“unreasonably delay” the filing of a Doe amendment after learning the
defendant’s identity. (A.N., a Minor v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058, 1065-1066.) A defendant named by DOE amendment “may challenge
the amendment by way of an evidence-based motion, which argues that the
plaintiff ‘unreasonably delayed’ his or her filing of the challenged amendment”
and “‘unreasonable delay’ includes a prejudice element, which requires a showing
by the defendant that he or she would suffer prejudice from plaintiff’s delay
in filing the Doe amendment.” (A.N., supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at
1066-1067.) The trial court has broad discretion in deciding whether to permit
amendment and may consider whether the pleading states facts which could have
been plead earlier and whether the plaintiff establishes a reasonable excuse for
the delay. (Ibid. at 1067.)  
 
An order granting a motion to quash
based on the failure to comply with § 474 “does not necessarily end [the Doe
defendant’s] involvement in [the] litigation. . .. A motion to quash service
challenges only the lack of jurisdiction over the person and, when ruling on
such a motion, the trial court is not permitted to determine the merits of the
complaint.” (McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy
& Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 375-376.) After the motion to
quash is granted, the plaintiff is not precluded from amending the complaint to
join the Doe defendant as a named defendant and to include causes of action for
which the statute of limitations has not run. (Ibid.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Summary of Arguments
 
Defendants move to quash
Plaintiff’s Doe amendment naming Breadbox Co. as a defendant to this action on
the grounds that (1) Breadbox Co. did not exist until after the underlying
incident, and therefore has no involvement in the facts giving rise to it, and
(2) Plaintiff unreasonably delayed their amendment to the prejudice of
Defendants. (Victor Decl. ¶ 5; Exh. D [Breadbox Co.’s Articles of
Incorporation].) Defendants allege that Breadbox Co. was formed on March 16,
2020, nearly three months after the underlying incident, which occurred on
December 20, 2019. (Ibid.) Therefore, Defendants argue, Breadbox Co.
could not possibly have given rise to the underlying incident. Defendants state
that the only way which Breadbox Co. could be liable is under the theory of
alter ego liability, which Plaintiff did not allege in her complaint.
Additionally, Defendants note that Plaintiff has known of Breadbox Co. since
Defendant Termechi’s December 2023 deposition, in which he testified to his
ownership of the same. Defendants therefore argue they are prejudiced by
Plaintiff’s delayed July 2024 filing of the Doe amendment.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues two main points: (1) they did not become aware of Breadbox Co.’s
potential as an alter ego for Termechi until his June 2024 deposition, and (2)
Defendants are not specifically prejudiced by Plaintiff’s delay, if any. (Kocaj
Decl. ¶¶ 48 and 56.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues that Breadbox Co.’s
potential liability relates back to their original complaint through alter ego
liability. (Kocaj Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges that Termechi has a history of
using shell companies to shield himself from personal liability. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff further speculates that Breadbox Co. is a shell company which
Termechi formed to avoid liability in this action, since Retail Baking and
Melrose Baking are now defunct due to unpaid taxes. (Ibid. at ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff also uses Melrose Baking doing business under the name of Breadbox
Co. as further evidence of their theory. (Ibid. at ¶ 17, subheading I.)
Finally, Plaintiff argues that, even if the Court were to find undue delay in
Plaintiff’s filing of her DOE amendment, Termechi cannot show prejudice because
Termechi does not have standing to bring the motion to quash on behalf of
Breadbox Co. (Ibid. at ¶ 56.)
 
In reply to Plaintiff’s
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not amended her complaint to
include a theory of alter ego liability and, as a result, adding Breadbox Co.
on this basis would be improper. (Victor Reply Decl. ¶ 2.) Further, Defendants
argue that they would be unduly prejudiced by any such amendment since trial is
two months away. Defendants also provide Carballo’s testimony confirming that
he was an employee of Retail Baking at the time of the underlying incident. (Victor
Decl. Exh. 5 [Defendant Termechi’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
One, No. 10].) Defendants also assert that Retail Baking owned and operated the
van involved with the underlying incident. Finally, Defendants argue that
Termechi has standing to bring the instant motion because he is doing so on
behalf of himself, not Breadbox Co.
 
Analysis
 
First, the Court address
whether Defendants have standing to bring this motion. CCP § 418.10 reads in
plain language:
 
“(a) A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within     any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a           notice of motion for one or
more of the following purposes:
 
(1) To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction over him     or her. . .”
 
(Emphasis
added.)
 
A motion to quash a Doe
amendment must be brought by the named Doe. “A defendant named in an
action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may challenge the amendment
by way of an evidence-based motion, which argues that the plaintiff
‘unreasonably delayed’ his or her filing of the challenged amendment.” (A.N.,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at 1067.) Any other parties, even if they are
parties to the action at large, do not have standing under CCP § 418.10.
Accordingly, the Court must deny Defendants’ motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to quash
Plaintiff Krystyn Chavez’s Doe amendment.
 
Moving parties are ordered to give notice.
 
 