 Case Number:  22STCV10620    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT B
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANTONIAS ROMERO,  
 
  
         vs.
 
BERNICE STEWDART-DONALDSON, et al.


 Case No.:  22STCV10620
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  OCTOBER 16, 2024



 
Defendant Ida
Bernice Stewart-Donaldson’s motion to compel independent medical examination of
Plaintiff Antonias Romero is DENIED.
 
Background
 
On March 28,
2022, Plaintiff Antonias Romero (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Ida Bernice Stewart-Donaldson (herein “Defendant”), the County of
Los Angeles (“County”), the City of Los Angeles (“City”), and DOES 1 to 20
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging two causes of action: (1) motor vehicle
negligence; and (2) general negligence. Plaintiff alleges that they were a
pedestrian crossing an intersection when Defendant, acting within his scope of
employment under the County and City, negligently and unexpectedly struck Plaintiff.
Plaintiff alleges serious injuries as a result.
 
Defendant Ida
Bernice Stewart-Donaldson moves to compel the independent mental and
neurological medical exam (“IME”) of Plaintiff, contending that there is good
cause for the motion because Plaintiff is alleging “significant ongoing . . .
neuropsychological and cognitive injuries.” (Notice of Motion, p. 3:4-5.)
 
Plaintiff
filed their opposition on October 7, 2024. Defendant did not file a reply.
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court …, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action …, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
Where any
party seeks to obtain discovery by a physical or mental examination, the party
shall obtain leave of the court. (CCP § 2032.310(a).) The Court shall grant the
motion only for good cause shown. (CCP§ 2032.320(a).) 
 
Meet and
Confer 
 
This motion
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration pursuant to CCP §
2032.310. Defendant’s counsel represents that they have exchanged emails
regarding this matter repeatedly over the past four weeks. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 16.) Although
the Court finds this paragraph alone does not satisfy the good faith meet and
confer requirements of the statute. 
However, this procedural deficiency noted, in the interest of judicial
efficiency and given the proximity of trial, the Court considers the merits of
Defendant’s motion.
 
Separate
Statement Requirements
 
A motion for
“medical examination over objection” must be accompanied by a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a).) 
 
“A separate
statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery motion
that provides all the information necessary to understand each discovery
request and all the responses to it that are at issue.” (CRC Rule 3.1345(c).)
 
Here,
Defendant failed to file a separate statement. Plaintiff served Defendant with
an objection to Defendant’s initial IME notice on June 7, 2024. (Lyon Decl. ¶
9; Exh. E [copy of Plaintiff’s objection].) Therefore, Defendant is required to
file a separate statement to comply with CRC Rule 3.134(a). 
 
This
procedural deficiency also noted, as with the meet and confer requirement, in
the interest of judicial efficiency and given the proximity of trial, the Court
considers the merits of Defendant’s motion.
 
Good Cause
 
Defendant
contends that there is good cause to compel Plaintiff’s IME because Plaintiff
claims ongoing neuropsychological and cognitive injuries. Defendant claims they
would be severely prejudiced without this IME if they cannot determine the
extent and validity of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries prior to trial. (Notice of
Motion, p. 4:21-27.) Additionally, Defendant alleges Plaintiff is refusing to
accept Defendant’s insurance policy limits, therefore exposing Defendant to the
possibility of excess judgment. (Ibid.) While Defendant has already
conducted a first IME on Plaintiff, Defendant alleges that IME was limited to Plaintiff’s
orthopedic injuries. Defendant alleges separate neuropsychological and
cognitive IMEs are necessary to determine the extent of Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendant has failed to establish good cause because, in their
first IME, Defendant’s physical examination included neurological testing. (Opp.
p. 7:1-2.) Plaintiff has not claimed any new injuries since the first IME. (Ibid.
at 3-4.) Furthermore, Plaintiff claims Defendant noticed the IMEs in
controversy after the discovery cutoff for the purpose of annoying, harassing,
and burdening Plaintiff. (Ibid. at 5-8.) Finally, Plaintiff notes they
did not retain any of their own neuropsychological experts, so Defendant would
not be unduly prejudiced by a similar lack thereof. (Ibid. at 14-20.)
 
When drafting
CCP § 2032, the legislative commentators “agree[d] that multiple examinations
should not be ordered routinely; the good cause requirement will check the
potential harassment of plaintiffs by repetitive exams. [Citation].” (Shapira
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) Therefore, the Court
now considers whether further IMEs are supported by good cause. 
 
First, the
Court notes that trial is set for November 12, 2024, less than a month from the
hearing date for this motion. Defendant noticed additional neuropsychological
IMEs scheduled for October 9, October 12, and October 16, 2024, after the discovery
cutoff date. (Selarz Decl. ¶¶ 18-20.) Furthermore, the scope of these purported
IMEs is similar in nature to the neurological testing done in Plaintiff’s
initial IME. The written report of Plaintiff’s first IME was completed in July
2023. (Selarz ¶ 9.) Dr. Daniel E. Kaplan (“Kaplan”), the physician which
Defendant retained for Plaintiff’s first IME, reviewed Plaintiff’s
maxillofacial CT scan in addition to conducting other neurological testing.
(Selarz ¶ 10.) CCP § 2019.030 prevents the use of a discovery method if the
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative. (CCP §
2019.030(a)(1).) Here, Defendant’s IMEs sought just weeks prior to trial are
unreasonably cumulative and duplicative to the IME which Defendant has already
obtained.
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant has failed to show good cause to compel further
IMEs of Plaintiff.
 
Sanctions
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion for a physical or mental examination, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2032.410.)
Here, Defendant attempted to notice multiple IMEs on the eve of trial for
discovery largely obtained through their first IME. Therefore, Defendant’s
motion for further medical examinations of Plaintiff lacks substantial
justification. 
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of
$1,060.00 for expenses and reasonable attorney’s fees. However, Plaintiff’s
counsel fails to set forth facts supporting the amount of sanctions sought.
Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
 
Conclusion
 
For the
reasons set forth above, the motion to compel Plaintiff’s independent medical
examination is DENIED.
 Moving party
is ordered to give notice.