 Case Number:  23STCV02953    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  39 Genesis Pink v.
5335 W Adams LA LLC
Case No.
23STCV02953
 
NOTICE
 
            The Court
posts these tentative orders on Tuesday, March 5, 2024, at approximately 8:00
a.m., in advance of the hearings on Friday, March 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  If Plaintiff does not appear at the hearing,
either remotely or in-person, she shall waive the right to be heard and shall
submit to entry of these orders.  
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion to Deem Admitted
 
            Defendants
move to have the matters specified in the Requests for Admission, Set One
(“RFAs”) deemed admitted by Plaintiff Genesis Pink.  The RFAs were served on or about April 5,
2023.  (Declaration of Michael B. Seuylemezian,
dated December 28, 2023, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff
had not responded to the RfAs as of the time the motion was filed.  (Id., ¶ 5.) 
The Court heard this motion on January 25, 2024, and continued the
motion to afford Plaintiff a final opportunity to serve responses.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated January 25,
2024.)  Plaintiff failed to do so.  (See Declaration of Michael B. Seuylemezian, dated
March 1, 2024.)  Therefore, the Court
grants the motion and deems all matters admitted in the RFAs to have been
admitted.  The Court declines to impose a
monetary sanction per Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(e).
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant’s motion is granted.  Plaintiff is deemed to have admitted all
matters specified in the Requests for Admission.
 
            2.         The Court denies Defendant’s request for
monetary sanctions.
 
            3.         The Court’s clerk shall provide notice.  
 
  
Order #2 of 3
Demurrer and
Motion to Strike
 
            Plaintiff
Genesis Pink (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented party, filed this action against
5335 W Adams LA LLC and a series of employees (collectively, “Defendants”)
asserting causes of action stemming from her tenancy at the premises located at
5335 West Adams Boulevard in Los Angeles, California (the “premises”).  Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
            This is an
action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, failure to meet
contractual obligations and the landslide of issues that manifested due to the
noise pollution caused by the residents who lived above my dwelling not being
addressed nor investigated properly. 
(First Amended Complaint, p. 2.) 
Plaintiff moved into the premises on July 25, 2022.  (Id., p. 3.) 
While moving into her unit, Plaintiff “heard some odd noises that were
so crisp, it was like someone was in [the] apartment walls, but [she] couldn’t
identify the source.”  (Id., p. 3, ¶
1.)  Three days later, Plaintiff sent a
text to the assistant manager to complaint. 
(Id., p. 3, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff experienced
“strange noises” that were “so weird and random.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff heard “stomping back and forth and throughout the night.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff and a credible witness heard “intentional disturbing noises”
that constituted a “nuisance.”  (Id., p.
5, ¶ 5.)  These noises included “screeches”
that were “loud and crisp.”  (Ibid.)  In response, the manager said that “she would
speak to the tenant above [Plaintiff].” 
(Id., p. 7, ¶ 6.)  Afterwards, “the
noises intensified.”  (Id., p. 7, ¶
7.)  Plaintiff continued to complain, and
the staff “never came to investigate” the complaints, which included a
complaint about smoking, a breach of the lease. 
(Id., p. 8, ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff took
steps “to reduce noise in [her] unit by installing noise reduction sound boards
on [the] walls,” to no avail, because the noise continued, disrupting Plaintiff’s
sleep.  (Id., p. 9, ¶ 9.)  After two months of sending complaints, Plaintiff
consulted with an attorney.  (Id., p. 10,
¶ 12.)  Plaintiff then withheld her rent,
and she was evicted.  (Id., p. 11, ¶¶
13-14.)  Plaintiff characterizes this
eviction as “wrongful.”  (Id., p. 5, ¶
5.) 
 
            Defendants
demur to every cause of action.  As an
initial matter, it appears that Plaintiff was evicted pursuant to an unlawful
detainer action, which may have preclusive effect under the doctrines of res
judicata and collateral estoppel.  But
the Court need not reach that issue.  Simply,
Plaintiff’s allegations in the first amended complaint do not support her
causes of action.  The noise is
attributable to Plaintiff’s neighbors. 
Even assuming the noise distributed Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment,
Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants were responsible for causing the
issue.  Finally, Plaintiff concedes in
her first amended complaint that she stopped paying the rent, so there is no
basis to find that any eviction was unlawful (even assuming this issue was not
resolved by the unlawful detainer case). 
Other causes of action do not apply to the facts alleged by Plaintiff.
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court sustains Plaintiff’s
demurrer.  The motion to strike is taken off-calendar
as moot.
 
            2.         The Court issues an Order to Show Cause
why the Court should grant Plaintiff leave to amend.  The OSC hearing shall be held on March 29,
2024, at 1:30 p.m. at the following location:
 
            Stanley
Mosk Courthouse 
            111 North
Hill Street
            Department
#39 (Goorvitch, J.)
            Los
Angeles, California 90012
 
The parties may appear remotely or in-person.  Plaintiff shall file a proposed second
amended complaint and/or a brief explaining why an amendment would be
successful on or before March 20, 2024.  The
proposed second amended complaint shall be served on Defendant’s counsel via
email or overnight delivery.  Defendant’s
counsel may file a response on or before March 26, 2024.  The Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does
not demonstrate that an amendment would be successful, either by filing a proposed
second amended complaint or by filing a brief articulating sufficient facts
that would constitute viable causes of action, absent good cause, the Court will
deny leave to amend and dismiss this case with prejudice.
 
            3.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
 
Order #3 of 3
Order to Show Cause
re: Terminating Sanctions
 
            On January 25, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s motions to compel responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One (“FROG”)
and incorporates its order by reference. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated January 25, 2024.)  The Court ordered Plaintiff to serve
responses to the FROG, without objections, on or before March 1, 2024, and
imposed monetary sanctions.  Defendant’s
counsel filed a declaration stating that Plaintiff has failed to do so.  (See Declaration of Michael B. Seuylemezian, dated
March 1, 2024.) 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court issues an Order to Show Cause why the Court should not
impose a terminating sanction and dismiss this case with prejudice under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030(d)(3) based upon Plaintiff’s refusal to
comply with her discovery obligations.  The
OSC hearing shall be held on March 29, 2024, at 1:30 p.m. at the following location:
 
            Stanley
Mosk Courthouse 
            111 North
Hill Street
            Department
#39 (Goorvitch, J.)
            Los
Angeles, California 90012
 
The parties may appear remotely or in-person.  Plaintiff may file a response to this OSC or
serve verified responses to the FROG, without objections, on or before March
20, 2024.  Defendant’s counsel may file a
response (including a declaration stating whether Plaintiff served verified
responses, without objections, on or before March 20, 2024).  Defendant’s response shall be filed on or
before March 26, 2024.  
 
            The Court
provides notice: If Plaintiff does not serve verified responses to the FROG,
without objections, on or before March 20, 2024, or articulate good cause for
her failure to do so, the Court will impose a terminating sanction and dismiss this
case with prejudice.
 
            The Court’s
clerk shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 