  Case Number:  22STCV26319A    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV26319A




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Answers to Deposition Questions




MOVING PARTIES:


Plaintiff Veronica Mendez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Guilford Glazer Properties, Inc. and The Diane
  and Guilford Glazer Foundation



            
MOTION
Plaintiff Veronica
Mendez (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Deponent William Neiman (“Deponent”) to
answer deposition questions.  Defendants
Guilford Glazer Properties, Inc. and the Diane and Guilford Glazer Foundation
(“Defendants”) oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (a) provides, if a deponent fails to
answer any question at deposition, the party that noticed the deposition may
move to compel the deponent to answer. 
In the instant
case, counsel for Defendants instructed Deponent, who is the Chief Executive
Officer of Defendant Guilford Glazer Properties, Inc., not to answer questions
during Deponent’s deposition.  Counsel
should not instruct a deponent not to answer any question unless the question
implicates a privilege or deposing counsel’s behavior warrants suspension of
the deposition.  (See Stewart v.
Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015 (Stewart)
[discovery rules “clearly contemplate that deponents not be prevented by
counsel from answering a question unless it pertains to privileged matters or
deposing counsel’s conduct has reached a stage where suspension is warranted”].)
 
In their opposition
brief, Defendants make no showing that these questions implicate any privilege
or that suspension of the deposition was necessary for any reason.  Instead, Defendants argue the questions
implicate the privacy of Defendants’ employees. 
Privacy is not a privilege.  If
Defendants believed the questions were so intrusive on the privacy rights of
others to the extent they constituted harassment, Defendants’ remedy was to
suspend the deposition and seek a protective order.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.470 [party may
move for a protective order on the ground the examination is being conducted in
bad faith or in a manner that unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or oppresses that
party]; Stewart, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at p. 1015.)  Defendants failed to do so and have not filed
a motion for protective order.  
For the same
reason, Defendants’ arguments regarding questions about Defendants’ financial
condition do not concern a privilege.  Accordingly,
Deponent should have answered those questions. 

In opposition,
Defendants argue Deponent answered the questions Plaintiff posed.  But Plaintiff seeks to compel Deponent to
answer deposition questions that Defendants’ counsel instructed Deponent not to
answer.  Deponent did not answer the
questions on the advice of Defendants’ counsel. 
As such, Defendants’ argument is nonsensical.
The motion to
compel is granted.  Deponent is to appear
for a second session of the deposition within 30 days of notice of this order,
unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise, and answer the questions set forth in
Plaintiff’s Amended Separate Statement without objections.
Plaintiff requests
sanctions in connection with this motion. 
The Court finds Defendants opposed this motion without substantial
justification and awards sanctions.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).) 
The Court imposes sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of
record, Cozen O’Connor, in the amount of $2,750, which represents five hours of
attorney time to prepare the motion and attend the hearing at $550 per
hour.  Defendants and their counsel of
record, Cozen O’Connor, jointly and severally, are to pay sanctions in the
amount of $2,750 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 30 days of notice
of this order.
Plaintiff is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 