 Case Number:  23STCV02273A    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02273A




MOTION


Motion to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jane Doe




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



 
MOTION
              Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves for protective orders to quash the subpoena Defendant
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”) served on Deponent Dr. Christine Djapri (“Deponent”).  Defendant opposes the motions.
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena requires deposition testimony
or the production of documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely or
modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to
quash, “the Court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) 
In the instant case, Plaintiff contends she was
sexually harassed and assaulted by her co-worker Eric Pagel (“Pagel”) while she
worked for Defendant.  Defendant served a
subpoena on Deponent, Plaintiff’s treating gynecologist, in which Defendant indicated
it seeks to depose Deponent and asks Deponent to produce documents.  Plaintiff testified she had a gynecology
appointment with Deponent shortly after Pagel’s alleged assault, and Plaintiff
informed Deponent of the assault.  As
such, Deponent is a percipient witness. 
Indeed, Plaintiff has also subpoenaed documents from Deponent in this
action.  Further, Defendant has already
deposed Deponent.  
Plaintiff did not serve this motion on
Defendant until three minutes prior to the commencement of Deponent’s
deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not
appear at the deposition, and Defendant proceeded with it, unaware of the
motion to quash.  Under these
circumstances,  the motion is moot.
In reply, Plaintiff argues Defendant
wrongfully proceeded with the deposition because Plaintiff had objected to the
deposition subpoena.  Plaintiff is
incorrect.  Plaintiff was required to
seek a protective order to preclude Defendant from taking Deponent’s deposition
or to limit the scope thereof.  The scope
of Deponent’s deposition is not an “error or irregularity” in the deposition
notice, to which Plaintiff could object.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff is to give notice of this
order, and file proof of service of such.
 