 Case Number:  23STCV06987    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV06987




MOTION 


Motion for Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Windsor
  Healthcare Management, Inc., SNF Management Company, LLC, Amanda Moore,
  Antelope Holdings I LLC, Newgen Administrative services, LLC, 9560 Pico LLC,
  and Pico AR LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Cynthia Batac



 
MOTION
             Defendants Windsor Healthcare Management, Inc.,
SNF Management Company, LLC, Amanda Moore, Antelope Holdings I LLC, Newgen
Administrative services, LLC, 9560 Pico LLC, and Pico AR LLC (“Defendants”) move
for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5.  In its order of March 26, 2024, the Court
granted Defendants’ request for leave to file this motion notwithstanding the
stay of this action pending arbitration.[1]  Plaintiff Cynthia Batac (“Plaintiff”) opposes
the motion. 
ANALYSIS
In its order of March
26, 2024, the Court stated, “Defendants request monetary sanctions in the
amount of $6,810 under Code of Civil Procedure §2023.030. The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s Counsel willfully violated this Court’s order by propounding
discovery, which constitutes an abuse of the discovery process. The Court finds
that there is no good cause for Plaintiff’s conduct in this case. The Court
finds that the amount of the requested sanctions is fair and reasonable under
the circumstances to compensate Defendants from having to litigate this issue.
The Court finds that equitable considerations favor Defendants on this issue.
Nevertheless, the Court must deny the request for sanctions because the Civil
Discovery Act’s sections defining conduct subject to discovery sanctions do not
independently authorize trial courts to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of
discovery; they authorize sanctions only to the extent authorized by another
provision of the act.”  (March 26, 2024 Minute
Order.)  However, the Court expressly and
explicitly granted Defendants’ request to file a motion for sanctions to address
Plaintiff counsel’s blatant violation of the Court’s order.  
Defendants move
for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 based on “Plaintiff’s
direct violation of this Court’s August 17, 2023 Order mandating a stay of this
entire action pending arbitration by filing several ‘Doe’ Amendments in
superior court and also improperly attempting to engage in discovery, including
unilaterally noticing eight depositions with requests for production of
documents.”  (Notice of Motion for
Sanctions, p. 2.)  Section 128.5 permits
the court to award attorney fees a party incurred “as a result of bad-faith
actions or tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).) 
 As set forth above, this Court has already
found Plaintiff engaged in bad faith tactics by violating the Court’s stay
order and propounding discovery in this matter despite the stay.  Among other things, Plaintiff contends Defendants
did not give her an opportunity to withdraw the discovery or dismiss the Doe
amendments before filing this motion, as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subds. (f)(1)(B),
(D).)  However, it is clear, under the circumstances
of this matter, Defendants could not satisfy the section 128.5’s “safe harbor”
provision because the Court had already determined the Doe Defendants would be
a part of any arbitration proceedings, and it had also determined Plaintiff had
improperly initiated discovery concerning those Defendants.  Thus, there was nothing for Plaintiff to
withdraw or correct.  It was in this context
at the hearing on March 26, 2024 on Defendant’s motion to enforce the stay of
this action pending arbitration the Court granted Defendant’s oral request for relief
from stay to file the instant motion for sanctions concerning Plaintiff’s
violation of the Court’s stay order.  
Therefore, the
Court does not find Defendants’ motion to be procedurally defective and grants
the motion. Accordingly, the Court imposes monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel in the amount of $8,482.40 for Plaintiff’s violations of the
Court’s order.  Plaintiff is to pay this
amount within 30 days of the service of this order.
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 


