 Case Number:  23STCV02273B    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02273B




MOTION


Motion to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jane Doe




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



 
MOTION
              Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) moves for protective orders to quash the subpoena Defendant
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Defendant”) served on Deponent Christopher Lee (“Deponent”).  Defendant opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena requires deposition testimony
or the production of documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely or
modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to
quash, “the Court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) 
In the instant case, Plaintiff contends she
was sexually harassed and assaulted by her co-worker Eric Pagel (“Pagel”) while
she worked for Defendant.  Defendant served
a subpoena on Deponent, in which Defendant also seeks the production of
documents.  Deponent is Plaintiff’s
brother-in-law as well as Plaintiff’s current and former co-worker.  Plaintiff has a right to privacy in “various
private or sensitive information regarding [her] personal life . . . .”  (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 997, 1003-1004.)  This
includes Plaintiff’s relationship with Deponent.  Accordingly, the Court cannot order
disclosure of information regarding Plaintiff’s relationship with Deponent unless
such information is directly relevant to this litigation.  (See Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)  
However, Deponent is a percipient witness in
this action.  As reflected in documents
produced during discovery, after Pagel’s alleged assault of
Plaintiff, Plaintiff discussed with Deponent, who was working for Defendant’s
competitor at the time, the possibility of leaving with Pagel to work with
Deponent for Defendant’s competitor.  Plaintiff
also testified she told Deponent about
Pagel’s assault.  (See Opposition, pp.
7-8.)  Therefore, Defendant is entitled
to conduct discovery concerning what Plaintiff told Deponent.  Accordingly,
the motion to quash is denied.
Plaintiff is to give notice of this
order and to file proof of service of same.
 