  Case Number:  20STCV39275    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion of Defendant to Set Aside the Entry of
Default and Default Judgment Against Defendant Silvestre Cosio.
 
The motion is granted.
The Court vacates and sets aside the (1) 3/1/2023
order granting the motion for terminating sanctions and entering default against
Defendant, and (2) 8/9/2023 Default Judgment, and instead enters an order
denying the motion for terminating sanctions.
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is denied,
the Court finding the motion to set aside has merit.
 
Background
Plaintiff JOSE ANTONIO OLIVARES LIRA’s (“Plaintiff”)
Complaint alleges that Defendant SILVESTRE COSIO (“Defendant”) agreed to
produce textile materials in exchange for money tendered by Plaintiff, but
Defendant never delivered the materials. On 8/3/2022, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Plaintiff’s Interrogatories (Set 1), Requests
for Production of Documents (Set 1), and Requests for Admission (Set 2), plus
monetary sanctions. On 11/18/2022, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to
compel Defendant’s deposition. On 3/1/2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion for terminating sanctions, striking Defendant’s answer, and entering
default against Defendant. The basis of the termination sanctions motion was
Defendant’s failure to comply with the 8/3/2022 and 11/18/2022 discovery orders.
The Court set an OSC re Entry of Default Judgment, which it ultimately heard on
8/8/23. Defendant appeared at the hearing, and, as reflected in the minute
order, represented that he had hired an attorney and requested a continuance of
the hearing. The Court instructed Plaintiff to submit a default judgment and on
8/9/23, the Court entered a Default Judgment in the sum of $64,706.77, against
Defendant. 
Defendant now moves to vacate and to set aside the
Default Judgment. Plaintiff opposes the motion and requests $50,000 in
sanctions against Defendant. 
Legal Standard
A court may relieve a party from a
default or default judgment due to “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect” if the party seeking relief files a motion within six months
from the date default is entered. CCP § 473(b);
Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 28. A court
must set aside default caused by attorney error, as set forth in an affidavit
from the attorney who committed the error. CCP § 473(b). A set aside motion
based on an attorney’s affidavit documenting error must be filed within six
months of entry of the default judgment. Id. 
 
In addition to the statutory grounds set forth in CCP §
473, at any time “courts have the inherent authority to vacate a default and
default judgment on equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic
mistake.” Kramer, 56 Cal.App.5th at 29 (internal quotes omitted).
“One ground for equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied
when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a
hearing on the merits.” Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981.
“Extrinsic mistake exists when the ground for relief is not so much the fraud
or other misconduct of one of the parties as it is the excusable neglect of the
defaulting party to appear and present his claim or defense. Cruz v. Fagor
Am., Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 503.
 
A party seeking relief under the court’s inherent authority
must demonstrate a “satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to the
action,” a meritorious defense to the action, and diligence in seeking relief
once the defendant discovered the entry of a default judgment. Mechling v.
Asbestos Defendants (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1241, 1246. 
 
Analysis
The Court entered default against Defendant on 3/1/23,
more than six months before Defendant filed this motion on 10/16/23. Defendant’s
motion therefore is untimely under the discretionary grounds set forth in CCP § 473(b). Defendant does not base his motion on an
affidavit from the attorney who failed to respond to the discovery or the
motion for terminating sanctions, and thus mandatory relief under CCP
§ 473(b) is also unavailable.
Defendant alternatively seeks relief
under the Court’s inherent authority. (Mot at 2:19-20; 8:16-9:12, 11:9-24.) As
noted above, the Court granted the terminating sanctions motion and entered
default against Defendant as a sanction for not complying with the Court’s
prior discovery orders. Defendant contends that his failure to oppose the terminating
sanctions motion is excusable and not willful because he believed that an
attorney he had hired was representing him at that hearing and in the case in
general. While an attorney’s negligent handling of a case is imputed to his
client for purposes of discovery sanctions, that is not the case if evidence
exists that the attorney engaged in “positive misconduct” such as abandoning
the client. Sauer v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213, 231.  See also generally, e.g., Seacall
Dev. v. Santa Monica Rent Control Bd. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 201, 205.  
Here, Defendant explains that he paid a retainer to an
attorney named Saunders in or around March 2023 to represent him in this case.
(Cosio Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant, who lives in Mexico, believed that Saunders was
working on the case and did not know that Saunders never filed a substitution
of counsel form and never appeared in the case. (Id.) Defendant
forwarded Saunders the motion for terminating sanctions, believing that
Saunders was dealing with the litigation. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. B.) Defendant
did not oppose the terminating sanctions motion and indeed, did not appear at
the hearing. In June 2023, Saunders returned Defendant’s retainer in exchange
for Defendant agreeing not to sue him. (Id., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s default came at
the end of many years of discovery misconduct, including failing to respond to
discovery and appear for his deposition. But this overlooks Saunders’s
abandonment of Defendant at the critical time of a hearing on a pending motion
for terminating sanctions. Defendant filed no opposition, and this meant the
Court had no information from Defendant that could have changed the result as
to the discretionary discovery sanctions sought in that motion. Plaintiff also contends
that Defendant cannot use Saunders’ alleged misconduct to get out of the
default judgment because Saunders returned the retainer before default judgment
was entered, and thus no attorney-client relationship existed at that point in
time. But Saunders’ abandonment of Defendant had already occurred when he
failed to oppose or appear at the terminating sanctions hearing in March 2023,
at which time the Court entered default against Defendant.
The Court thus concludes that Defendant has adequately
shown that his attorney Saunders engaged in positive misconduct by abandoning
Defendant at the time of the terminating sanctions motion that led to Defendant’s
default. Defendant’s failure to oppose the motion and/or address the discovery
failures that eventually led to his default thus are excusable and not willful and
constitute extrinsic mistake.  
The Court finds that Defendant has
adequately established that he has a meritorious case, attaching both responses
to the RFAs that Defendant previously failed to provide as well as an
opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions. (Kamyab Decl., Exs. D &
E.) Defendant has also stated he will sit for his deposition within 10 days of
the Court’s order setting aside the default and default judgment and answer the
outstanding discovery. (Cosio Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant also contends that no facts exist to support
Plaintiff’s claims. (Mot. at 11:9-24.) These facts are sufficient to show
Defendant has a meritorious defense to the case. Mechling, 29 Cal.App.5th
at 1246 (“only a minimal showing is necessary” to establish a meritorious
defense as basis for equitable relief). 
Finally, Defendant demonstrated
diligence in seeking relief once he discovered the default judgment. Once
Saunders abandoned Defendant, Defendant appeared at the OSC re
entry of default judgment hearing on 8/8/23 and told the Court he had hired an
attorney. His current attorney confirms Cosio retained him to file this motion
on 8/8/23. (Kamyab Decl., ¶  2.)
The Court therefore exercises its inherent authority
to grant the motion and set aside the default judgment and default against
Defendant. The Court does not, therefore, reach Defendant’s arguments about the
validity of the default judgment though it notes that a contractual or
statutory basis must exist for attorney’s fees sought in a default judgment,
and no such basis appears in the default judgment papers submitted here.  
The Court will confer with the parties on a date for a
status conference regarding Defendant’s discovery responses, to be held within
the next 30 days. The purpose of the status conference is to ensure that
Defendant serves verified written responses to the outstanding interrogatories
and document requests and pays the monetary sanctions from the 8/3/2022 order and
sits for his deposition within 10 days of this order.
Because the Court has granted the motion to set aside,
finding that such relief is warranted, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions under CCP § 128.7. 