 Case Number:  BC624838    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  72 Pinter-Brown v. University of
California at Los Angeles et al.
(BC624838)
 
Tentative Rulings on Motions In
Limine
 
A.        PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE:
 
1.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 1:  Granted on agreement of the parties.  Neither party shall introduce evidence about or
refer to Attorney Carney R. Shegerian being a patient of Plaintiff.
 
2.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 2:  Granted on agreement of the parties.  Neither party shall introduce evidence about
or refer to dismissed claims and parties, specifically:  that Dr. Sven De Vos was a defendant
dismissed from this case; that the following claims were dismissed or
adjudicated:  (1) harassment based on
gender; (2) retaliation for complaints of discrimination and/or harassment
based on gender; (3) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; (4) defamation;
(5) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (6) Violations of the
Equal Pay Act.
 
3.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 3:  Granted in part as follows:  Neither party shall introduce evidence about
or refer to the exact location of Plaintiff’s homes and the number of homes she
owns.  The Court will allow evidence of
the general location of Plaintiff’s home near UCLA and UCI and the purchase of
her home near UCI.
 
4.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 4:  Denied as overly broad.  The evidence sought to be excluded is not
specifically enough defined for the Court to rule on at the in limine
stage.  The Court will, however, exclude
on a question-by-question basis any evidence that is directed solely or
primarily to proving plaintiff’s wealth as a means of prejudicing the jury.  The Court admonishes Defendant not to seek to
elicit such testimony.
 
5.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 5:  Granted on agreement of the
parties.  Neither party shall introduce
evidence about or refer to Plaintiff’s son being a lawyer and former employee
of Shegerian & Associates, Inc.
 
6.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 6:  Denied.
 
7.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No 7:  Denied. 
 
8.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No 8: Granted
on agreement of the parties.  Neither
party shall introduce evidence about or refer to the alleged sexual preferences
of Plaintiff.
 
9.    
Plaintiff’s
MIL No. 9: Granted
on agreement of the parties.  Neither
party shall introduce evidence about or refer to the results of the prior trial
or appeal in this matter.
 
10.  Plaintiff’s MIL No. 10: 
Denied.  However, the Court will
consider relevance objections on a question-by-question basis.
 
 
B.   
DEFENDANT’S
MOTIONS IN LIMINE:
 
1.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 1:  Granted as follows:  Neither party shall introduce evidence about or
refer to (1) the October 2013 Report authored by retired California Supreme
Court Justice Carlos Moreno (the “Moreno Report”); (2) a 2014 list of
complaints against the University of California system as a hole submitted to
the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH complaints”); and (3)
evidence of alleged discrimination by the University of California not on the
basis of gender.  
 
Moreover,
to the extent that Plaintiff wishes to submit evidence of “me too” gender
discrimination that does not involve Dr. Sven de Vos, Dr. John Glaspy, Dr.
Dennis Slamon, Dr. Jonathan Hiatt and Dr. Jan Tillisch, Plaintiff shall bring
such evidence to the Court’s attention outside the presence of the jury before
any question or reference in the jury’s presence so the matter may be argued by
the parties and decided by the Court.  Under
the Court’s ruling, at least a portion of the facts relating to the neurology
department appear to be admissible “me too” evidence given the involvement of
Dr. Jonathan Hiatt in those circumstances. 
The Court may sustain objections to admission of the facts relating to
the neurology department under Evidence Code section 352 or otherwise to the
extent the focus strays too far from the involvement of Dr. Hiatt.  
 
The
Court provides the following reasoning in connection with its ruling on this
motion.
 
Plaintiff
agrees that the DFEH complaints are not admissible and the motion in limine is
unopposed in that regard.
 
Plaintiff
agrees that the Moreno Report is inadmissible as “me too” evidence but asserts
that portions are admissible for other reasons, including to prove constructive
discharge.  The Court is not convinced by
Plaintiff’s argument.  Even assuming for
the sake of argument that certain statements in the report relate in some way
to Plaintiff’s constructive discharge claim, the Court concludes that admission
of such evidence is substantially more prejudicial than probative under
Evidence Code section 352.  The Court’s
conclusion is informed in part by the history of the use of the Moreno Report
in the prior trial and the fact that the Moreno Report focused on racial
discrimination rather than gender discrimination.
 
The
involvement of Dr. Hiatt in the facts relating to the neurology department
require the Court to deny Defendant’s request to exclude this evidence from the
retrial.  The Court admonishes Plaintiff
not to stray too far afield from Dr. Hiatt’s participation in presenting this
evidence.
 
Any
“me too” evidence not involving those people Plaintiff has accused of being bad
actors here should be brought to the Court’s attention outside the presence of
the  jury to determine whether it is
admissible.  The Court agrees that, in
light of the history of this case, Defendant’s proposed order requiring such
matters to be heard outside the presence of the jury makes sense. 
 
2.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 2:  The Court denies this motion to the extent
that it seeks to exclude evidence of “harassment” as opposed to
“discrimination.”  The evidence sought to
be excluded by Defendant is too ill-defined to be subject to a motion in
limine.  Moreover, the evidence that
Defendant seeks to exclude is likely to overlap with Plaintiff’s discrimination
case.
 
The
Court will hear argument by the parties on the question of whether Plaintiff’s
evidence relating to her treatment in connection with the audits of clinical
trials relates solely to the claim of “retaliation”  and should be excluded or whether it remains
relevant to the pending claim of discrimination.
 
3.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 3:  Denied.
 
4.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 4:  Denied.
 
5.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 5:  The Court grants the motion in part as
follows.  The Court excludes Ms.
Simpson’s testimony broadly characterizing Dr. de Vos as “misogynistic,”
“expects women to be submissive to men” or similarly general characterizations.  Moreover, neither party shall bring up Dr. de
Vos’s German background (an issue raised in the prior trial by Defendant, not
Plaintiff.)  The excluded testimony is
improper character testimony, improper opinion testimony, and more prejudicial
than probative under Evidence Code section 352.
 
Except
as so specified, the Court denies the motion. 
As Defendant agrees, Ms. Simpson may testify to what she observed.  To the extent that there are hearsay
objections, the Court will hear them on a case-by-case basis.  If Plaintiff intends to rely on Evidence Code
section 1236, Plaintiff must be prepared to strictly comply with both Evidence Code
section 1236 and Evidence Code section 791. 
Plaintiff also must be prepared to argue whether the exception applies
to one witness’s testimony about another party’s prior consistent statement.
 
6.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 6:  Granted on agreement of the parties.  Plaintiff does not intend to call Jerry
Kang.  Accordingly, the Court rules that
neither party shall call Jerry Kang as a witness.
 
7.    
Defendant’s
Mil No. 7:  Granted. 
The Court excludes Kathleen Salvaty from testifying at the retrial.  Ms. Salvaty began working as Title IX
coordinator for UCLA in April 2015, years after the events at issue in this
lawsuit took place.  The Court concludes
that her testimony is not relevant to the issues in this case.  To the extent it had some relevance, it is
more prejudicial than probative, would confuse the issues, and would entail an
undue consumption of time under Evidence Code section 352.
 
8.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 8:  Denied. 
To the extent that Defendant seeks a limiting instruction, it should
propose one to the Court after the relevant evidence comes in.
 
9.    
Defendant’s
MIL No. 9:  Denied.
 
10.  Defendant’s MIL No. 10: 
Granted on agreement of the parties. 
Neither party shall introduce evidence about or refer to the captive
insurance Fiat Lux or any alleged reinsurance taken by Defendant to cover the
claims brought by Plaintiff.
 
11.  Defendant’s MIL No. 11: 
Denied.
 
12.  Defendant’s MIL No. 12: 
Denied.
 
13.  Defendant’s MIL No. 13: 
Granted on agreement of the parties. 
Neither party shall introduce evidence about or refer to the evidence of
any discrimination against Plaintiff at UC Irvine occurring after she left UC
Los Angeles.
 
14.  Defendant’s MIL No. 14: 
Denied.  Defendant identifies no discovery
request in which it sought the identity of such witnesses.  To the extent Defendant wants to do so, Defendant
may take the depositions of these witnesses prior to trial.  
 
 
 
 