  Case Number:  21STCV05557    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 6/5/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV05557 SHAHRAM RASHIDIAN,
et al. vs FARSHID HEKMAT
Moving Party: Defendant Shirin Hekmat, MD
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On February 11,
2021, Plaintiffs Shahram Rashidian and Negar Estakhr filed this case against
Farshid Hekmat, M.D., Jamshid Juda Hekmat, M.D., Shirin Hekmat, M.D., and
Hekmat Orthopaedics Medical Group Inc. The complaint contains two causes of
action: Plaintiff Shahram Rashidian’s claim for medical malpractice and
Plaintiff Negar Estakhr’s claim for loss of consortium. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants were negligent in performing Rashidian’s surgeries and in preventing
Rashidian from getting an infection during his surgeries. Defendant Shirin
Hekmat, the anesthesiologist for the surgeries, now moves the Court for summary
judgment on the basis that she did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries and her
conduct did not fall below the applicable standard of care. Plaintiff did not
file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when
the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
Medical
Malpractice and Loss of Consortium
 
The
elements of medical malpractice are: “(1) the duty of the professional to
use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.” (Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02.) “Both
the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by
expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985.) 
An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the
prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the
health care provider. (Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988,
999.)
 
A married person may recover for loss of consortium
when his or her spouse has been injured by the negligence of a third party.
(See Zwicker v. Altamont Emergency Room Physicians Medical Group (2002)
98 Cal.App.4th 26, 31.) The elements for a loss of consortium cause of action
are: (1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person
injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s
spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4) the loss was
proximately caused by the defendant’s act. (See Vanhooser v. Superior Court
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) “‘A cause of action for loss of consortium
is, by its nature, dependent on the existence of a cause of action for tortious
injury to a spouse.’” (Id. (quoting Hahn vs Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th at 746).)

Discussion
 
Defendant presented the expert opinion of Dr. Kevin P. Becker who
declares that "After reviewing the relevant materials in this case, and
based upon my education, training, and experience, it is my opinion that
anesthesiologist Shirin Hekmat, M.D., complied with the applicable standard of
care in the care and treatment of Shahram Rashidian." (Declaration of Dr.
Kevin P. Becker ¶ 8.) The workup and decision to perform the epidural
injections by Shirin Hekmat, M.D., on July 22, 2019, and August 14, 2019,
complied with the standard of care. (Becker Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
Furthermore, Dr. Becker further declares that "based upon my
education, training, and experience, as well as the medical records in this
case, no act or omission by Shirin Hekmat, M.D., caused or contributed to the
alleged injuries of Shahram Rashidian." (Becker Decl. ¶ 10.) Shirin
Hekmat, M.D., properly performed the epidural injections on July 22, 2019, and
August 14, 2019, as well as providing anesthesia services during the procedures
on December 5, 2019, and January 23, 2020. (Becker Decl. ¶ 11.) Shirin Hekmat,
M.D., was not in the surgical field during the procedure and could not have
caused any infection. (Becker Decl. ¶ 11.) Thus, "to a reasonable degree
of medical probability, no act or omission by Shirin Hekmat, M.D., caused or
contributed to the injuries alleged by Shahram Rashidian." (Becker Decl. ¶
11.)
 
Defendant has met her initial burden in negating the elements of
duty and causation of Plaintiff Rashidian’s medical malpractice cause of
action. Plaintiffs failed to file an opposition and raise a triable issue of
fact. Therefore, summary judgment is GRANTED as to Plaintiff Shahram
Rashidian’s medical malpractice claim against Defendant Shirin Hekmat, M.D.
 
Because the Court granted summary judgment dismissing Shahram
Rashidian’s medical malpractice claim, there is no existing cause of action for
tortious injury upon which Plaintiff Negar Estakhr’s claim for loss of
consortium could be based.  donsequently,
summary judgment is also GRANTED as to Plaintiff Negar Estakhr’s claim for loss
of consortium. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 