 Case Number:  22STCV02313    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND REQUESTS FOR DEFENSE COSTS
Hearing Date: 6/5/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV02313 IGNACIO SAAVEDRA
BAULO vs. CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Moving Party: Defendant State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation (Caltrans)
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS MOOT
AND
REQUESTS FOR DEFENSE COSTS IS DENIED
 
On January 19, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the current case against multiple defendants, including
Defendant the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation (Caltrans), for negligence and dangerous condition of public
property. Plaintiff alleges that he was injured while driving near 17015
Pacific Coast Highway in Los Angeles when his vehicle struck an open
(uncovered) manhole. Defendant Caltrans moved for summary judgment on the
grounds that the State did not own, control, or maintain the property at the
time of Plaintiff's injuries on January 15, 2021. Caltrans also sought an award
of costs and attorney’s fees under C.C.P. section 1038.
On March 29, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s request to dismiss Defendant Caltrans with prejudice.
Consequently, the present motion is moot. Courts decide only justiciable
issues. (Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191
Cal.App.4th 1559, 1573, 120 Cal.Rptr.3d 665.) Justiciability refers to whether
the questions litigated are based on an actual controversy. Unripeness and
mootness describe situations where there is no justiciable controversy.
Mootness occurs when a once ripe actual controversy no longer exists due to a
change in circumstances. (Id.)
CCP § 1038 (d) provides
that CCP 1038 “only appl[ies] if the defendant …has made a motion for summary
judgment … and the motion is granted.” Because the present motion for summary
judgment is moot and not granted, Defendant’s request for fees under CCP § 1038
is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 