 Case Number:  24NNCV02040    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 2,
2025

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV02040

 



MP:  


Oscar Ruiz-Ramirez (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Kia America, Inc. (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Oscar Ruiz-Ramirez
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Kia
America, Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Kia
sold him a defective 2024 Kia Telluride (Subject Vehicle) and thereafter declined
to repurchase the vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before
the Court are two motions to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request
for the Production of Documents (RFPD). Kia opposes the motions and Plaintiff
responds.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a
request for production must include a meet and confer declaration consistent
with C.C.P. § 2016.040. (C.C.P. § 2031.310 (b)(2).) In turn, Section 2016.040
requires that the moving party have made “a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (C.C.P. §
2016.040.) 
 
Considerations as to whether a good faith
meet and confer effort has been made entrusted to the trial court's discretion
and judgment, with due regard for all relevant circumstances. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.) “A single letter, followed
by a response which refuses concessions, might in some instances be an adequate
attempt at informal resolution, especially when a legitimate discovery
objective is demonstrated. The time available before the motion filing
deadline, and the extent to which the responding party was complicit in the
lapse of available time, can also be relevant. An evaluation of whether,
from the perspective of a reasonable person in the position of the discovering
party, additional effort appeared likely to bear fruit, should also be
considered” (Id. [emphasis added].) 
 
For purposes of determining whether a motion to compel
discovery was preceded by a reasonable and good faith effort to meet and
confer, such a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with opposing counsel; rather, the law requires
that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate.  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294)
 
The purpose of the meet and confer requirement under
C.C.P.§ 2016.040 is to “…to encourage the parties to work out their differences
informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal order...This, in turn,
will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the unnecessary expenditure of
resources by litigants through promotion of informal, extrajudicial resolution
of discovery disputes.” (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) 
 
Upon review of the parties submissions, the
Court finds the meet and confer efforts of Plaintiff were insufficient. A timeline
of Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts is documented below. 
 
·        
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff propounded his
RFPD Set One on Kia’s counsel via email. (Stocca Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. 3.) 
 
·        
On September 17, 2024, Kia served its
responses and accompanying responsive documents. (Stocca Decl. ¶ 17, Exh.
4; Raue Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that Kia’s responses are replete
with boilerplate objections and are not code compliant. (Id.) 
 
·        
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent
a meet and confer letter to Kia’s counsel via email. (Stocca Decl. ¶ 19,
Exh. 5.) In this letter, Plaintiff’s counsel appears to assert that each of
Kia’s responses to RFPD Nos. 1-31 is deficient. (Id.) Plaintiff’s
counsel addresses Kia’s objections in the aggregate, stating each to be without
merit without reference to any specific RFPD. (Id.) The letter then
proceeds to address the reason Plaintiff believes it is entitled to further
production as to several categories of RFPD. (Id.) The letter also
states that no responsive documents have been received, despite Kia having
served responsive documents alongside its responses. Plaintiff’s concluded by
requesting a written response and the availability of Kia’s counsel for a
telephonic meet and confer. (Id.) 
 
·        
On October 9, 2024, Kia’s counsel responded
to the meet and confer. (Raue Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) In this letter, Kia’s
counsel contends that Plaintiff’s initial letter was not issued in good faith.
(Id.) Kia’s counsel stated that Plaintiff’s letter provided little in
the way of guidance as to how Kia’s individual answers to the 31 RFPD were
deficient. (Id.) The letter concluded by requesting that Plaintiff’s
counsel contact Kia’s counsel telephonically to further meet and confer on the
substantive issues. (Id.) 
 
·        
On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent
another meet and confer letter. (Raue Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. C.) This letter is
referenced in Plaintiff’s moving papers but is only attached as an exhibit by
Kia in opposition. This letter appears to contain no reference to Plaintiff’s
RFPD, instead addressing California Rule of Court No. 3.724 (governing meet and
confer efforts prior to initial case management conferences). (Id.) 
 
·        
On November 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion. 
 
Here,
the record is clear that Plaintiff’s October 2 letter is his only attempt at meet
and confer correspondence as regards his RFPD.  Plaintiff’s October 23 letter simply does not
concern the discovery at issue here. As concerns the October 2 letter, the
Court finds it is insufficient to stand on its own as evidence of good faith
meet and confer. The letter contains no reference to Kia’s production or
responses, instead claiming Kia has produced no documents and addressing Kia’s
objections in the aggregate. Such statements are understandable, but more is
required to demonstrate that they were made in conjunction with a good faith
effort at informal resolution. 
 
Further,
Plaintiff appears to have ignored Kia’s agreement to telephonic meet and
confer. Plaintiff’s October 2 letter specifically requested telephonic meet and
confer, and Kia’s October 9 response indicated it was agreeable to such. Thereafter
Plaintiff remained silent and then filed this motion. This indicates to the
Court that Plaintiff’s counsel prematurely brought this motion despite
indications that Kia’s counsel was willing to discuss the matter further.  
 
In
short, the Court finds Plaintiff did not meet and confer sufficiently prior to
bringing this motion. Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts consist of a single
letter which makes no reference to Kia’s production. Despite Kia’s agreement to
telephonic meet and confer (specifically requested by Plaintiff’s letter),
Plaintiff’s counsel appears to have forgone such measures. Combined, these
facts indicate a lack of good faith meet and confer efforts. 
 
Given
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED without prejudiced. The Court
orders the parties further meet and confer. Should the parties be unable to
reach an informal resolution, Plaintiff is entitled to refile his motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Oscar Ruiz-Ramirez’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on January 2, 2025, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICED. 
 
THE
PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO FURTHER MEET AND CONFER. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 2, 2025                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------