 Case Number:  22SMCV02324    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT         207
HEARING DATE      October 31,
2023
CASE NUMBER       22SMCV02324
MOTION                    Motion for Leave to File Cross
Complaint 
MOVING PARTY     Defendant Nina
Loren Damjanovich
OPPOSING PARTY  Plaintiff Ben
Michael Tilden
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Nina Loren Damjanovich (“Defendant”) previously moved for
leave to file a cross-complaint to allege compulsory counterclaims against
Plaintiff Ben Michael Tilden (“Plaintiff.”) 
At the hearing on September 12, 2023, the Court determined that
Plaintiff had not been served with the notice of motion and motion, and
continued the hearing to October 31 to permit Defendant to properly serve
Plaintiff.  
 
Defendant re-filed the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint,
including a proof of service, indicating that Plaintiff was served
electronically via Plaintiff’s counsel at the email address arya@bmclaw.com on
September 14, 2023.  
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration,
indicating that neither counsel nor counsel’s office has yet received notice of
the motion or a copy of the proposed cross-complaint.  (Azizi Decl. ¶ 2.)  The declaration further indicates that after
being made aware of the motion at the September 13 status conference, Plaintiff’s
counsel reached out to Defendant’s counsel about potentially stipulating to the
proposed cross-complaint, but did not hear back.  (Azizi Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff therefore requests that the Court
deny Defendant’s request for lack of diligence.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
428.50 provides:
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
     
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30,
subdivision (a) provides:
 
Except as otherwise provided
by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails
to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time
of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:
 
A party who fails to plead a
cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through
oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the
court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert
such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice
to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff filed the complaint
against Defendant in this action on November 14, 2022, alleging two causes of
action: (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2) General Negligence; in connection with a
vehicular collision that occurred between Plaintiff and Defendant in September
2021.  Defendant filed an Answer on
January 6, 2023, but did not file a cross-complaint.  
 
            Defendant now seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint to allege two causes of action: (1) negligence and (2) motor
vehicle against Plaintiff in connection with the same vehicle collision
incident.  (See Proposed Cross-Complaint.)  Defendant’s counsel has attached an attorney
declaration to the Motion explaining that a cross-complaint was not filed at
the time of the Answer in this matter due to an unintentional “oversight and
lack of communication” on the part of the law office.  (De Soto Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            The Court finds that the failure to
file a cross-complaint with the Answer was the result of counsel’s oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, and neglect.  The provision
permitting leave is to be construed liberally to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.  Therefore, the Court is inclined
to grant Defendant’s request for leave to file the cross-complaint.
 
Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration indicating that they
did not actually receive the notice of motion, motion, or proposed
cross-complaint, Defendant provided a proof of service, signed under penalty of
perjury, indicating that counsel was electronically served on September 14,
2023.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel has had
actual notice of the pending motion since the September 12, 2023 hearing, and
could have retrieved copies from the docket. 

 
Conclusion
 
            Based upon the record, the
Court grants Defendant’s request for leave to file the cross-complaint and
deems the cross-complaint filed as of September 15, 2023.  Further, the Court orders Defendant to serve
the cross-complaint on Plaintiff via personal service on or before November 7,
2023.    
 
            Defendant
to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of the
same.
 
 
DATED:
October 31, 2023                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 