 Case Number:  23SMCV01959    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 31, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01959




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Barstow Outlet, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Merchants Barstow LLC



 
MOTION
 
This action stems from a commercial landlord-tenant dispute.  Plaintiff Merchants Barstow LLC (“Plaintiff”)
leases 24 buildings from Defendant Barstow Outlet, LLC (“Defendant”), each of
which Plaintiff subleases to separate cannabis businesses.  (FAC ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant misrepresented that these buildings
each had 800 AMPS of power capacity, which cannabis businesses require, when
they only had 400 AMPS of capacity, which is insufficient to run a cannabis
business.  (FAC ¶¶ 2-14.)  
 
In the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiff has asserted six
causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of warranty of
habitability; (3) intentional interference with prospective economic relations;
(4) negligent interference with prospective economic relations; (5) aiding and
abetting interference with prospective economic relations; and (6) fraud.  
 
Defendant demurs to the second through sixth causes of action pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) for failure to state
causes of action.  Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.    Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Warranty of Habitability
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds that (1)
the implied warranty of habitability applies only to residential leases, not
commercial leases, like the one at issue here; and (2) the terms of the lease
expressly disclaim any such warranty.  (Demurrer
at pp. 13-14.)  
 
Plaintiff concedes that generally there is no implied warranty of
habitability for commercial leases.   Yet
Plaintiff counters that under certain circumstances, the warranty of
habitability can apply to small commercial leases, and urges the Court to find
such an exception here.  Plaintiff also
argues that the lease’s express warranty disclaimer applies only to those
sections of the leased premises that Plaintiff is responsible for maintaining,
not those sections Defendant is responsible for maintaining.  
 
The cases upon which Plaintiff relies for the proposition that “the
warranty of habitability could […] extend to small commercial operations if the
facts warranted” are distinguishable.   Four
Seas Inv. Corp. v. Int’l Hotel Tenants’ Assn. (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 604, 613
involved a hotel that had both commercial and residential tenants, but the
defendant association membership “was exclusively residential, and its primary
purpose was to represent the rights of those residential tenants.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, the court found that the lease at issue
was residential and the warranty of habitability applied.  Similarly, in Golden v. Conway (1976)
55 Cal.App.3d 948, upon which Four Seas relies, involves an apartment
building, consisting of primarily residential units with only a few commercial
tenants.
 
By contrast, here, there is no residential component.  The premises at issue all involve purely commercial
cannabis businesses.  Therefore, the Court
finds that the warranty of habitability does not apply.[1] 
 
The Court therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause
of action.
 
B.    
Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action – Intentional
and Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Relations and
Aiding/Abetting
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: (1) the existence between plaintiff and a
third party of an economic relationship with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual
disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant’s action.  (Roy Allan Slurry
Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)  The elements of a cause of action for
negligent interference with prospective economic advantage are the same, except
the third element is that the defendant acted negligently, failing to exercise
due care.  (See National Medical
Transp. Network v. Deloitte & Touche (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 412, 439,
fn. 20.)  
 
Defendant argues (1) the alleged misrepresentation occurred prior to Plaintiff’s
relationship with its subtenants; (2) Plaintiff fails to allege an
intentionally wrongful act; (3) Plaintiff fails to allege a duty to support
negligent interference; and (4) without an underlying intentional or negligent
interference tort, the aiding and abetting cause of action also fails.
 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff
has alleged “an existing economic relationship with each of its tenants” (FAC ¶¶
35, 50); “Defendants were at all times aware of Plaintiff’s economic
relationships” (FAC ¶¶ 38, 51); Defendant’s knowing, intentional, and/or
negligent misrepresentation of the buildings’ power supply capabilities (FAC ¶¶
39, 53); and Defendant’s duty of care “to disclose fully all material facts
concerning the Property” (FAC ¶ 52). 
Thus, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the challenged elements of
intentional and negligent interference with prospective economic advantage.  Moreover, the fifth cause of action for
aiding and abetting does not fail for want of an underlying tort.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action.
 
C.    Sixth
Cause of Action – Fraud
 
“To establish a claim for
fraudulent misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove: ‘(1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was
false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that (1)
Plaintiff has not established reasonable reliance; and (2) Plaintiff failed to
plead Defendant’s knowledge with requisite specificity.
 
With regard to Defendant’s
knowledge, Plaintiff alleges the following:
 
·        
“As it
turns out, the Property has significantly less power capacity than what
Defendants claimed: the Property has approximately 400 AMPS of power per
building, which is nowhere near enough power to operate a cannabis cultivation,
manufacturing, or even a modern cannabis retail facility.” (FAC ¶¶ 7, 73.)
 
·        
“It is
clear that Defendants knew the Property did not have enough power supply to
support a high-volume cannabis operation, and that they represented otherwise
in order to induce Plaintiff into signing the Lease.”  (FAC ¶ 12.)
 
·        
“Defendants
knew that by emphasizing the Property’s high-power capacity, potential leases
like Plaintiff—all of whom needed a property that could support the power needs
of a large-scale cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, and retail
operation—would be assured that the Property could actually support those
uses.”  (FAC ¶ 70.)
 
·        
“Defendants
knew the Property did not have enough power supply to support a high-volume
cannabis operation, and that it represented otherwise in order to induce
Plaintiff into signing the Lease.” (FAC ¶ 75.)
 
·        
“These
representations by Defendants were false. 
Defendants lied to Plaintiff in order to induce Plaintiff to sign a
lease for Property Defendants knew could not possibly support its power needs.”  (FAC ¶ 76.)
 
·        
“In
other words, Defendants fraudulently induced Plaintiff to enter into the Lease
by making promises they knew were false.” 
(FAC ¶ 77.)
 
·        
“At the
time Defendants made these representations to Plaintiff, they knew they were
making false promises, representations, and guarantees.”  (FAC ¶ 80.)
 
Plaintiff does not allege any
specific, non-conclusory facts demonstrating that Defendant knew that the
Property lacked the advertised power capabilities when the representations were
made to support a claim for fraud. 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action.[2]
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden.  Although Plaintiff requests leave to amend,
Plaintiff does not indicate what, if any, additional facts it could add to the
complaint to cure these deficiencies.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrers to
the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action, and sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the second and sixth causes of action without leave to amend.    
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the FAC on or
before November 28, 2023.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  October 31, 2023                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


