 Case Number:  23SMCV01319    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 31, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01319




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker, Successor
  Trustee of the Albert Leon Family Trust dated September 3, 1997 as amended
  and restated




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker,
Successor Trustee of the Albert Leon Family Trust dated September 3, 1997 as
amended and restated (“Plaintiff”) owns two residential real properties that Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman (“Defendant”) resides in and occupies.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 7-9.)  
 
Plaintiff brought suit for public and private nuisance, waste, and
breach of contract, alleging Defendant is improperly running a commercial
cannabis business out of the two residential properties.  (See FAC.) 
Defendant has cross-complained for intentional interference with
expected inheritance, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and violation of Civil Code section
789.3.  (See Cross-Complaint.) 
 
Plaintiff now demurs to all four causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state a cause of action
and are uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f).  Plaintiff also
moves to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint.  Defendant opposes the demurrer and motion to
strike.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the (1) Plaintiff’s Complaint; (2) Defendant’s
Cross-Complaint; and (3) Plaintiff’s Notice of Motion and Motion to Strike
Portions of the Cross-Complaint, Memorandum of Points and Authorities, and
Khachikyan Declaration filed in this action. 
Defendant opposes on the grounds that the Court cannot properly take
judicial notice of the disputed arguments and facts presented in these
documents.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the Complaint, Cross-Complaint, Motion to Strike and attendant
documents are part of the Court’s record for this case, the Court may take
judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the Complaint, Cross-Complaint, Motion to
Strike and attendant documents filed in this matter as a court record, but not
the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Plaintiff moves to strike the following from the Cross-Complaint:
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 5-7: “Cross Complainant has
a life estate in the real properties which are the basis of the 1st Amended
Complaint, 3760 Military Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90034 and 10963 Venice Blvd Los
Angeles, CA 90034” 
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 7-9: “Cross Defendant has
sought to deny Cross Complainant his life estate in said premises and to commit
acts meant to drive cross complainant out of possession of said premises in
which Cross Complainant has a life estate in.”
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 13-15: “These acts on the
part of the Cross Defendant interfered with Cross Complainant’s use and
enjoyment of the premises for the purposes contemplated by his life estate.”
 
·        
Paragraph 11, lines 22-26: “Based on information
and belief Cross Complainant further alleges that just prior to Decedent’s
death, Cross Defendant removed Ninety Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($90,000.00)
of cash from Decedent’s residence, appropriated, converted and carried away
said currency and has not included that cash as a Trust asset for distribution
among the beneficiaries or otherwise segregated that asset.”
 
Plaintiff contends the allegations that Defendant has a life estate in
the subject properties should be stricken as false, and the allegations about
the $90,000 should be stricken as false and irrelevant.  Plaintiff has attached to the opposition
various property deeds to purportedly demonstrate that Defendant does not have
a life estate in the subject properties and an accounting, demonstrating that
the $90,000 was not misappropriated, but was fully accounted for.
 
Whether Defendant has a life estate in one or both of the subject
properties, and whether the $90,000 was misappropriated are factual questions
to be resolved at later stages of the litigation, following discovery.  The Court cannot, at this stage of the
litigation, strike disputed allegations as false.  Moreover, the misappropriation allegations
are directly relevant to Defendant’s allegations that Plaintiff interfered with
Defendant’s expected inheritance.  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to strike.
 
2.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Plaintiff does not demonstrate that any portions of the Cross-Complaint
are so bad that Plaintiff cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against Plaintiff.  The Court overrules Plaintiff’s demurrer to
the Cross-Complaint on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Intentional Interference with an Expected Inheritance
 
The tort of intentional
interference with expected inheritance has six elements: (1) expectancy of an
inheritance; (2) defendant’s interference caused the lack of inheritance; (3) defendant
had knowledge of plaintiff’s expectancy and took deliberate action to
interfere; (4) the underlying conduct must be independently tortious; (5) damages;
and (6) defendant must direct the independently tortious conduct at someone
other than the plaintiff.  (Gomez v.
Smith (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1025-26.)
 
Plaintiff argues that
Defendant fails to plead the elements of expectancy and interference because
the allegations that support these elements are properly stricken, pursuant to
Plaintiff’s concurrent motion to strike. 

 
As discussed above, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion to strike. 
With respect to the expectancy element, Defendant alleges “Cross
Complainant had an expectancy of an inheritance through the administration of
the Trust established by his grandfather Albert Leon and in which Cross
Complainant’s deceased mother was named as a beneficiary.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 15.)  With respect to interference, Defendant
alleges:
 
·        
“Cross
Defendant removed Ninety Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($90,000.00) of cash from
Decedent’s residence, appropriated, converted and carried away said currency
and has not included that cash as a Trust asset Damages” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 11);

 
·        
“The
bequest or devise would have been in effect at the time of the death of Cross
Complainant’s grand father and would have been inherited by Cross Complainant
but for Cross Defendant’s wrongful interference with said inheritance.”
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 16); 
 
·        
“Cross
Defendant converted Trust assets for her personal use that Cross Complainant
would have otherwise received and violated her duties as Trustee in doing so
including the interference in the life estate Cross Complainant has over the
premises.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 18.)
 
Therefore, Defendant has
adequately pled allegations regarding the expectancy and interference elements.
 
Plaintiff also contends
Defendant fails to adequately plead damages, because the allegation that “Cross
Complainant was damaged by the Cross-Defendant’s interference, suffering
emotional distress and special damages subject to proof at trial” is too conclusory
and uncertain.
 
The Court disagrees.  The challenged allegations contain sufficient
ultimate facts of damages to withstand demurrer.[1]
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
Cause of Action – Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
 
Absent language to the
contrary, “every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299-1300.) 
The covenant is binding on successors in interest.  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank Nat’l Trust Co.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291.)  
 
“To be actionable, the
landlords act or omission must substantially interfere with a tenants right to use
and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.”  (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.)  “The
perpetrator of the interference with the tenants quiet enjoyment need not be
the landlord personally. There may be an actionable breach where the
interference is caused by a neighbor or tenant claiming under the landlord.”  (Id. at p. 590.)  “This covenant is breached upon actual or
constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Ibid.)  “Any interference by the landlord that
deprives the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises or renders the
premises unfit for the purposes for which they are let amounts to a
constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and vacates within a reasonable
time.”  (Ibid.)  
 
However, “the tenant need not
vacate the property before bringing an action for breach of the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment.”  (Marchese
v. Standard Realty & Dev. Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 145.)  Interference with the water supply can
establish a breach of the covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.  (Id. at pp. 148-149.)
 
Plaintiff argues (1) it is
uncertain which property or properties Defendant alleges the breach occurred;
(2) Defendant does not allege who owns the properties; (3) Defendant does not
allege any lease; and (4) Defendant does not allege whether Defendant vacated
the premises.
 
Defendant alleges he has a
life estate in both properties, which the Cross-Complaint defines as the
“premises” and Plaintiff has interfered with Defendant’s use and enjoyment of the
“premises.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 13, 21.)  Therefore, and as discussed above, the Court
declines to sustain the demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.
 
Similarly, the Cross-Complaint
need not specify whether Defendant vacated the premises, because vacating the
premises is not an essential element of the cause of action.
 
However, the Court agrees with
the balance of Plaintiff’s arguments. 
Defendant does not allege who owns the properties, or who the landlord
is.  Defendant argues that paragraphs 9
through 13 of the Cross-Complaint establish that the Trust owns the properties,
but nowhere does the Cross-Complaint actually allege that the premises at issue
are owned by the Trust, although this allegation appears in Plaintiff’s amended
complaint.  (See FAC ¶ 7.)  
 
Similarly, Defendant alleges
only to have a life estate in the premises. 
Nowhere in the Cross-Complaint does Defendant allege the existence of a
lease, although this allegation also appears in Plaintiff’s amended Complaint.  (See FAC ¶¶ 10-11.)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action in the cross-complaint.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third Cause of Action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].) Further, the defendant’s conduct must be “intended to
inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Id.
at p. 1051 [cleaned up].) 
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant
fails to state a cause of action for IIED because the allegations are
conclusory.  The Court disagrees.  
 
Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff “flooded with water the garage to the Military property causing
extensive mold damage” and “directed a utility provider to turn off water
service” in order to “drive cross complainant out of possession of said
premises.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 13.)  Defendant alleges this “extreme and
outrageous conduct [was] perpetrated with the intention of causing, or in
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress to Cross
Complainant.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶
25.)  Defendant further alleges “Cross
Complainant suffered severe or extreme emotional distress” and that “Cross
Defendant’s outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the
emotional distress inflicted on Cross Complainant.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 26-27.)  Finally, Defendant alleges “Cross Defendant’s
conduct was extreme and exceeded all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community and was intended to inflict injury or was engaged in with
the realization that injury would result as plead in this Cross
Complaint.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 28.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has pled sufficient
“ultimate facts” to state a cause of action for IIED.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Fourth Cause of Action – Violation of Civil
Code § 789.3
 
Civil Code section 789.3, subdivision (a) provides, “A landlord shall
not with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease or other tenancy or
estate at will, however created, of property used by a tenant as his residence
willfully cause, directly or indirectly, the interruption or termination of any
utility service furnished the tenant, including, but not limited to, water,
heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone, elevator, or refrigeration, whether
or not the utility service is under the control of the landlord.”  
 
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
allegations are too conclusory and that the landlord of the property is
Plaintiff, in her capacity as Successor Trustee of the Trust, not in her
individual capacity, and as such, the fourth cause of action should be
dismissed as to Plaintiff in her individual capacity.
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges,
“Cross Defendant did with intent to terminate the occupancy under Cross
Complainant’s life estate of the premises used by Cross Complainant as his
residence, willfully caused, directly or indirectly, the interruption or
termination of a utility service furnished to Cross Complainant, including, but
not limited to, water.”  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 30.)  The allegations of Plaintiff’s
wrongful conduct are sufficient to withstand demurrer.  
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s
personal liability, “A trustee is personally liable for obligations arising
from ownership or control of trust property only if the trustee is personally
at fault.”  (Prob. Code, § 18001.)  Similarly, “A trustee is personally liable
for torts committed in the course of administration of the trust only if the
trustee is personally at fault.”  (Prob.
Code, § 18002.)  
 
Here, Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff personally flooded the garage and contacted the utility company to
have the water shut off.  (See FAC  20 13.) 
Therefore, Defendant has pleaded allegations which, if true, could
establish Plaintiff’s personal liability.
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Defendant does not address whether leave should be granted if
either the demurrer is sustained or the motion to strike is granted.  Notwithstanding, Plaintiff has alleged, both
in Plaintiff’s amended complaint and in the Demurrer that the Trust owns the
properties, that Plaintiff, as Trustee, is the landlord of the properties, and
that Defendant rents the properties. 
Thus, there appear in the record facts that Defendant could add to the
Cross-Complaint to cure the identified deficiencies.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike
in its entirety.
 
Further, the Court overrules Plaintiff’s Demurrers to the First,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action, and sustains Plaintiff’s Demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action with leave to amend. 
  
 
Defendant shall file and serve an amended cross-complaint, in
conformance with the Court’s ruling on or before November 21, 2023.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  October 31, 2023                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


