  Case Number:  22SMCV01356    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Skylark (UK) Servicing LLC v.
Hadid, et al.



Case No.:


22SMCV01356


Complaint Filed:


8-17-22           




Hearing Date:


4-16-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


4


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO FACC WITHOUT MOTION
TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Cross-Defendants Skylark
Capital Management, LLC, Zachary Vella, and Vella Group, LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Cross-Complainant Tree
Lane, LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Cross-Defendants
Skylark Capital Management, LLC, Zachary Vella, and Vella Group, LLC Demurrer to
the 1st –10th and 12th–15th causes
of actions in Cross-Complainant Tree Lane LLC’s Cross-Complaint, without motion
to strike is OVERRULED. Cross-Complainant Tree Lane, LLC sufficiently pleads
all the elements of the 1st –10th and 12th–15th
causes of actions as to Cross-Defendants Skylark Capital Management, LLC,
Zachary Vella, and Vella Group, LLC
 
            Cross-Defendants
Skylark Capital Management, LLC, Zachary Vella, and Vella Groups’ Objections
are OVERRULED.
 
I.               
Demurrer to the 1st cause of action
for Breach of Contract as to Vella and Vella Group - OVERRULED
 
            The essential elements of breach
of contract are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
            “[I]t is
generally stated that in order to prevail on an alter-ego theory, the plaintiff
must show that “(1) there is such a unity of interest that the separate
personalities of the corporations no longer exist; and (2)
inequitable results will follow if the corporate separateness is
respected.” (Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
Vella and Vella Group (“Vella Parties”) argue they are not parties to the loan
agreement, and Cross-Complainant Tree Lane, LLC (“Tree Lane”) did not plead
they were parties to the loan agreement, thus the action fails as a matter of
law as to the Vella Parties. (Demurrer, pp. 14–15.) Tree Lane argues they have
plead an alter ego liability theory between Cross-Defendant Skylark Capital
Management, LLC (“Skylark”) and the Vella Parties (collectively the
“Cross-Defendants”). (Oppo., pp. 3–4.)
 
            The Court
finds that Tree Lane has sufficiently alleged its alter ego theory of liability
as to the Vella Parties.  The breach of
contract claim, therefore, does not fail as a matter of law against the Vella
Parties. (See Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 235–236 [reversing sustained demurrer and finding that alter
ego theory supports maintaining breach of contract claim against individual
defendant].) Tree Lane specifically alleges ultimate facts to reach alter ego
liability for the Vella Parties by pleading Skylark diverted funds to the Vella
Parties, Skylark was underfunded, and Skylark was without funds to meet its
obligations as a result of the diverted funds. (FACC, ¶¶ 74, 75, 77.) Thus,
Tree Lane has sufficiently pleaded an alter ego theory of liability as to the
Vella Parties. The Demurrer to the 1st cause of action for breach of
contract is OVERRULED. 
 
II.            
Demurrer to 2nd cause of action for
breach of implied covenant of good faith - OVERRULED
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that the Vella Parties are not a party to the contract, and therefore, a
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing must fail as a
matter of law. Tree Lane, however, has adequately pleaded alter ego liability
as to the Vella Parties. 
 
            The
Cross-Defendants argument that this cause of action is duplicative of the
breach of contract claim is unpersuasive. Both counts may overlap, “but this
does necessarily mean that the gravamen of the two counts is the same,” and
further both causes of action are usually plead separately. (See (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
885. [“Although breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded as a separate
count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach of contract”].)


            Cross-Defendants
argue that the tort of a breach of a covenant of good faith and fair dealing
applies only in the context of insurance contracts. or where parties are in a
special relationship, and Tree Lane has not plead either situation. (Demurrer,
p. 15.)  The Court agrees.  Tree Lane has failed to plead a separate
tortious breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Regardless, the demurrer to this cause of
action is overruled without prejudice hearing an appropriate motion to strike
the claim for tort damages under this cause of action, if necessary.
            
            The
Demurrer to the 2nd cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is OVERRULED
 
III.          
Demurrer to 3rd cause of action for
Fraud and 4th cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
            "A
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false
representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance;
(3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages. Every
element must be specifically pleaded. [citations omitted]" (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1807, 1816.)
 
            “Where
the defendant makes false statements, honestly believing that they are true,
but without reasonable ground for that belief, he or she may be liable for
negligent misrepresentation. If, however, defendant's belief is both honest and
reasonable, the misrepresentation is innocent and there is ordinarily no tort
liability.” (5 Witkin, Summary of California Law (2005) Torts, §818.)
 
            “Negligent
misrepresentation requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and
the tortfeasor's lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be
true. It also requires the tortfeasor's intent to induce reliance, justifiable
reliance by the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and
damages to that person. [citation] An implied assertion of fact is not enough
to support liability.” (SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154.)
 
            Here,
Tree Lane pleads specific facts to allege Cross-Defendants made a knowingly
false representation to Tree Lane with the intent to deceive regarding the funding
of the loan, for example “falsely assuring that Loan would be made, with no
intention of actually making the loan and reasonable grounds for believing that
the loan could be made.” (FACC, ¶¶ 127–130.) Tree Lane pleads justifiable
reliance that these Cross-Defendants misrepresentations induced Tree Lane to
enter in the Loan Agreements with Cross-Defendants, resulting in damages to
Tree Lane. (See FACC ¶¶ 126–136.) Tree Lane also pleads a separate and
additional basis for a fraud claim whereabout Cross-Defendants allegedly fraudulently
engaged in a scheme to obtain the 1 Acre Lot from Tree Lane. (See FACC, ¶¶
136–138.)
 
            Tree
Lane alleges specific facts to sufficiently plead a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation through stating Cross-Defendants falsely assured
Tree Lane the Loan funds would be disbursed, with no intention of actually
disbursing or “making the loan and no reasonably grounds for believing the loan
would be made.” (Oppo, p. 6; see FAC, ¶¶ 148–150.) Tree Lane alleges inducement,
justifiable reliance and damages. (See FACC, ¶¶ 150–153.)
 
            Thus,
Tree Lane has stated specific facts to successfully plead causes of action for
fraud and negligent misrepresentation. The demurrers to the 3rd and
4th causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
IV.          
Demurrer to 5th cause of action for
negligent disbursement – OVERRULED
 
      “[D]espite
the contractual basis of the bank-depositor relationship, a bank can be subject
to tort liability to a depositor for misconduct in connection with an account.
A bank may be liable in negligence if it fails to discharge its contractual
duties with reasonable care.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 727, 741.)
 
      Cross-Defendants
argue this is not an actionable tort since the lenders do not have duties of
care to their borrowers, and the economic loss rule bars the cause of action. (Demurrer,
pp. 17–19.) The Court finds these arguments unpersuasive. Courts have found
that construction lenders and banks have a duty of care to their borrowers.
(See Das, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at 741; see also Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (“Jolly”) (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th 872,
899 [court applied six non-exhaustive factors to analyze whether a construction
lender breached a duty of care to the borrower].) It is not appropriate at the
demurrer stage to analyze the Jolly factors, as this analysis is a
matter of fact. 
 
      Tree
Lane alleges tort claims independent of the underlying contracts, as in fraud
and negligent misrepresentation, and thus the causes of action are not barred
by the economic loss rule at the demurrer stage. (See Robinson Helicopter
Co., Inc., v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991 [“the economic loss
rule does not bar [the plaintiff’s] fraud and intentional misrepresentation
claims because they were independent of [the defendant’s] breach of contract”];
Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 [“[t]ort damages have been
permitted in contract cases” when “the duty that gives rise to tort liability
is either completely independent of the contract or arises from conduct which
is both intentional and intended to harm”].)
 
            Tree Lane
has sufficiently plead alter-ego liability as to the Vella Parties and thus this
cause of action is also appropriate for the Vella Parties.  The Court is not satisfied that the Vella
parties have shown they cannot be held liable for negligence as an alter ego of
Skylark.
 
V.             
Demurrer to 6th cause of action for unfair
competition – OVERRULED

            “A party filing a motion,
except for a motion listed in rule 3.1114, must serve and file a supporting
memorandum. The court may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission
that the motion or special demurrer is not meritorious and cause for its denial
and, in the case of a demurrer, as a waiver of all grounds not supported.” (CA
ST CIVIL RULES Rule 3.1113, subd. (a).)
 
The Cross-Defendants do not provide
any arguments for their demurrer to the 6th cause of action and thus
the demurrer is overruled pursuant CRC 3.1113(a). Further, the demurrer for
this cause of action was not listed in the notice of the motion. 
 
VI.          
Demurrer to the 7th cause of action
for accounting - OVERRULED
 
            An action
for an accounting has two elements: (1) “that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting” and (2) “that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” (Sass
v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 869.)
 
            Here, Tree
Lane pleads a contractual relationship exists between themselves and Skylark,
and an alter ego relationship between Skylark and the Vella Parties, which
requires an accounting. (FACC, ¶¶ 44–49, 109, 174.) Tree Lane pleads that the
Cross-Defendants engaged in “fraudulent practices . . . such that a balance of
damages due from the Skylark Parties to Cross-Complainant can only be
ascertained by an accounting, including an overpayment of interest from
Cross-Complainant to Cross-Defendants, which must be returned to Cross Complainant,
and as to damages owed to Cross-Defendants.” (FAC, ¶ 174.) 
 
            Thus, a
claim for accounting has been satisfactorily plead as to the Cross-Defendants.
The Demurrer to the 7th cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
VII.        
Demurrer to the 8th cause of action
for slander of title and 10th cause of action for cancellation of instrument.

 
            “The
elements of a cause of action for slander of title are (1) a publication, (2)
which is without privilege or justification, (3) which is false, and
(4) which causes direct and immediate pecuniary loss.” (Alpha & Omega
Development, LP v. Whillock Contracting, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 656,
664.)
 
            "To
prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the
instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a
reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the
prejudicial alteration of one's position." (Thompson v. Ioane
(2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1193–1194; see Civ. Code, § 3412 ["A written
instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left
outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or
voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be
delivered up or canceled."].)
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the 8th and 10th causes of action for slander of
title and cancellation of written instrument respectively as to the Vella
Parties only, solely on the grounds that Vella Parties did not record the
documents at issue, and the Vella Parties are not the beneficiary of the
documents. (Demurrer, p. 19.) However, as discussed in Section I, Tree Lane has
plead an alter ego theory between the Vella Parties and Skylark, plus Tree Lane
alleges that Tree Lane’s funds and property were diverted for the benefit of
the Vella Parties. (See supra, Section I; FACC, ¶ 77.)  Whether or not the Vella Parties recorded the
written instruments at issue are not factual elements that need to be alleged
to plead these causes of action. 
 
            The
Demurrer to the 8th and 10th causes of action are
OVERRULED. 
 
VIII.     
Demurrer to the 9th cause of action
for violation of penal code § 496(a) - OVERRULED
 
            “Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a
county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170.” (Pen. Code §496(a).)
 
            Theft is
defined in Penal Code §484(a). “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take,
carry, lead, or drive away the personal property of another, or who shall
fraudulently appropriate property which has been entrusted to him or her, or
who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation
or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal
property…is guilty of theft.” Pen. Code §484(a).
 
            Here,
Tree Lane pleads that Skylark made false representations to Tree Lane which
ultimately led to Tree Lane signing documents that Skylark later falsified to
include information which led to the Vella Parties acquiring the 1Acre Lot
rather than effectuating a subdivision as represented to Tree Lane. (See FACC,
¶¶ 189–192.) Thus, Tree Lane has sufficiently plead this claim.
 
            The
Demurrer to the 9th cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
IX.          
Demurrer to the 12th cause of action
for usury - OVERRULED
 
            “The
essential elements of usury are: (1) The transaction must be a loan or
forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must exceed the statutory maximum; (3)
the loan and interest must be absolutely repayable by the borrower; and (4) the
lender must have a willful intent to enter into a usurious transaction.” (Ghirardo
v. Antonioli (1994) 8 Cal.4th 791, 798, as modified on denial of reh'g
(Feb. 2, 1995).)
 
            Corporations
Code Sections 25118 (b) and (a) provide exemptions to the usury provision of
the California Constitution when the parties “have a preexisting or personal or
personal business relationship.” (Corp. Code, § 25118, subd. (f)(1).) Section
25118(b)(1) provides an exemption when:
 
The evidences of indebtedness aggregate
at the time of issuance at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) in
original face amount, or, if the evidences of indebtedness are purchased with
original issue discount, they are purchased for an aggregate purchase price at
the time of issuance of at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000).
 
(Corp. Code, §25118, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
            Corporations
Code Section 25118(a) provides an exemption when:
 
An evidence of indebtedness issued by
an entity or guaranteed by an entity that is an affiliate (as defined in
Section 150) of the borrower that, on the day the evidence of indebtedness
issued or guaranty is first issued or entered into, has total assets of at
least two million dollars ($2,000,000) according to its then most recent
financial statements, and the purchasers or holders thereof, shall be exempt
from the usury provisions of the California Constitution.
 
(Corp. Code, §25118, subd. (a).) 
 
            The
Cross-Defendants argue that an exemption under Corporations Code § 25118
applies because the Loan was more than $300,000.00, Tree Lane’s assets at the
time of the Loan were admittedly more than $2 million, and Tree lane plead a
preexisting relationship to reach this exemption. (Demurrer, pp. 21–22; see FACC
¶¶ 9, 10a.iii, 30, 53)
 
            The Court
finds that the FACC does not allege a pre-existing business relationship, but
instead alleges multiple business deals happening at or around the same time as
the deal at issue. (See FACC, ¶ 10(a)(iii) [“Tree Lane alleges that the Skylark
Parties’ attempt to take Tree Lane’s Property by causing Tree Lane to default
on the Loan repayment is supported by Skylark’s separate, but related, “loan to
own scheme” actions around the same time in 2018 regarding a different
loan. In that matter (“Cedarbrook”), in or around the same time frame,
Skylark similarly targeted another company affiliated with Hadid with a similar
predatory loan offer (the “Cedarbrook Loan”), to develop a separate real
property (sometimes, the “Cedarbrook Property”)”].) 
 
            Cross-defendants
do not provide any authority as whether Courts interpret business happening at
or around the same time as one another constitutes pre-existing business
relationships. The Court is not satisfied at this stage the Corporations Code §
25118 exemption applies.
 
The Demurrer to the 12th
cause of action for usury is OVERRULED.
 
I.               
Demurrer to 13th CAUSE OF ACTION for Declaratory
Relief as to Vella and Vella Defendants only –OVERRULED
 
“To allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for declaratory relief, the plaintiff must allege two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or
obligations of a party.” (Childhelp, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 224, 235, as modified (May 5, 2023), [internal citations
omitted].)
 
Cross-Defendants argue this cause
of action is duplicative of the other causes of action including breach of
contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and slander
of title, and thus is improper. (Demurrer, p. 22.) Tree Lane argues this is incorrect
as complaint may plead alternative theories of recovery. (Oppo., pp. 11–12.) The
Court find that a complaint may plead alternative forms of recovery. (See Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388  [“it is true that modern rules of pleading
generally permit plaintiffs to set forth alternative theories in varied and
inconsistent counts.”]; see also Eichler Homes of San Mateo, Inc. v.
Superior Court of San Mateo County (1961) 55 Cal.2d 845, 847 [“The same
cause of action, of course, may be stated variously in separate counts.”].)


Cross-Defendants argue that the
Vella Parties specifically are improper parties to this cause of action since
they are not a party to any contract nor the beneficiaries on any recorded
instrument (Demurrer, p. 22.) The Court finds that Tree Lane has sufficiently
alleged an alter ego theory as to the Vella Parties and Skylark, thus the Vella
Parties are proper parties to this cause of action at the demurrer stage. (See supra,
Section I.)
 
The Court finds that Tree Lane has
properly plead an actual controversy that requires declaratory relief against Cross-Defendants.
The Demurrer to the 13th cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 
II.            
Demurrer to 14th CAUSE OF ACTION for 15th
CAUSE OF ACTION for Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations –OVERRULED

 
“The elements which a
plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a
third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.” (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 55, as modified (Sept. 23, 1998).)
 
“The tort duty not to interfere with the contract
falls only on strangers—interlopers who have no legitimate interest in the
scope or course of the contract's performance.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.) “It is also well
established that corporate agents and employees acting for and on behalf of a
corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the corporation's
contract.” (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 24.) “[T]he “agent's
immunity rule” has no direct applicability to a claim for interference with
contract rights. The rule is simply that “duly acting agents and employees
cannot be held liable for conspiring with their own principals....” (Mintz
v. Blue Cross of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1605.)
 
Tree Lane pleads there was a valid contract between Tree
Lane and Skylark, and other third parties including Lydda Lud, and “various
contractors, sub-contractors and suppliers. (FACC, ¶¶ 231, 237.) Tree Lane
pleads that Cross-Defendants knew of the contracts. (FACC, ¶ 232, 240.) Tree
Lane pleads Cross-Defendants intentional acts to induce the breach, actual
breach, and the resulting damage. (FACC, ¶¶ 77, 232, 239, 240.) Tree Lane
pleads actions of the Cross-Defendants “interfered with the 1 Acre Lot PSA” or
the contract. (FACC, ¶¶ 324, 235 240.)  Thus, Tree Lane has successfully plead a cause
of action for Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations as to
Cross-Defendants within both the 14th and 15th causes of
action. 
 
The Demurrer to the 14th
and 15th causes of action is OVERRULED. 