 Case Number:  22STCV19882    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  T 22STCV19882
Laguna v Capital
Tentative
ruling: Motion to strike jury demand set for hearing 12/18/2023 – Deny.  There is no trial date set.  Some defendants have only answered the
complaint in November 2023.  There is no
prejudice to anyone. 
This court
liberally supports the Constitutional right to a jury trial.  Despite
statutes or rules to the contrary, the Constitution’s right to a jury trial is
set out in the strongest possible terms.  Here, there is no trial date set
in this case.  There is no prejudice to defendants in having a jury trial
but there would be great prejudice to plaintiffs.  The court believes that
in the absence of a statement filed with the court in which the plaintiff has
clearly indicated a waiver of jury trial, the court should grant one.  No
such jury waiver was filed, and fees were deposited over 3 months ago. The
demand for jury was clearly stated in the complaint filed on 6/17/2022. 
The court notes that the moving papers were not served on plaintiff’s then
current counsel of record.  In other words, moving parties missed a
deadline.  Despite this issue being raised in the opposition, moving party
ignores it on reply.  Presumably, despite missing the deadline on timely
serving the moving papers on plaintiff’s counsel of record, moving parties
still expect the court to consider the improperly served papers.
“I consider
trial by jury as the only anchor ever yet imagined by man, by which government
can be held to the principles of its constitution.”  Thomas Jefferson,
1788.
“What many
of those who oppose the use of juries in civil trials seem to ignore is that
the founders of our Nation considered the right of trial by jury in civil cases
an important bulwark against tyranny and corruption, a safeguard too precious
to be left to the whim of the sovereign, or, it might be added, to that of the
judiciary.” William Rehnquist
This court
finds it would be an abuse of discretion to grant defendants’ motion to strike
the plaintiff’s right to a jury, both because of lack of prejudice and
improperly served moving papers. Moreover, plaintiff’s prior counsel
erroneously filed this case with a PI designation instead of a wrongful
termination designation resulting in the case not being assigned to an I/C
court and not having a CMC scheduled.  Accordingly, when the parties
appear for their Trial Setting Conference on 12/18/2023, the parties should
expect that a jury trial will be set. 