 Case Number:  23VECV02400    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV02400 MYRIAM GISELA
FLORES, et al. vs ZINA T TEHRANI
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Tak & Associates’ Demurrer to
the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND only as to the eight
cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defect identified and not to add new causes of action.
Introduction 
Defendant Tak & Associates
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Myriam Gisela Flores, Jacob Santiago Danel,
Madeline Gyssell Villagrana, and Myridean Ruth Flores, by and through her
guardian ad litem, Myriam Gisela Flores’ (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.  Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue all
ten causes of action (COA) alleged in the Complaint: negligent maintenance of
premises, nuisance, breach of warranty of habitability, breach of covenant of
quiet enjoyment, negligent violations of statutory and legal duties,
negligence, premises liability, breach of contract, retaliatory eviction common
law, and violation of Civil Code section 1940.2.  
Discussion  
Defendant argued that Plaintiffs’
allegation that Defendant is an owner, operator, and manager of the property
(Compl. pars. 10-12, 14-16) but the attached Lease does not reference Defendant
as a contracting party or signatory. 
When factual allegations in the Complaint are contradicted by facts
alleged in the attached exhibits, the facts in the attached exhibits take
precedence.  Because the attached Lease
identified the lessor/landlord/contracting party/signatory as Defendant “Zina
Tehrani c/o Reza Tak,” the attached Lease contradicts Plaintiffs’ allegation
that Defendant owned the property.  At
most, the conflict in factual allegations merely presented a defect in the
breach of contract COA.  The facts in the
attached Lease do not present any dispute as to Plaintiffs’ allegation that
Defendant operated or managed the property. 
Despite Defendant’s contention otherwise, the allegation of operator and
manager are not conclusory but allegations of ultimate fact.  Plaintiffs’ alleged that they suffered sewage
floods, water intrusion, lacked heating and air conditioning, rat infestation,
electricity shut offs by Defendants, missing range hood, withholding/destroying
Plaintiffs’ mail, failure to  provide
lockable mailbox, destroying Plaintiffs’ mailbox, mold, and loud music.  (Compl. par. 20.)  The factual allegations present grounds to
hold a manager liable for failures in maintaining the property.  These allegations are the basis for all other
nine COAs.  The Complaint sufficiently
pled factual allegations to support all COAs except for breach of contract
against Defendant.
The demurrer is only persuasive
as to the eighth COA for breach of contract and otherwise unpersuasive.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND only as to the eight COA and otherwise OVERRULED.  
 