  Case Number:  19STCV37977    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  T  
19STCV37977 MAGDALENA
FATIMA SALINAS, et al. vs TRANSIT SYSTEM
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant and Cross-Defendant US Bus Charter
& Limo Inc.’s Motion for Leave to File the Cross-Complaints is GRANTED.
Defendant and Cross-Defendant US
Bus Charter & Limo Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Defendant and Cross-Defendant US
Bus Charter & Limo Inc. (Coachways) moved for leave to file
Cross-Complaints in four actions filed by various Plaintiffs in the following
actions:  19STCV41653, 20STCV39458, 20STCV37023,
and 20STCV17386.  The proposed
Cross-Complaints are alleged against Defendants Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc.
(TSUI) and Ofelia Sandoval Rodriguez (Rodriguez) (collectively, Transit
Systems.)
Discussion  
Coachways’ legal authority for
the motion is Code of Civil Procedure sections 426.50, 428.50(c), and
428.10(b)(2).  If the proposed
cross-complaint is compulsory (i.e., related to the subject matter of the
complaint or arises out of the plaintiff’s claimed transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences), a motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint can be made at “any time during the course of the action” and
must be granted so long as defendant acted in good faith.  (Sec. 426.50; Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (Silver Organizations).)  Cross-complaints against a co-defendant must
assert a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the claim brought against him. 
(Sec. 428.10(b)(2).)  The proposed
cross-complaints seek indemnification from Transit Systems as to the multiple
Plaintiffs’ claims for injury arising from the same bus accident.  Because the proposed claims arise out of the
same bus accident, there is sufficient showing of subject matter relationship
between Plaintiffs’ complaints and the proposed cross-complaints.  Because the claims in the proposed
cross-complaints are related to Plaintiffs’ complaints, the proposed
cross-complaints are compulsory.  Because
the proposed cross-complaints are compulsory, the Court must grant the motion
so long as Coachways acted in good faith. 

“Substantial evidence of bad
faith will obviously negate good faith, the latter being the sine qua non to
the granting of a section 426.50 motion. It is therefore necessary to examine
the amorphous concept of bad faith.  'Bad
faith' is defined as '[t]he opposite of ”good faith,“ generally implying or
involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] ... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather ...
the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity;
... it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design
or ill will. [Citation.]' [Citations.]” [Citation.]”  (Silver Organizations, supra, (1990) 217 Cal
App. 3d at p. 100.)  Nothing in Transit
Systems opposition presented any evidence to show a conscious wrongdoing
because of a dishonest purpose or moral obliquity.  Transit Systems asserted an alleged
untimeliness in bringing the motion but Coachways explained that the delay in
bringing the motion was due to Transit Systems failure to respond and Coachways
recent discovery that Transit Systems’ insurer is refusing
indemnification.  Transit Systems further
argued the merits of the proposed cross-complaints but defenses to the proposed
cross-complaints do not amount to ill-will in brining the motion.  Lastly, Transit Systems argued that another
action is pending against Transit Systems’ insurer and insurance broker.  But filing a separate action against parties
other than Transit Systems is merely Coachways exercising their rights to file
a claim/lawsuit and not seen as conscious wrongful conduct.  Coachways is seen to have brought the motion
in good faith.
 Coachways arguments based upon the Court’s
discretionary authority for permissive cross-complaints under Section 428.50,
subdivision (c) is MOOT and not considered due to the analysis above regarding
the Court’s mandatory authority for compulsive cross-complaints.   Transit Systems’ arguments asserting the
inapplicability of Section 428.50, subdivisions (a) and (b) are straw-man
arguments because the two subdivisions were not legal authorities cited as
grounds for the motion.  Transit Systems
also argued that the controlling legal authority should be Section 428.50,
subdivision (c).  However, the
controlling legal authority, as reviewed above, are Sections 426.50 and 428.10,
subdivision (b)(2).  The Court did not
consider Section 428.50 because the proposed cross-complaints are not seen to
be permissive.  Because the Court did not
consider Section 428.50 as the basis of its ruling, Trans Systems’ arguments as
to reasonable diligence and/or excuse in not bringing the motion earlier (even
if proper legal authority had been cited) are inconsequential.  Transit Systems’ arguments as to Section
428.50 and the interest of justice miss the point and are unpersuasive.  (Transit Systems’ “legal authority” to
support their contention that reasonable diligence is required to bring the
motion only cited to the Rutter Guide, which is not binding legal
authority.  See Oppo. pg. 3:1-2.)
Transit Systems also argued a
defense to the substance of the proposed cross-complaints.  Transit Systems argued that the language of
the Certificate of Liability Insurance undermined Coachways’ alleged grounds
for indemnity.  However, Transit Systems
failed to present any legal authority that would allow the Court to review the
merits of the proposed cross-complaints when reviewing the instant motion.  Without legal authority showing authorization
to review the merits of the proposed cross-complaints, Transit Systems’
arguments are unpersuasive.
Transit Systems' argument based
upon the other action filed against their insurer and their insurance broker,
Carolina Casualty Insurance Company and TIB Transportation Insurance Brokers
respectively, is irrelevant to the motion because Transit Systems is not a
party to that action.    
Despite Transit Systems’ argument
otherwise, there is no reasonable diligence requirement under Section
428.50(c).  If the proposed
cross-complaint is permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interest
of justice at any time during the course of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 428.50(c).)
The motion for leave to file the
proposed cross-complaints is GRANTED and shall be filed within 15 days.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.