 Case Number:  23STCV23266    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 26, 2023, Plaintiff Erica Charles (“Charles”) filed this action
against Defendants Denny Gem-Chen Hsu (“Hsu”) and Does 1-26 for negligence. 
On
November 20, 2023, Hsu filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Charles and Roes 1-10 for negligence and motor vehicle tort. 
On
February 5, 2024, Charles amended the complaint to add Defendant CareCredit LLC
as Doe 1. 
On
April 2, 2024, Hsu filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, to be
heard on May 9, 2024. On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a “reply” stating
Plaintiff does not oppose Hsu's motion. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 25, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Hsu
asks for leave to file a cross-complaint against United Parcel Service Inc. and Roes
1-20 for indemnity and contribution, including express indemnity. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges that on or about October 6, 2021, at the intersection of Irolo St. and
Wilshire Blvd. in Los Angeles, Defendants
negligently entrusted, maintained, controlled, managed, drove, manufactured,
operated, repaired, distributed, inspected, and repaired their automobile,
causing it to collide and come into direct contact with Plaintiff’s vehicle, injuring
Plaintiff. 
B.    Hsu’s motion for leave to file
cross-complaint 
Hsu
requests leave to file a cross-complaint alleging that United Parcel Service Inc. caused
and/or contributed to the incident and to Plaintiff’s claimed personal
injuries. Hsu contends that United Parcel Service Inc. and/or its employees ignored
traffic laws and failed to exercise reasonable care in parking a large box
truck in an illegal parking zone, blocking the view of other drivers including
Plaintiff.  Hsu seeks indemnity
and contribution from United Parcel Service Inc. 
C.      Ruling 
On
November 20, 2023, Hsu filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Charles
and Roes 1-10 for negligence and motor vehicle tort.  Hsu does not explain why Hsu seeks to file a
second cross-complaint instead of moving to amend the cross-complaint that Hsu
previously filed. 
The
Court denies the motion without prejudice to a motion to amend the
cross-complaint filed on November 20, 2023. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Denny Gem-Chen Hsu’s
motion to file a cross-complaint without prejudice to filing a motion to amend
the cross-complaint filed on November 20, 2023. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.