 Case Number:  23STCP00305    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



FARNAZ KHAVARI, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
ASSET COMMERCIAL LENDING LLC, et al.,
 
                        Respondents.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP00305
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PETITION TO VACATE
  ARBITRATION AWARD; GRANTING PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 10, 2024



 
On February 3, 2023, Petitioner
Farnaz Khavari filed a petition to compel arbitration against Respondents Asset
Commercial Lending LLC (“ACL”) and Carol Baker Real Estate Inc. (“Baker”).
On
August 15, 2023, the Court granted the petition and ordered this matter to arbitration.
On
August 9, 2024, Petitioner filed a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award, which
Respondents opposed.
On
August 14, 2024, Respondents filed a Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award, which
Petitioner opposed.
LEGAL
STANDARD
A
party may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate an arbitration award,
and a response to a petition may request that the court dismiss the petition or
confirm, correct, or vacate the award.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 1285, 1285.2.)  The petition
or response must set forth (1) the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate, (2) the names of the arbitrators, and (3) the award and the written
opinion of the arbitrators, or attach a copy. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1285.4, 1285.6.) 
The court must either confirm the award as made, correct the award and confirm
it as corrected, vacate the award, or dismiss the proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
Under
the California Arbitration Act, the court must vacate the award if it determines
that (1) the award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means; (2)
there was corruption in any of the arbitrators; (3) the rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator; (4) the arbitrators
exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits
of the decision upon the controversy submitted; (5) the rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing
upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators
to hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators
contrary to the provisions of this title; or (6) an arbitrator making the award
failed to make required disclosures or failed to disqualify himself.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
The
Petition to Confirm complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 1285.4.  The Honorable Thomas L. Willhite, Jr. (Ret.) served
as the sole arbitrator.  A copy of the arbitration
award is attached.  (Petition to Confirm,  Ex. 8(c).)
The
award provides that ACL is solely liable for the breach of the Real Estate Purchase
Agreement (“RPA”), and Baker is not liable for the breach.  Respondents are not entitled to rescission of
the RPA.  Petitioner is entitled to the release
of the $150,000 deposit as liquidated damages, and ACL shall pay $50,000 as reasonable
attorney fees to Petitioner.
Respondents’
opposition to the Petition to Confirm and their own Petition to Vacate raise the
same argument: the arbitrator made an error of law when he found that Respondents
were not entitled to rescission of the RPA.
Respondents
cite Abbott v. California State Auto. Assn. (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 763 for
the proposition that a court may vacate an arbitrator’s decision when an error of
law appears on the face of the decision and the error causes substantial injustice.
The
California Supreme Court disapproved of Abbott in Moncharsh v. Heily &
Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1.  The court noted
that “it is the general rule that, with narrow exceptions, an arbitrator’s decision
cannot be reviewed for errors of fact or law.” 
(Id. at p. 11.)  The risk that
the arbitrator will make a mistake is acceptable because “by voluntarily submitting
to arbitration, the parties have agreed to bear that risk in return for a quick,
inexpensive, and conclusive resolution to their dispute.”  (Ibid.)  The “Legislature has set forth grounds for vacation
[citation] and correction [citation] of an arbitration award and ‘[a]n error of
law is not one of the grounds.’” (Id. at p. 14.)  The court therefore adhered to the “line of cases
that limit judicial review of private arbitration awards to those cases in which
there exists a statutory ground to vacate or correct the award.”  (Id. at p. 28.)
Because
Respondents have not identified any statutory grounds for vacating the arbitration
award, the Court will confirm the award.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to vacate the arbitration award is DENIED.  The petition to confirm the arbitration award
is GRANTED.
Petitioner
is ordered to submit a proposed judgment in conformity with the arbitration award
within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
September 17, 2024 at 9:00 AM.
Clerk
to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 10th day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 