 Case Number:  22STCV3488    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANIEL HUSBAND, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TARGET CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV34888
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 10, 2024



 
On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Husband filed this
action against Defendants Target Corporation and Daniel Abts, alleging (1) disability
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2)
failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to
engage in the interactive process in violation of FEHA; (4) defamation; and (5)
false light.  Plaintiff later dismissed Defendant
Daniel Abts, as well as the fourth and fifth causes of action against Defendant
Target Corporation.
On February 13, 2024, Defendant Target
Corporation filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication.
PROCEDURAL ISSUES
“Separate statements are required not
to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather to afford due process
to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously review complex motions
for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine quickly and efficiently
whether material facts are undisputed.”  ((United Community Church v. Garcin (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community
Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides
a convenient and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the
truly disputed facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)
The parties
should not “include in the separate statement every fact they intend to include
in their motion, regardless of its materiality.”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock
Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 875.)  “The paragraphs in a separate statement should
be limited to facts that address the elements of a cause of action or an affirmative
defense.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule 3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).)  The statute and Rules of Court do not preclude
litigants from including background, nonmaterial information in their papers as
long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial facts should not be
included in the separate statement.  The point
of the separate statement is not to craft a narrative, but to be a concise list
of the material facts and the evidence that supports them.”  (Ibid.)
Of the unique
facts in the parties’ separate statements, many are unnecessary and are not, in
fact, material to the claims or defenses. 
Additionally, what a party said or perceived is not a “material fact”; rather,
it is evidence of a fact.  (Reeves
v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 106 (Reeves).)  “The separate statement should include only material
facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)  “[T]rial
courts have the inherent power to strike proposed ‘undisputed facts’ that fail to
comply with the statutory requirements and that are formulated so as to impede rather
than aid an orderly determination whether the case presents triable material issues
of fact.  If such an order leaves the required
separate statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is justified in
denying the motion on that basis.”  (Reeves, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 106.)
Although the Court will not strike non-material
portions of the separate statements here, counsel is cautioned to include only facts
that are truly material to the motion.
Additionally, with its Reply, Defendant
filed a 50-page Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement.  “There is no provision in the statute for this.”  (Nazir, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at p. 252.)

EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
objections to the Declaration of Daniel J. Husband are overruled.
Defendant’s
objections to the Declaration of Ja’Mesha L. Morgan are overruled.
Defendant
also included evidentiary objections in response to Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Facts.  That is not the proper place for evidentiary
objections.  The response to a separate statement
is supposed to “unequivocally state whether the fact is ‘disputed’ or ‘undisputed.’  An opposing party who contends that a fact is
disputed must state, on the right side of the page directly opposite the fact in
dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe the evidence that supports the position
that the fact is controverted.  Citation to
the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must include
reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(2).)  
BACKGROUND
FACTS
On
October 13, 2020, Plaintiff submitted an electronic application for employment with
Defendant.  (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF”
1.)  One week later, Defendant hired Plaintiff,
and Plaintiff participated in Defendant’s New-Hire Orientation, where various policies
were provided.  (UMF 3, 9.)  Plaintiff signed an acknowledgement that identified
the policies provided to him and confirmed his understanding and agreement to follow
the policies.  (UMF 10.)  Plaintiff understood that he could be terminated
for violating any of Defendant’s policies. 
(UMF 14.)
Defendant’s
job description for the Plaintiff’s position identified the following required duties:
“creating a welcoming experience for guests, select items for order pickup, drive
up and online orders, properly prepare and package guest orders, meet guest order
promise times, meet productivity metrics, and demonstrate a culture of ethical conduct,
safety, and compliance.”  (UMF 6.)
Plaintiff
did not disclose any disability, medical condition, or need for accommodation on
his application or during his employment with Defendant.  (UMF 2, 5.) 
Plaintiff never told any member of Defendant’s management team or Human Resources
that he suffered from a disability, bipolar disorder, or any other mental health
condition.  (UMF 15-17.)  Plaintiff never requested an accommodation for
a disability.  (UMF 18.)  Without someone knowing Plaintiff very well, they
would not be able to perceive that he was undergoing a manic episode.  (UMF 19.)
On
June 9, 2022, Defendant received a complaint from one of its Team Leaders regarding
Plaintiff’s interactions with her, where he had been disrespectful and used profanity
in his conversation with her.  (UMF 21.)  In response to this incident, Plaintiff’s supervisor
met with Plaintiff and delivered coaching on “Unacceptable Conduct – Counseling”
for “Failure to Behave in a Respectful Manner.” 
(UMF 22.)
On
July 7, 2022, Plaintiff got into another altercation at work with a Team Leader,
when he got angry and started yelling at her. 
(UMF 23.)
On
July 8, 2022 at approximately 10:40 p.m., Plaintiff came into the store and asked
Daniel Abts if he “hurt or killed [his] step mom or anyone in the store.”  (UMF 24.) 
Abts asked Plaintiff to leave the store, and Plaintiff left.  (UMF 25.) 
On July 9, 2022 at 12:06 a.m., Plaintiff came back to the store with his
father and spoke to Target’s Inbound ETL, Raul Pereira.  (UMF 26.) 
During the conversation with Pereira, Plaintiff and his father told Pereira
that Plaintiff did not “need anything from Target” and he “was perfectly fine.”  (UMF 27-29.)
On
July 9, 2022 at approximately 9:00 a.m., Plaintiff and his father went back to the
store and met with the Store Director (Alfredo Cantu) and Target’s Human Resource
Team Leader.  (UMF 30.)  During this meeting, Cantu observed Plaintiff
using profanity and yelling, and he told Plaintiff and his father that some employees
were afraid of Plaintiff.  (UMF 31-32.)  Cantu told Plaintiff and his father to leave the
store and not come back until they heard from Human Resources.  (UMF 33.) 
Plaintiff and his father did not tell Cantu of any disability or need for
any accommodation, nor did they provide any medical documentation.  (UMF 34-35.)
On
July 9, 2022, following the meeting with Plaintiff and his father, Cantu called
Target’s Human Resources Business Partner, Emma Cade.  (UMF 36.) 
During this call, Cantu discussed the recent incidents involving Plaintiff
with Cade, including (1) Plaintiff’s June 9, 2022 and July 7, 2022 work behavior
with the Team Leads and use of profanity; (2) Plaintiff’s July 8, 2022 comments
to Abts regarding whether he had “hurt or kill[ed] his step mom or someone at the
store”; (3) the July 9, 2022 meeting between Plaintiff, his father, and Pereira
confirming Plaintiff was “fine”; (4) the second July 9, 2022 meeting with Plaintiff,
his father, and Cantu; and (5) Plaintiff’s aggressive conduct in that July 9, 2022
meeting observed by Cantu.  (UMF 38.)  During that call, Cade and Cantu made a decision
to terminate Plaintiff’s employment based on Plaintiff’s repeated violations of
Defendant’s policies, including its Violence-Free Workplace policy.  (UMF 39.)
After
the call, they informed the Store’s Executive Team Leader of Human Resources (Nadine
Wishart) of the termination decision.  (UMF
40.)  Wishart was asked to finalize the termination
paperwork and contact Plaintiff to come to the store the next business day, on July
11, 2020, to receive his termination paperwork. 
(UMF 40.)
On
July 10, 2022 at 4:47 a.m., Plaintiff came back to the store, knocked, and rang
on the doorbell of the Employee Entrance door until another coworker opened the
door.  (UMF 41.)  Plaintiff ran inside the store without permission
from management or Human Resources, walked to the back of the Team Member Service
area, grabbed Defendant’s GSTL 1 managerial keys, and left the store with the managerial
keys.  (UMF 41-42.)  Six minutes later, Plaintiff confronted a coworker
sitting in his car, used profanity in yelling at him, and then threw the managerial
keys into his car.  (UMF 43.)
The
coworker reported this incident to his manager, Pereira, who then confirmed the
details in an email to Wishart.  (UMF 44.)  Wishart updated Cade on this event and launched
an investigation, which included review of the store’s surveillance videos.  (UMF 45.) 
The surveillance video confirmed that Plaintiff had violated policies by
(1) entering the store without permission; (2) removing Defendant’s property (the
managerial keys) without permission; and (3) proceeding to leave the building with
Defendant’s property.  (UMF 46.)
On
July 18, 2022, Plaintiff returned to the store and met with Abts, providing a Work
Status Report from Kaiser Permanente, which stated that Plaintiff “is placed off
work from 7/10/2022 through 7/31/2022.”  (UMF
48.)  Plaintiff’s Work Status Report note
did not identify any disability, medical condition, or reason for the time off,
nor did it state any need for accommodation related to aggressive and profanity
laced communications, threat of violence, trespass, or theft.  (UMF 49.) 
Plaintiff did not disclose that he had a mental health disability.  (UMF 51.) 
During this meeting, Plaintiff was informed that that his employment had
been terminated as of July 11, 2022.  (UMF
50.)
Defendant
has no record of Plaintiff lodging a complaint, either through the Integrity Hotline
or Human Resources department, during his employment.  (UMF 52.) 
On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff called Defendant’s Integrity Hotline about his
termination and requested reinstatement. 
(UMF 54.)  Lead Investigator Hillary
Gonsior investigated Plaintiff’s Hotline Call and found that (1) Plaintiff was not
on a medical leave at the time of his termination, and (2) based on Plaintiff’s
actions between July 7, 2022 through July 9, 2022, his termination was warranted.  (UMF 55.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
Defendant
moves for adjudication of the remaining first, second, and third cause of action,
as well as Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
A.        Plaintiff Did Not Disclose His Disability
Or Request Any Accommodations (Second and Third Causes of Action).
“The
essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has
a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e.,
he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.  [Citation]” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766.)
“Two
principles underlie a cause of action for failure to provide a reasonable accommodation.  First, the employee must request an accommodation.  [Citation.] 
Second, the parties must engage in an interactive process regarding the requested
accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility for the failure rests with
the party who failed to participate in good faith.  [Citation.] 
While a claim of failure to accommodate is independent of a cause of action
for failure to engage in an interactive dialogue, each necessarily implicates the
other.  [Citation.]”  (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 242.)  An
employer is liable for failing to accommodate when it is the one responsible for
the breakdown in the interactive process; an employer may prevail where the employer
does everything in its power to engage but the employee does not engage in further
discussions in good faith.  (See Jensen
v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 263.)
“‘[T]he
interactive process of fashioning an appropriate accommodation lies primarily with
the employee.’  [Citation.]  An employee cannot demand clairvoyance of his
employer.  [Citation.] ‘ “ ‘[T]he employee
can't expect the employer to read his mind and know he secretly wanted a particular
accommodation and sue the employer for not providing it.  Nor is an employer ordinarily liable for failing
to accommodate a disability of which it had no knowledge.’ ” ’  [Citation.] 
‘It is an employee’s responsibility to understand his or her own physical
or mental condition well enough to present the employer at the earliest opportunity
with a concise list of restrictions which must be met to accommodate the employee.’  [Citation.] 
Plaintiff therefore was obliged ‘to tender a specific request for a necessary
accommodation.’  [Citation.]”  (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 426, 443 (King).)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff never provided notice that he had any disability or need for
accommodation.  (Motion at pp. 17-18.)  Plaintiff never disclosed a disability, medical
or mental health condition, or need for accommodation in his application, during
his employment, or during the July 9 and 18, 2022 meetings.  (UMF 2, 5, 15-18, 29, 34-35, 51; see UMF 27-28.)  Plaintiff’s Work Status Report, provided to Defendant
after his termination, only noted, “This patient is placed off work from 7/10/2022
through 7/31/2022,” without identifying any disability, condition, or need for accommodation.  (UMF 48-49.) 
Defendant has met its initial burden of showing that it did not know about
Plaintiff’s disability or need for accommodations.
Plaintiff
argues that he had been diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder I but never need accommodations
until his July 2022 manic episode.  (Opposition
at p. 9; Husband Decl. ¶¶ 2, 5, 14.)  According
to Plaintiff, Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s medical condition, both actual
and perceived, due to his “abnormal, neurotic behavior” that Abt reported to management.  (Opposition at pp. 9-11.)  Abt testified that on July 8, 2022, he believed
Plaintiff had a mental breakdown.  (Morgan
Decl., Ex. I at p. 80 [“Abt Depo.”].)  Abt
testified, “My personal opinion is that he needed help.  I didn’t know what kind of help and I thought
he would be better going to a hospital versus going to the police.”  (Id. at p. 81.)  However, Plaintiff never “communicated his distress
to his supervisors or made the kind of specific request for a modified work schedule
required to trigger an employer’s duty to provide accommodation.”  (King, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p. 444.)
Plaintiff
also argues that if Defendant had provided Plaintiff’s “reasonable accommodation
of time off to adjust to his new medication, rather than terminating the Plaintiff
and refusing to reconsider, Plaintiff would have been capable of returning to his
role as Fulfillment Expert without restrictions or need for further accommodations.”  (Opposition at pp. 10-11.)  This is not the express accommodation requested
by Plaintiff after his termination.  The Work
Status Report stated, “Off Work: This patient is placed off work from 7/10/2022
through 7/31/2022.  Full Duty: The patient
was evaluated and deemed able to return to work at full capacity on 8/1/2022.”  (UMF 48.) 
There is no indication why Plaintiff was placed off work, nor any indication
that Plaintiff needed time off to adjust to medication.  It did not identify any disability, condition,
or need for accommodation.  (UMF 49.)
Plaintiff
has failed to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding Defendant’s
lack of knowledge of any disability or need for accommodation.
Summary
adjudication of the second and third causes of action is granted.
B.        Defendant Has Proven a Legitimate and
Non-Discriminatory Reason for the Alleged Discrimination (First Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant discriminated against him by failing to accommodate his disability
and terminating him without providing an accommodation or engaging in the interactive
process.  (Complaint ¶ 28.)
An
employee’s prima facie claim of discrimination requires “(1) the employee’s membership
in a classification protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory animus on the part
of the employer toward members of that classification; (3) an action by the employer
adverse to the employee’s interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory
animus and the adverse action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link
between the adverse action and the damage.” 
(Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  If an employee makes a prima facie showing, the
burden shifts to the employer to articulate a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for the adverse action.  (Id. at p.
714.)  “To establish that an employer has
discriminated on the basis of a disability in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff employee
has the burden of proving he or she could perform ‘the essential functions of the
job with or without reasonable accommodation.’” 
(Atkins, supra, 8 Cal.App.5th at p. 716.)
“In
an employment discrimination case, an employer may move for summary judgment against
a discrimination cause of action with evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason for the adverse employment action. 
[Citation.]  A legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason is one that is unrelated to prohibited bias and that, if true, would preclude
a finding of discrimination.  [Citation.]  The employer’s evidence must be sufficient to
allow the trier of fact to conclude that it is more likely than not that on or more
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons were the sole basis for the adverse employment
action.”  (Featherstone v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158 (Featherstone).)  Then the burden shifts to the employee “to present
evidence that the employer’s decision was motivated at least in part by prohibited
discrimination.”  (Id. at pp. 1158-1159.)  “The plaintiff’s evidence must be sufficient to
support a reasonable inference that discrimination was a substantial motivating
factor in the decision.  [Citation.]  The stronger the employer’s showing of a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason, the stronger the plaintiff’s evidence must be in order
to create a reasonable inference of a discriminatory motive.”  (Id. at p. 1159.)
“The
employee’s ‘subjective beliefs in an employment discrimination case do not create
a genuine issue of fact; nor do uncorroborated and self-serving declarations.’  [Citation.]” 
(Featherstone, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1159.)  “To show that an employer’s reason for termination
is pretextual, an employee ‘ “cannot simply show that the employer’s decision was
wrong or mistaken, since the factual dispute at issue is whether discriminatory
animus motivated the employer, not whether the employer is wise, shrewd, prudent
or competent.” ’  [Citation.]  To meet his or her burden, the employee ‘ “must
demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or
contradictions in the employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that
a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ ” ’ and
hence infer ‘ “the employer did not act for [the asserted] nondiscriminatory reasons.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)
As
discussed above, Defendant has shown that it had no knowledge of his disability
when it decided to terminate him.  (See Motion
at pp. 12-13.)
Defendant
further argues that Plaintiff’s violation of company policies and misconduct involving
threats or violence against coworkers provided a legitimate and non-discriminatory
reason for terminating Plaintiff’s employment. 
(Motion at pp. 13-14.)  “[M]isconduct
involving threats or violence against coworkers is properly considered a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for terminating the employee.”  (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
143, 168.)
Plaintiff
had agreed to follow Defendant’s policies, which include a Violence-Free Policy.  (UMF 10.) 
The decision to terminate Plaintiff’s employment was made on July 9, 2022,
based on Plaintiff’s June 9, 2022 and July 7, 2022 work behavior with the Team Leads
and use of profanity; Plaintiff’s July 8, 2022 comments to Abts regarding whether
he had “hurt or kill[ed] his step mom or someone at the store”; and Plaintiff’s
aggressive conduct in the July 9, 2022 meeting. 
(UMF 38-39; see UMF 21-24, 31-32.) 
The next day, Plaintiff further violated Defendant’s policies by (1) entering
the store without permission; (2) removing Defendant’s property (the managerial
keys) without permission; and (3) proceeding to leave the building with Defendant’s
property.  (UMF 46.)
Defendant
has met is burden of showing a legitimate and non-discriminatory reason for the
termination—namely, Plaintiff’s violation of company policies and misconduct involving
threats or violence against coworkers.
Plaintiff
argues that there was no reasonable or good faith belief that Plaintiff was a threat
to anyone, and Abts stated that he was not afraid and was only concerned for Plaintiff’s
own personal safety and mental state.  (Opposition
at pp. 11-12.)  Plaintiff also argues that
the evidence “further supports that Plaintiff was perceived as needing assistance,
not a threat,” during the July 10 incident. 
(Id. at p. 14.)  According to
Plaintiff, “[e]veryone who saw Plaintiff perceived that he was in need of medical
intervention.  Defendant’s attempts to paint
Plaintiff as a threat to society is not supported by the facts in this case.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff contends that “Defendant knows that
Plaintiff was suffering a manic episode due to a disability, yet still characterized
it as theft and trespassing.”  (Id.
at p. 17.)  Plaintiff also argues that he
did not actually violate the “Zero Tolerance Violence-Free Workplace Policy” by
its own terms because Plaintiff did not threaten or harm anyone.  (Id. at p. 16.)
“While
knowledge of the disability can be inferred from the circumstances, knowledge will
only be imputed to the employer when the fact of disability is the only reasonable
interpretation of the known facts.”  (Brundage
v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228, 237 (Brundage).)  Plaintiff’s manic episode and mental health disorder
is not the only reasonable interpretation of his conduct.  As previously discussed, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff never directly informed Defendant about any disability.  Because Defendant did not know about Plaintiff’s
mental health disorder, it could not have terminated him because of that disorder.  (Ibid.)
Additionally,
“the question is not whether [Plaintiff’s] comments and conduct reasonably could
be construed as threatening.  Rather, the
question is whether the [employer] honestly believed [Plaintiff] violated its written
policy against verbal threats, threatening conduct, and violence.”  (Wills, supra, 195 Cal.App.4th at pp. 171-172.)  Plaintiff failed to cite any evidence that Defendant
did not honestly believe that Plaintiff violated its policies.  (See id. at p. 172.)
To
the extent that Plaintiff argues that Defendant should have retroactively accommodated
him through reinstatement after time off for recovery (Opposition at pp. 18-19),
Defendant’s later-acquired knowledge of any disability or need for accommodation
does not change the fact that the original termination was for a proper reason.  (Brundage, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p.
238.)
Plaintiff
has failed to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding whether
Defendant’s asserted legitimate and nondiscriminatory reason was pretextual.
Summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is granted.
C.        Defendant Has Shown That Plaintiff Cannot
Establish a Basis for Punitive Damages.
For
the reasons set forth above, Plaintiff cannot establish an underlying claim upon
which punitive damages may be awarded.
Summary
adjudication of punitive damages is granted.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant
is ordered to file a proposed judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
September 17, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 10th day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 