 Case Number:  24VECV01022    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  W JOHN S BIRKE v. MICHELE MARTIN
BIRKE, et al.
 
MOTION BY
DEFENDANT MICHELE MARTIN birke FOR AN ORDER THAT THE COURT EXERCISE THE
DISCRETION AFFORDED IT BY GOV’T. CODE § 68636(b) AND ORDER A HEARING BE HELD TO
DETERMINE WHETHER PLAINTIFF JOHN S. BIRKE WAS ENTITLED TO HIS FEE WAIVER IN
THIS ACTION
 
Date of Hearing:        April
23, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01022
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Michele Martin Birke 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
John S. Birke   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff John S.
Birke filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants Michele Martin Birke,
Susan Goldstein, and Lewitt, Hackman, Shapiro, Marshall & Harlan for 1. Intentional
Interference with Expected Inheritance; and 2. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. 
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed
their first cause of action.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Michele Martin Birke’s Motion for an Order that the Court Exercise the
Discretion Afforded it by Gov’t. Code § 68636(B) and Order a Hearing be Held to
Determine Whether Plaintiff John S. Birke was Entitled to His Fee Waiver in this
Action is granted. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Michele Martin Birke requests this court take judicial
notice of the complaint filed in this action on March 4, 2024 and the Order on
Court Fee Waiver entered in this action on March 8, 2024. The court GRANTS
Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
analysis
 
Defendant Michele Martin Birke move for
an order that the court exercise the discretion afforded it by Government Code
section 68636(b) and order a hearing be held to determine whether Plaintiff
John S. Birke was entitled to his fee waiver in this action. 
 
Government Code sections 68631 and
68636 allows a Court to reconsider the issuance of a fee waiver.¿ “Under
circumstances set forth in Section 68636, the court may reconsider the initial
fee waiver and order the fee waiver withdrawn for future fees and costs or deny
the fee waiver retroactively.” (Gov. Code, § 68631.)  
 
Government Code section 68636,
subdivision (b) provides, “If, before or at the time of final disposition of
the case, the court obtains information, including information derived from the
court file, suggesting that a person whose fees and costs were initially waived
is not entitled to a fee waiver . . .¿ the court may require the person to
appear at a court hearing by giving the applicant [1] no less than 10 days’
written notice of the hearing and [2] the specific reasons why the initial fee
waiver might be reconsidered.” (Gov. Code, § 68636(b).)¿  
 
Subdivision (b) further provides “[t]he
court may require the person to provide reasonably available evidence,
including financial information, to support his or her eligibility for the fee
waiver, but shall not require submission of information that is not related to
the criteria for eligibility and application requirements set forth in Sections
68632 and 68633.” (Gov. Code, § 68636(b).)¿  
 
“If the court obtains information
suggesting that a litigant whose fees and costs were initially waived is
obtaining court services in bad faith, or for an improper purpose such as to
harass or cause unnecessary delay, or to needlessly increase the costs of
litigation, the court may give notice that the litigant is required to appear
at a court hearing to consider whether limitations should be placed on court
services for which fees were initially waived.” (Gov. Code, § 68636(f).)¿ 
 
“In conducting a hearing under
subdivision (b) . . .¿ if the court determines that the person was not entitled
to the initial fee waiver at the time it was granted, the court may order the
waiver withdrawn retroactively. The court may order the person to pay to the
court immediately, or over a period of time, all or part of the fees that were
initially waived. The court shall give the person a minimum of 10 court days to
begin paying the full or partial fees.” (Gov. Code, § 68636(d).)¿ 
 
Plaintiff’s Fee Waiver Request is
confidential. Defendant makes the motion on the grounds if the court determines
Plaintiff sought fee waiver under box (c) of paragraph 5 and did not make
appropriate disclosure of the $204,500.00 distributed to him by The Charles L.
Birke Inter Vivos Trust in paragraph 10 of the FW-001 form, Defendant submits
the information provided to the court by this motion suggests that Plaintiff is
not entitled to his fee waiver. 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues
Defendant made the motion (1) to cause unnecessary delay in the proceedings;
(2) to divert Plaintiff John Birke’s resources; (3) to waste the Court’s
resources; (4) to subject Plaintiff to vex, harass, and annoy Plaintiff; and
(6), to abrogate the confidentiality of the fee waiver process by compelling
Plaintiff to reveal to Michele Birke his private, confidential financial
information. Plaintiff further contends Defendant does not have authority to
make such a motion. Regardless, Plaintiff states he completed the fee waiver
application truthfully and accurately but if the court chooses, he is willing to
appear confidentially before the court to answer the court’s questions about
the fee waiver, but asks the court not to allow Defendant, her attorney, and
third parties not to be privy to the hearing if the court determines one is necessary.
 
The court will set the matter for
hearing no less than 10 days from the date of this order.  Plaintiff is ordered to present records
sufficient to establish the basis for his eligibility under Government Code
Section 68631 and 68636.  The hearing
shall be confidential, as required by Section 68633(f).     