  Case Number:  17STPB03682    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTION IN LIMINE OF PETITIONERS TO EXCLUDE ORAL TESTIMONY 
RE: EFFECT OF
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT   
 
In re: Ruth
Williamson 2011 Trust dated August 11, 2011, Case No. 17STPB03682 (related to
Case Nos. 17STPB02381, YC071970 and YC071983)
Anne Farrell, et al.,
Petitioners, v. Thomas D. Williamson, et al., Respondents 
Hearing Date: October
26, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION AND RELEVANT HISTORY
 
          In 2004, George B. Williamson (“George
B.”) and Ruth Williamson (“Ruth”) formed six trusts, one for each of their six
children, petitioners Anne Farrell (“Anne”) and Laura Black (“Laura”), respondents
Thomas Williamson (“Thomas”) and Sue Shreve (“Sue”), as well as non-parties Patricia
Brunner (“Patricia”) and George Williamson III (“George III”) (“the 101
Trusts”).[1]
The 101 Trusts own four limited liability companies and a Chapter S corporation
(“the Entities”). Those Entities in turn own income producing real property in
California and Utah. Thomas was the original trustee of the 101 Trusts and
manager of the Entities.[2] 
          On April 18, 2005, George B. and Ruth
placed their “separate” assets into their own Trust (“the 2005 Trust”). 
          In 2009, George B. died. Ruth became
the remaining sole trustee of the 2005 Trust.
          On March 23, 2010, after issues arose
concerning Thomas’ management of the Entities. Thomas resigned as trustee of
the 101 Trusts and Manager. Ruth amended the 2005 Trust and designated Anne and
her husband David Farrell (“David”) as successor co-trustees. 
          On August 11, 2011, Ruth executed the
2011 Trust that replaced the 2005 Trust and provided for Patricia, Sue, Laura
and Thomas as beneficiaries, but not Anne or George III. Each of the
beneficiaries was also to be co-successor trustee. 
          In September 2011, Thomas again took
over as trustee of the 101 Trusts and manager of the Entities. 
          On September 11, 2011, Ruth executed
a Last Will and Testament. 
          On October 12, 2011, among other
parties, Ruth, Anne, Laura, Thomas, Sue, all individually and in all capacities,
executed the Settlement Agreement (“the Agreement”).[3] Their
respective counsel also signed the Agreement as to form and content. 
           Recitals in the Agreement include
the following: “various disputes have arisen between the beneficiaries of the
various Trusts…the parties desire to resolve their disputes among themselves
and the entities…the parties have come to an understanding that in order to
resolve the conflicts and disputes between the parties, The Ane Farrell 101 Trust
needs to [be] managed by an independent trustee…it is the intent of this
Settlement Agreement to effectuate the transfer of all rights, title and
interests in and to the identified real properties to entities and or The Anne
Farrell 101 Trust as design[at]ed by Anne Farrell….notwithstanding this Settlement
Agreement, it is the intention of the parties…that each and every party retain
their respective rights and remedies against each other for any perceived or
contended wrongdoing by any party, entity or trust…for alleged wrongdoing by
parties…or anyone else associated with the Trusts or entities.”
          The Agreement provides in relevant
part:   
5. “…the parties shall be granted a
window period to and including February 29, 2012, in which to file their
respective claims…against each other for any wrongdoing that they claim to have
been perpetuated or done by any other parties, whether in their individual
capacities or in [other] capacities…On or after March 1, 2012, the provisions
of the mutual and general releases set forth in paragraph 14 shall become
effective and shall govern the parties thereafter.” 
10. “Upon the full execution of
this Agreement…FARRELL shall withdraw any conflicting escrow instruction
relating to the sale of Casa Granada…” 
14.  “On and after February 29, 2012, the following
mutual and general release shall become effective….Except as provided in this
AGREEMENT, each of the parties does hereby release…any and all claims…arising
out of the above-referenced dispute and…from any and all claims…arising out
of any events which have occurred at any time, in any manner or matter between
the parties, in any capacity whatsoever, directly or indirectly, from the
beginning of time…to and through the execution of this Agreement.”  (Emphasis in italics added)
15. “…the parties herein waive and
relinquish the rights and benefits afforded by Section 1542 of the Civil Code…’A
general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or
suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release,
which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her
settlement with the debtor.’” 
16. “…each party understands that
the facts upon which the foregoing release is given may hereafter turn out to
be other than or different from the facts now known or believed to be true, and
hereby accepts and assumes the risk of the facts turning out to be different
and agrees that the foregoing release shall be in all respects effective and
not subject to termination or rescission by virtue of any such difference in
fact.”  
18. “Except as provided above, the
parties…shall forever refrain and forbear from commencing…any lawsuit, action
or other proceedings against any of the parties hereto, or any of them…and such
forbearance shall apply to any cause relating to, based upon or arising out of
any and all clams…released and discharged hereunder.” 
          On December 15, 2014, Ruth executed a
First Amendment to the 2011 Trust that made Thomas the sole beneficiary, as
well as for him to be the sole successor trustee.
          On November 12, 2015, the Utah State
District Court, Third District, Salt Lake County, by Judge James D. Gardner, issued
a one hundred thirteen-page Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Order in
an action brought by Thomas against Anne and David related to the disputes
between them concerning the 101 Trusts and in particular the effect of the
Agreement on those disputes, Williamson v. Farrell, Case No. 120401734 (“the
Utah action”).  
          On April 8, 2016, Ruth executed a
Second Amendment to the 2011 Trust whereby Ruth could not amend the Trust
without the written consent of Thomas and Lee McCullough. 
          On May 2, 2016, Ruth executed a Third
Amendment to the 2011 Trust which clarified that McCullough was to be a
co-trustee with Ruth and Thomas.  
          On November 23, 2016, Ruth died. 
          On April 27, 2017, Petitioners filed
a petition in this Court concerning the validity of the 2011 Trust and the
Amendments. 
          On August 17, 2017, Petitioners filed
an amended petition to void the 2011 Trust and Amendments. 
          On September 20, 2017, Thomas filed
an objection to the amended petition and asserted as an affirmative defense that
Petitioners had waived their claims by virtue of the Agreement. 
          On July 18, 2023, this Court
bifurcated trial of the amended petition – Phase 1 to concern what claims, if
any, the Agreement may bar. 
          On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a motion as to the issues to be tried in the Phase 1 trial. They make the
following different arguments why the terms of the Settlement Agreement do not bar
their claims. Each of these arguments is premised upon the Court being able to
draw these conclusions based on reading the unambiguous term of the Agreement as
a matter of law without need to hear extrinsic evidence to aid in its
interpretation.   
1.      
The Agreement pertained solely to
separating Anne Farrell’s interests in the 101 Trusts from those of other
persons – which is a different issue than who would be a beneficiary of the
“residual” estate of Ruth - under either the 2004 or 2011 Trust (as amended) –
depending on which Trust is controlling - that is distinct from the 101 Trusts.

2.      
The waiver of Civil Code sec 1542 does not
extend the scope of the release beyond claims “arising out of the above-referenced
dispute,” pursuant to sec. 14 of the Agreement, citing Folsom v. Butte Co.
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 668, 677.[4] 
3.      
On its face, the Agreement does not bar the
claims asserted in the petition, i.e., to void the 2011 Trust Agreement. 
4.      
The 2005 Trust and 2011 Trust did not sign the
Agreement, citing Roth v. Jelley (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 655,
670-71 and Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
542. 
5.      
The claims at issue had not accrued as of when
the Agreement was executed. 
6.      
The way Defendants interpret the Agreement would
be unconscionable if to do so would release Thomas from fraud and breach of
fiduciary duty, contrary to Civil Code sec. 1668, citing Baltazar v. Forever
21 (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 and Neubauer v. Goldfarb
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 47, 55. 
7.      
There was no “meeting of the minds” as to which
claims were released, citing Lindsay v. Lewandowski (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th
1618, 1622. 
8.      
A contractual provision does not displace a
decedent’s testamentary intent, citing Roth, supra, and Estate of
Muhammad (1971) 16 Cal.App.3d 726, 737.  
9.      
The Utah Court did not rule on whether the
Agreement barred the claims at issue here, instead rejecting Thomas’ claim that
the Agreement should be rescinded. 
 
          On October 13, 2023, Defendants filed
Opposition to the motion, together with a Declaration of Vernon Jolley. The
Opposition asserts: 
1.      
The amended petition concerns the “residue” of
Ruth’s estate, Ruth already having provided the balance of her estate to each
of the six children, including Anne. The effect of the 2011 Trust is only as to
Anne and George III – who were expressly disinherited thereunder. 
2.      
Anne was a party to the Agreement and is bound
by it individually and in all capacities. 
3.      
Petitioners had an opportunity to bring other
claims against Respondents in the ‘due diligence’ time-period provided for in
sec. 5 of the Agreement but did not do so. 
4.      
Judge Gardner made the following rulings
relevant here: 
 
“As conceded by
the Defendants [including Anne], because the Court is enforcing the Settlement
Agreement, the following claims asserted by the Defendants have been released: (i)
Defendants’ conversion claim against Thomas; (ii) Defendants’ slander claim
against Ruth, Patricia, Sue and Laura; and (iii) Defendants’ claim of
intentional infliction of emotional distress as to Ruth.” (See para. 51,
p. 89)
 
        Anne
wanted to “simply ‘end this’ and reach a final and complete resolution.” (See
para. 185, p. 50)
 
5.      
There was no procedural unconscionability in the
Agreement or unequal bargaining power where both sides were represented by
counsel. Substantively, there would be no unconscionability  where even after applying by the Agreement to
Anne’s claims, she still received millions of dollars through her 101 Trust. 
6.      
The Court should hold to the literal language
providing for a general release as ironclad as to both known and unknown claims,
citing to Winet v. Price (1972) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1172-73. Where
the parties were in an adversarial relationship, Petitioners should have
specified claims of which they were suspicious if they intended for those to be
excluded, citing Edwards v. Comstock Ins. Co. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d
1164, 1168-69. Inclusion of a waiver of Civil Code sec. 1542 establishes
unambiguously that intent to cover all possible claims, citing to Jefferson
v. Dept. of Youth Authority (2002) 28 Cal.4th 299, 307. 
7.      
Collateral estoppel applies here to preclude
Petitioners from asserting that the Agreement does not bar the claims here,
citing Coscia v. McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194,
n.1. This Court should give full faith and credit to the Utah Court ruling. 
8.      
Petitioners cannot assert the Agreement does not
govern the claims unrelated to the 101 Trusts that are at issue here where
Judge Gardner ruled that claims unrelated to the 101 Trusts were governed by
the Agreement. An evidentiary hearing is required as to Petitioners’ claim that
the Agreement governs only the disputed claims concerning the 101 Trusts. The
recitals to the Agreement are merely prefatory and its provisions are what is
key. 
9.      
The Agreement unambiguously provides a waiver of
all possible claims (unless brought within the due diligence period) and should
not be contradicted by contrary parol evidence, citing to CCP sec. 1856(a).[5]  
          On October 19, 2023, Petitioners
filed a Reply Brief. They continue to argue the effect of the Agreement on the
amended petition is purely a legal issue, notwithstanding that Petitioners and
Respondents read the Agreement differently. Specifically, they contend that the
scope of the Agreement pertained solely to resolution of the disputes emanating
from the 101 Trusts as opposed to the parties generally. In addition, they
address why for the reasons stated above the Agreement could not bar their claims.
They also respond to the collateral estoppel argument asserted for the first
time in the Opposition. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          The Court will treat this motion
regarding the issues to be tried as a motion in limine in the absence of any
other stated legal basis for the motion. 
          The Court did not consider the
Declaration of Vernon Jolley for two reasons: First, the issue on this motion
is whether the Agreement itself bars the claims as a matter of law independent
of extrinsic evidence.[6] Jolley’s
Declaration is extrinsic evidence. Second, on January 8, 2019, Judge Juarez
disqualified Jolley from representing any interest adverse to Laura. Though
Jolley may testify as a witness at trial, he is prohibited from making
contentions as a lawyer. Parts of his declaration go beyond merely providing
his recollection of events and impermissibly opine on the legal effect of the
Agreement and the Utah Court’s final ruling.[7] 
          On the other hand, the Court takes
judicial notice, on its own motion, of the Utah Court’s Findings of Fact,
Conclusions of Law and Order. In particular, the Court notes Judge Gardner’s legal
conclusion that “[t]he Settlement Agreement resolved all claims other than those
arising from review of the financial records or from breach of the Settlement
Agreement. See heading on p. 85. More specifically, the Utah court
concluded: “In furtherance of this goal [“a binding resolution of the parties’
disputes among themselves and the entities”], the Settlement Agreement provided
for, among other things, the transfer of certain real properties to the Anne
Farrell 101 Trust and a broad mutual general release for all parties with a
limited carve out designed ‘to allow [the parties] to do their respective
due diligence in reviewing records and documents of the various business
entities and proceed with litigation and enforcement of their respective
rights and remedies should their investigation reveal wrongdoing by any of
the parties to the Settlement Agreement.’ See…para. 20” (Emphasis in
original.) (Final Ruling, para. 46, p. 86) 
          In addition, the Utah Court concluded
(in ruling that certain of Thomas’ claims were released under the Agreement): “Despite
the acknowledged limited scope of the general release’s carve-out…[Thomas]…brought
numerous claims well outside the carve-out’s scope and squarely within the
parameters of the general release.” (See para. 47, p. 86) Further, as
noted above, the Court also ruled that certain of Anne’s claims were likewise released
by the Agreement. (See para. 51, p. 89) 
          While this Court takes that ruling
into consideration here, this Court is not bound by that sister state court’s
reading of the Agreement, nor is it “law of the case” where the ruling was made
in another case. On the other hand, the Court is inclined to give weight to what
another court has done – in the interests of consistency - to the extent this
Court itself concurs therein. The Court will discuss below whether Petitioners
are precluded by collateral estoppel from contending that the Agreement does
not apply here. 
         The Court now
discusses each of the various arguments raised in the context of determining
whether the terms of the Agreement are themselves reasonably susceptible
to different meanings. If not, the Court may be able to dispense with
consideration of extrinsic evidence. If so, the Court will consider extrinsic
evidence, including Jolley’s testimony.[8] 
 
Petitioners’ Arguments  
1.      
The Agreement is susceptible to an
interpretation that it pertains not just solely to the disputes related to the
101 Trusts, as Petitioners contend, but also to all other disputes generally: The
release in Sec. 14 of the Agreement has two parts: those claims “arising out of
the above-referenced dispute” “and” those claims “arising out of
any events which have occurred at any time, in any manner or matter between the
parties, in any capacity whatsoever, directly or indirectly, from the beginning
of time…to and through the execution of this Agreement.”[9]

          Respondents read the Agreement broadly
to include all claims. As indicated above, the Utah Court also reached the same
conclusion that the Agreement applied to all claims, not just those arising out
of the above-referenced dispute – finding that all claims not governed by the
claw-back were released. In turn, the Utah Court buttressed this conclusion in
noting: “To adopt [Thomas’] overly broad interpretation of the carve-out would
effectively render the Settlement Agreement meaningless until the expiration of
the carveout window. (Final Ruling, para. 50, p. 88) 
          Given these conflicting views, that
the Agreement does not completely address, the Court will need to hear
extrinsic evidence to assist the Court in its interpretation.       
2.      
The argument that the waiver of Civil Code sec
1542 does not extend the scope of the release beyond claims “arising out of the
above-referenced dispute” may assume erroneously that the release applies only
to ones “arising out of the above-referenced dispute.” Respondents contend,
consistent with Judge Gardner’s finding, that Anne wanted to “simply ‘end this’
and reach a final and complete resolution.” (Emphasis added) This
suggests more than the limited scope Petitioners contend was intended. 
          Folsom, supra, cited by
Petitioners, also does not help them here: In Folsom, the Court allowed
a motion for fees after the conclusion of a case pursuant to a settlement
agreement that did not address fees. The Folsom court held that
therefore the agreement did not dispose of the fee issue as it did not address
it. Here, however, as just stated, the Agreement appears to address more than
just the claims resolved. Hence, the Court is not applying the waiver of sec.
1452 beyond the scope of the Agreement or what the parties intended to settle. 
3.      
Though the Agreement does not on its face reference
the claims in the amended petition, Petitioners point to no requirement it do
so. The release is of all known and unknown claims. Indeed, even
according to Petitioners, it could not mention the claims here where the claims
had not accrued. 
4.      
The argument that the 2005 Trust and 2011 Trust
did not sign the Agreement and hence that the Agreement cannot bar claims
concerning those trusts fails: A trust is not a person who or which would sign
an agreement. Trusts are managed by trustees. However, the Agreement was signed
by Anne and David (as well as Laura, Ruth and Thomas) individually and in all
capacities. On the other hand, the Agreement does not state definitively that Anne
and David are signing as co-trustees of the 2005 Trust or as co-executors of
Ruth’s estate – in which capacities they are bringing this petition. Where neither
the 2005 Trust nor the 2011 Will and Trust are mentioned in the Agreement, the
Court finds that the Agreement is at least susceptible to an interpretation
that Anne and David were not necessarily signing in those capacities – even if
the Agreement says they are signing in all capacities.[10]

          In turn, Petitioners
Katherine Black Garcia (“Katherine”) and Christopher Black (“Christopher”),
also co-trustees of the 2005 Trust, did not sign the Agreement at all. Therefore,
the Court will allow Petitioners to put on their case at trial that the
Agreement should not bind their claims herein.[11]

          Roth and Ferraro, supra, are
in accord – holding in each case that the plaintiff beneficiary was not bound
by a settlement agreement to which he or she was not a party.  
5.      
A claim under Ruth’s will would not have
accrued as of the Agreement date since Ruth was alive then and a will is not
effective until the death of the testator. The Court acknowledges Heyer v.
Flaig (1969) 70 Cal.2d 223, 230-31 Petitioners cited on his point. Though
the Agreement would not bar the claim concerning the will, it is not clear from
the motion what relevance the will itself has independent of the Trust. 
          By contrast, a trust is typically
effective as of the date the agreement is executed and hence any claim would likely
have already accrued. The amended petition also concerns the 2011 Trust. Ruth
had executed the 2011 Trust before the Agreement was executed. Hence, assuming
the scope of the Agreement did go beyond the disputes over the 101 Trusts, for
the reasons already stated, Petitioners’ argument that claims concerning the
2011 Trust had not accrued likely fails. 
          Whether the claims concerning the
amendments to the 2011 Trust survive the Agreement is more complicated: Where
Anne did not have any rights under the 2011 Trust, she would have no reason to
make any claim concerning the subsequent Amendments. By contrast, Laura would
have standing to assert a claim concerning the Amendments – which would not be
covered by the Agreement (given they were made after the Agreement) - because
she thereby lost rights she did have under the 2011 Trust. 
          Petitioners also contend in their
Reply that their claims concerning the amendments (that thy contend Respondents
agree would not be barred by the Agreement) cannot be severed from their claims
concerning the original 2011 Trust (which claims may have been barred by the
Agreement.) They point out that by the amendments all the siblings other than
Thomas were disinherited whereas under the original 2011 Trust only Anne and
George III were disinherited. However, they do not explain why these claims cannot
be severed and it is not clear that Petitioners have standing to assert claims
on behalf of anyone other than themselves. 
          Therefore, at least at this stage,
the Court will need to hear further from the parties as to what effect the
Agreement may have on the amended petition.[12]
All that can be held now is that the Court cannot find the Agreement wholly
bars the amended petition of both Laura and Anne – at least on this basis. 
6.      
The Court does not find the Agreement to be unconscionable
- as Petitioners assert it would be if it were to allow Thomas avoiding their
claims of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty.
          Initially, Baltazar, supra,
cited by Petitioners, does not support that broad proposition; Instead, the California
Supreme Court merely held that an employment agreement was not substantively
unconscionable – to bar arbitration - in having a term that allowed the
employer to seek provisional relief to protect confidential information. Moreover,
generally, there must be both procedural and substantive unconscionability for
a court to deny enforceability. “Essentially, a sliding scale is invoked…the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice-versa.” (Baltazar, 62 Cal.4th
at 1243-1244)
          Here, where both sides were
represented by counsel, the Court does not find an unequal balance of power
whereby Anne is disadvantaged as against Thomas to constitute procedural unconscionability.
In addition, it is undisputed the Agreement resulted from a mediation exceeding
ten hours in length – demonstrating it was the product of negotiation. 
          Further, the Agreement was not
substantively unconscionable where it allowed Anne to separate her and David’s
interests from other family members and receive a very significant bargained
for amount representing close to her proportionate share of the Entities less a
discount for a buy-out of a minority ownership interest, as well as disputed
management fees. Moreover, the complained of term in the Agreement that would
release Thomas from her claims is what she bargained for in securing a mutual
release and to put an end to the disputes. For these reasons, the Utah Court
rejected Thomas’ converse argument that the Agreement should be rescinded in
likewise precluding him from asserting released claims of fraud and breach of
fiduciary duty against Anne and David. See Final Ruling, paras 48 and 49.
pp. 87-88 
          Finally, the release did not indicate
David did not have fiduciary duties to beneficiaries (or as manager to the
owners) but merely that the parties wished to resolve those disputes that
resulted from such duties.[13]
Relatedly, it is significant that the Utah Court found David did have fiduciary
duties in concluding that those had been extinguished when prior to execution
of the Agreement he was notified that he had been removed as trustee. See
Final Ruling, paras. 67 and 68, pp. 95-96
7.      
The Court rejects – at least at this motion stage
- Petitioners’ argument that the Agreement does not reflect a meeting of the
minds, as required of any agreement. Petitioners have not shown how one party
believed the Agreement meant something different than what the other party
believed. While the parties may differ about whether the Agreement does or does
not apply to certain claims, there is no dispute about the terms themselves. Lindsay,
supra, on which Petitioners rely, unlike here, concerned the enforceability
of a settlement agreement about which there was a dispute whether it provided
for binding arbitration of disputed terms by the mediator who assisted
the parties reaching that agreement. The reference in the agreement to binding mediation
in the agreement was uncertain, leaving it unclear whether the parties had ever
reached agreement.  
8.      
As discussed above in item 5, where the Court finds
the claim concerning the 2011 will would not have accrued as of the date of the
Agreement, there should be no resulting concern that the terms of the Agreement
in any way displace the terms of her will, as was the concern in Muhammad,
supra. 
9.      
As discussed below in connection with
Respondents’ collateral estoppel argument, the Court concurs that the issues
the Utah Court ruled upon are not “identical” to those here. 
 
Respondents’ Arguments 
 
1.         
That Anne may have received an inheritance already
through her 101 Trust does not mean she must relinquish any continuing rights
she has to a part of assets in the 2011 Trust. The Court is uncertain how this
argument advances Respondents’ position. 
2.         
The Court has already addressed Respondents’
arguments above in item 4 concerning parties to the Agreement. 
3.         
Respondents argue Petitioners should
have brought these claims against Respondents in the ‘due diligence’ period
provided for in sec. 5 of the Agreement but did not do so. However, at least
according to Judge Gardner, the purpose of this window was due to David
purportedly not having provided Thomas or Ruth the full financial picture of
the Entities and therefore giving them a chance to inquire further into those
matters and file suit against David or Anne within a short window if they
discovered any wrongdoing. Hence, the window was truly addressed to Thomas or
Ruth being able to file suit, as opposed to Anne or David doing so, as here. While
Anne could have done so also during this window, the claims here do not pertain
to the wrongdoing that was the subject of the Utah action or to the tax
implications of the Agreement that Thomas may not have considered in entering
into the Agreement. The Agreement does not make clear whether Anne could have
permissibly brought unrelated actions, such as this, within that four-month
time-period.
          Moreover,
the Court cannot determine on this motion whether Anne knew – or should have
known - of any wrongdoing by Thomas within that time. Indeed, Petitioners
contend that Thomas “actively concealed” the existence of the 2011 will and
Trust. (Reply, p. 10) Therefore, the Court will need to hear the likely conflicting
extrinsic evidence on this issue prior to drawing a conclusion about the effect
of the Agreement. 
4.         
The Court has already addressed Respondents’
arguments above in item 1 concerning the scope of the Agreement. 
5.         
The Court has already addressed Respondents’
arguments above in item 6 concerning the alleged unconscionability of the
Agreement. 
6.         
Respondents have not brought a motion in
limine to exclude parol or extrinsic evidence in support of their contention
that the Agreement unambiguously released the claims at issue. However, they
can continue to assert this position at trial. As in Winet, supra, on
which they rely, here the parties to the Agreement were represented by counsel,
the parties were not in a position of unequal bargaining power and there were
not concerns that can arise in a personal injury case that might prevent a
court reading the release in an agreement literally. Likewise, this was not a
pre-printed boilerplate agreement; rather, it was heavily negotiated during a long
mediation. Petitioners may have to rebut Respondents’ defense that the
Agreement applies to bar these claims. See Jefferson, supra, 28
Cal.4th at 310 (party who contended release did not apply to
potential claim as to which she had not initiated litigation has burden of
expressly excepting claim from the release) 
7.         
For collateral estoppel to apply here, “(1)
the issue necessarily decided in the previous proceeding is identical to the
one that is sought to be relitigated; (2) the previous proceeding terminated
with a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom collateral
estoppel is asserted was a party to or in privity with a party in the previous
proceeding.” (Coscia, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 1194) 
          Here, it is probably without
substantial controversy that Respondents have established the second and third
elements. The Final Ruling provided for a final judgment on the merits. Anne and
David are petitioners herein and were respondents in the Utah action. Laura is
a petitioner in both cases. Those petitioners suing herein who did not execute
the Agreement may be in privity with either Anne, David or Laura - who did sign
the Agreement. Paragraphs 31 and 34 of the Agreement may serve to bind the
non-signatory petitioners. The dispute is whether “the issue necessarily
decided in the previous proceeding is identical to the one that is sought to be
relitigated.” 
          The issues here however are not
“identical” to the issues in the Utah action: This is not to say though that
the issues are not similar: In the Utah action, like here, Judge Gardner ruled
on whether certain of the parties’ claims (of both Anne and Thomas) were
covered by the release in the Agreement. In turn, as will this Court, Judge
Gardner addressed the scope of the release and the role of the carve-out
provision. Further, that he applied Utah law as opposed to California law (that
this Court would apply) would not appear to change how to resolve the issues. On
the other hand, the context of how those issues arose in the Utah action is
different than here; namely, whether Thomas was entitled to rescind the
Agreement based on theories of fraud and mistake. Those claims are not asserted
here by Petitioners (or Respondents). Further, as discussed above, the claims
Thomas contended were not released were ones pertaining to his management of
the 101 Trusts – that was at least the principal focus of the Agreement. Here,
by contrast, Petitioners’ claims do not pertain to the 101 Trusts or
mismanagement of the Entities by either Thomas or David. The claims here
pertain to alleged undue influence of Thomas over Ruth in her execution of the
2011 will and Trust and later amendments to the Trust. 
          The issue this Court faces (that the
Utah court did not) is whether the scope of the general release covers these
different claims, and the different reasons Petitioners argue why the release
should not apply, as discussed above. 
8.         
The Court concurs that an evidentiary
hearing is required as to Petitioners’ claim that the Agreement governs only
the disputed claims concerning the 101 Trusts. As indicated above, there are
several disputed issues as to whether Petitioners may permissibly contend that
some or all their claims were released by the Agreement. 
9.         
Respondents rely on CCP sec. 1856(a) to seek to
exclude evidence of some prior agreement or contemporaneous oral agreement that
would contradict the Agreement. However, as discussed above, that is not the
issue here. CCP sec. 1856(g) is relevant here: It provides in relevant part: “This
section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances under which the
agreement was made or to which it relates…or to explain an extrinsic ambiguity
or otherwise interpret the terms of the agreement….” The Court is denying this
motion precisely to hear that evidence at trial.
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 

        For these reasons, the Court denies the
motion to exclude extrinsic evidence to interpret the Agreement as it may apply
to the amended petition herein. 
 


