


[1] For ease of reference, and without intending any
disrespect, the Court refers to the family members by their first name. 


[2] George III had served as manager of the Entities
until 2000 when he was removed for mismanagement. 


[3] Other parties include various trusts which are
referred to therein as “TRUSTS.” These are the so-called 101 Trusts. Not
mentioned is the 2005 Trust or the 2011 Trust. 


[4] The Court has not considered the unpublished
decisions Petitioners cite on this and other points. Counsel is reminded
citation to those authorities is prohibited. 


[5] Effectively, Respondents argue as a cross-motion in
limine that they should prevail as a matter of law. 


[6] “It is the outward expression of the agreement,
rather than a party’s unexpressed intention, which the court will enforce…It is
appropriate to begin this investigation with a review of the literal
terminology of the contract. (Civ. Code secs. 1638, 1639)” Winet, supra,
4 Cal.App.4th at 1166


[7] Moreover, consistent with request in the motion, the
Court is not considering in this Phase of trial what Ruth intended by way of
the 2011 Trust, or if she was subject to undue influence in executing that
trust – which are the subject of Phase 2 of trial. 


[8] At trial, “[t]he decision whether to admit parol
evidence involves a two-step process. First, the court provisionally receives
(without actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties’
intentions to determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e., whether the language is ‘reasonably
susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by a party. If in light of the
extrinsic evidence the court decides the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’
to the interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in
the second step – interpreting the contract.” Winet, supra, 4 Cal.App.4th
at 1165


[9] That said, para. 18 suggests, to the contrary, that
the release is only as to the disputed matters. Para. 18 – contrary to what
Respondents  argue – states only that the
parties shall not file any actions against other parties going forward as to
released claims. It does not say as it could that the parties shall not file
any claims against other parties as to any matter arising prior to execution of
the Agreement. 
         In addition, Petitioners point to the
recitals to the Agreement as evidence of the limited scope of the Agreement. Conversely,
Respondents argue that recitals do not modify the provisions of the Agreement. 
          Further, the Court has not heard
evidence concerning what underlying property constitutes Ruth’s personal estate,
i.e., what would be in the 2005 Trust and or governed by the 2011 will and Trust.
Petitioners contend these assets are “separate” from the properties that make
up the 101 Trusts. By contrast, Respondents allude to them as part of the
assets the receiver is holding – who was appointed to manage the assets of the
101 Trusts. The degree to which these assets are separate may be significant in
determining whether any rights to those assets would be a potential claim that
would be governed by the release in the Agreement.   


[10] That the Agreement is susceptible to that
interpretation does not also mean the Court is concluding that they did not
sign in these capacities.   


[11] On the other hand, though Katherine, Christopher and
Henry Black (“Henry”) are also suing as co-trustees of Laura’s 101 Trust, the
Court does not know how they now could bring claims in those capacities – even
if they are not signatories to the Agreement - where Laura already agreed to
release all her claims concerning the 101 Trusts on behalf of herself and her
Trust (under para. 34 of the Agreement.) 


[12] Petitioners have not shown that for these purposes a
claim must have “accrued.” The issue may instead be whether Petitioners were
aware of a “potential” claim against Thomas related to the 2011 will and Trust.
(Jefferson, supra,
28 Cal.4th at 310) The Court will need to hear at trial whether Petitioners
knew or should have known of those potential claims. If they did have such
knowledge, Petitioners may have been under an obligation to specify claims of which they were suspicious if they
intended for those to be excluded. (Edwards, supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at
1168-69)


[13] Neubauer v. Goldfarb (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
47, cited by Petitioners, is not to the contrary. In Goldfarb, the
agreement at issue waived any fiduciary duties of the majority shareholders. That
did not occur here. 

