 Case Number:  22STCV34670    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV34670




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved from Deemed Admissions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Ross
  Dress for Less, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
October 31, 2022, Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley, in pro per (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant Ross Dress for Less (“Defendant”) for
damages after allegedly hitting her head on a metal shelf at Defendant’s
store.¿ Defendant filed an answer on December 12, 2022.¿¿ 
 
On December
12, 2022, Defendant served Request for Admissions, Set One on Plaintiff, and
responses were due January 17, 2023. (Min. Order, 11/20/23.) Plaintiff served
unverified responses on January 24, 2023.[1] On March 21, 2023,
Defendant filed and service a motion for order that matters be deemed admitted.
On November 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to deem
admitted its Request for Admissions, Set One. (Min. Order, 11/20/23.) The Court
reviewed Plaintiff’s responses and saw she responded with either: “This
Statement is Suggestive and Misleading” or “This Statement is False and Lacks
Merit.” The Court construed the “This Statement is False and Lacks Merit” as a
denial, which required a verification. Because no verification was provided,
the motion to deem admitted was granted.[2] (Id.) 
 
On February
29, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to “terminate sanctions”, which
appeared to seek relief from the November 20, 2023 discovery order. However,
the Court observed that Plaintiff did not state the basis for the relief she
was seeking, and also failed to show enough facts she did not receive actual
notice of the prior discovery motions. (Min. Order, 2/29/24.) 
 
On July 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to be relieved from the deemed
admissions, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300(a). Defendant
opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.300(a) states, “A party may withdraw or amend an
admission made in response to a request for admission only on leave of court
granted after notice to all parties.” Section 2033.300(b) states, “The court
may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that
the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect,
and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially
prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.” The
“mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” under section 2033.300 has
similar meanings as those words used in Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).
(New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1419.)¿ Under section 473(b), the error must
be “excusable” which means whether a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances might have made the same error. (Solv-All v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1003,
1007.) 
 
“Because the law
strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying
section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief.
Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny a motion under the statute is
limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence,
or¿neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or
amendment would substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in
maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.” (New Albertsons,
Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420–21.) 
 
If the court grants a motion to withdraw an admission, it may impose
conditions that are just, including, but not limited to, “(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission. (2) An
order that the costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part
by the party withdrawing or amending the admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.300 (c).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff’s declaration in support states the following: “I have acted
in good faith by responding in whole to Defendant’s request for Admissions. I
executed the document using a signatory line that acts as a form of
identification of the signatory and confirmation of the contents of a document.
It also acts as a form of verification that whatever document is signed, is
indeed true, real and valid. In the case of Admissions, a “Verified Statement”
was required instead.” (Mobley Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
She further states she was unable to tend to this litigation in March
2023 when her brother passed away, and in October 2023, when she contracted
COVID. (Mobley Decl. ¶ 4.) She also declares and attaches verified proposed
responses to the Request for Admissions, and states Defendant will not be
prejudiced since it already received these responses. She also declares that “within
about a month” of the deemed admissions order, she filed her motion seeking
relief “albeit using terminology and motion titles not applicable to the
desired outcome.” (Id. ¶ 8.)[3] 
 
In opposition, Defendant first argues this is an improper motion to
reconsider, since Plaintiff already sought this relief in the motion to
“terminate sanctions” that was denied on February 29, 2024. 
 
The responses were due on January 17, 2023. The motion to deem
admitted was filed and served on Plaintiff on March 21, 2023. The motion
explained caselaw regarding the impact of unverified responses. (Motion to Deem
Admitted at p. 4.) The proof of service attached to that motion indicates it
was served by mail and email. Plaintiff previously provided the Court with an
email dated August 17, 2023, showing acknowledgment that she had received the Request
for Admissions, as well as a motion to compel. (See Motion to Terminate
Sanctions, at Exh. A.) Defendant provided Plaintiff’s August 14, 2023
deposition testimony, wherein she confirmed receipt of the motions, and wherein
the parties discussed the need for verifications. (Opposition to Motion to
Terminate Sanctions, Exh. C.) The hearing was not until November 20, 2023. However,
Plaintiff did not serve the verification until February 5, 2024. Although the Court
issued the order to deem admitted on November 20, 2023, Plaintiff did not file
the “Motion to Terminate Sanctions” until February 6, 2024. On March 4, 2024, Defendant
filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings, due to the order deeming admitted
the requests for admissions, which explained the legal impact of the order to
deem admitted. The parties then appeared for trial, at which time the trial
court concluded Plaintiff was not ready to proceed with trial. (Minute Order,
6/28/24.)
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on July 18, 2024. The motion is
untimely as a motion to reconsider. Moreover, even if the motion is construed
as a motion to renew based on new facts or a motion under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2033.300, Plaintiff does not provide enough facts in her
declaration to explain how the failure to provide the verification was due to a
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. First, she argues that she did not
have sufficient time to properly respond to the volume of discovery. (Motion at
p. 1.) However, the responses themselves were served in January 2023, and
Plaintiff does not explain why it took over a year to verify them. Second, she argues
that the delay was due to Defendant’s lack of courtesy and professional
misconduct. (Id.) Again, however, this does not explain the failure to
provide a verification. To the extent she argues that counsel for Defendant did
not answer her questions regarding a verification, Defendant had no obligation
to advise her on the law and the motion itself explained the deficiency. Third,
Plaintiff states that in March of 2023, her brother suddenly passed away, and
in October of 2023, she contracted a form of Covid. (Mobley Decl. ¶ 4.) Given
the amount of time between the filing of the motion (March 2023) and the
hearing on the motion (November 2023), Plaintiff does not provide a sufficient
basis for the Court to find excusable neglect, particularly since her
deposition was taken in August and she was aware of the deficiency at that
time. Finally, although Plaintiff argues that there is no prejudice to
Defendant, it is apparent that Defendant has relied on the order to deem
admitted, in filing the motion for judgment on the pleadings, in advising the
trial court at the time of trial in motions in limine, and in filing a motion
for summary judgment. Although the law strongly favors trial on the merits, Plaintiff
simply has not provided a basis for the Court to find mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (See, e.g., Stover v. Bruntz (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 19,
31 [finding that pro per litigant was not entitled to disregard the rules for
timely responding to discovery and was not immune from the consequences of a
failure to do so].)[4]
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff argues her admissions contained only
objections, and therefore no verification is required. Plaintiff does not
explain how “this statement is false and lacks merit” can be construed as an
objection, rather than a denial. Regardless, even if all responses were somehow
objections, they were untimely and therefore waived. As such, the Court cannot
find that proper responses were served.
 
 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s
motion to be Relieved from Deemed Admissions is DENIED.  
 
Counsel for Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of
service of such. 
 


