 Case Number:  22STCV19719    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19719




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Henry Utama




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on July 3, 2024 by Petitioner Henry Utama (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Ian Law, age 15. The Court
denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
In a future petition, Petitioner must label the
attachments according to the numbers referenced in the petition. 
 
Petitioner asserts that Claimant has suffered the
following permanent injuries from a laceration from a park bench: nerve damage
to his thigh and anxiety. Petitioner provides no medical records regarding
anxiety. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 10c describing the terms of
the settlement.
 
Based on the values in item 12b, Petitioner indicates
that $1,470.03 will be reimbursed to private insurance (Rawlings Company) and
$710 will be reimbursed to Vimarn Thai Massage. This totals $2,180.03 in
medical reimbursements. However, this conflicts with item 12a(4) which only
states that $1,470.03 will be reimbursed. Additionally, Petitioner appears to
seek reimbursement for $710. Therefore, it is unclear the total amount of
medical expenses to be reimbursed, and it is unclear whether the $710 should be
reimbursed to Petitioner or Vimarn Thai Massage. Petitioner must amend the
values (note: the values in 12b(1-5) should equal the total reimbursement
amount sought in 12a(4)). 
 
Petitioner requests $36,774.58 in attorney fees which represents
45.96% of the gross settlement. However, this is over the 40% that Petitioner’s
attorney declares he is seeking, and which is stated in the fee agreement. (See
Shin Decl. ¶ 14.) The declaration is also insufficient to support the 40%
sought.
 
In item 14, Petitioner requests $710 reimbursement for
medical expenses. He must include attachment 14 with proof of payment of these
expenses. 
 
Claimant does not need to sign item 21 since he is not an
adult with a disability. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 