 Case Number:  23STCV31035    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV31035




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Subpoenas for Plaintiff’s Medical Billing and Radiology Records




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Angela Cendy Betancourt 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  City of Los Angeles



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 20, 2023, Plaintiff Angela Cendy Betancourt (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants City of Los Angeles, Ruffin A. Johnson, Shauna
Johnson, Jasmine Kostraba, an individual, and as trustee for Jasmin Kostraba
Trust, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries related to a sidewalk fall. Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for dangerous condition of public property, general
negligence, and premises liability.
 
On June 4, 2024, Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) served
eight subpoenas on Plaintiff’s medical and billing records to: (1) Los Angeles
General Medical Center – Medical Records; (2) Los Angeles General Medical
Center – Building A; (3) Los Angeles General Medical Center – Radiology; (4)
LAVI Spine and Orthopedic Medical; (5) Prohealth Advanced Imaging – Medical
Records; (6) MSM; (7) Prohealth Advanced Imaging – Radiology Department; and
(8) Kulagy Physical Therapy. (Asryan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) 
 
 Plaintiff now moves to quash
the subpoenas, arguing they are overboard in scope, and violate her right of
privacy. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the
California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To
the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information
to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subject subpoenas requests records from 1/30/2013 to the present.
They seek: 
 
“Any and all non-privileged physical and digital medical records
including but not limited to both private and industrial records, doctors
notes, treatment and evaluation records, nurses notes, inpatient and outpatient
records, correspondence, lab results, diagnostic test results and all medical
and radiology reports. To Include any and all Exchange of Liens of
Correspondences in addition to Meds, Bills, X-Rays, Insurance, etc.” 
 
The remaining subpoenas are similar in that they seek: “Any and all
non-privileged physical and digital” X-rays, MRI's and CT scans and reports,
and billing records. 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues the subpoenas violate her privacy and should be
limited in scope. The Court agrees.
 
The Court notes a
party’s medical records are privileged under the patient-physician privilege.
(See Hale v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1421, 1424.)¿ However,
where the party filing an action has arguably waived the privacy in their
protected or privileged information by filing a lawsuit, the waiver must be
narrowly construed such that discovery is only permitted of those matters
directly relevant to the party’s claims. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 858-859.) Notwithstanding, the party still has
privacy rights as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the claimed
injury.¿ (See id. at 864; Heller v. Norcal Mutual Insurance Co.
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 44.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues the discovery should be limited to the body parts at issue. But in her
motion, Plaintiff does not specify those limitations. According to the meet and
confer email that Plaintiff provides, it appears Defendant was unsure which
body parts were at issue. (Asryan Decl., Exh. 2.) However, in
opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has asserted “lumbar spine pain
and tailbone fracture” injuries in discovery. (Opp., 4; Bona Decl., Exh. B,
FROG No. 6.2 [response to “Identify each injury you attribute to the Incident
and the area of your body affected”: “lumbar spine pain and Tailbone Fracture”].)

 
Based on this discovery response, it appears that Plaintiff’s body
injuries are limited to her lumbar spine and a tailbone fracture. To the extent
that the discovery responses are unclear, Defendant should first ascertain
which body parts are actually at issue. Therefore, the subpoenas here are not sufficiently
limited and overbroad on their face.[1] 
 
Since Plaintiff has not requested sanctions, the Court declines to
award monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to quash subpoenas. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 


