 Case Number:  21STCV38984    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV38984




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendants Brand Buzz Limited
  Liability Company and E.S. Sutton, Inc.  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Meena C.
Nachiappan
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Fact
3.     Index of Evidentiary Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     None
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.     None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 21, 2021, Plaintiff
Andrew Arellano (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against J.B. Hunt Transport
Services, Inc., Dirt Cheap, Inc. dba DCG Fulfillment, Integrated Design, and
Does 1 to 20 for negligence. Plaintiff alleges that on March 13, 2021, while he
was attempting to move and transport a cargo container, it shifted and caused
the truck Plaintiff was driving, to overturn. Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
. . . negligently and improperly shipped, loaded, handled, transported, and
provided a transportable cargo container bearing equipment No. 328509.”
(Complaint, 4.) 
 
On December 14, 2021,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting California
Distribution Center, LLC, as Doe 1. 
 
On June 3, 2022, California
Distribution Center, LLC (“CDC”) filed a cross-complaint against Moving Cross-Defendants
Brand Buzz Limited Liability Company and E.S. Sutton, Inc. for total
equitable indemnity, comparative indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
 
Cross-Defendants Brand Buzz Limited Liability Company (“Brand Buzz”)
and E.S. Sutton, Inc. (“E.S. Sutton”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) now
move for summary judgment or adjudication, against the cross-complaint, arguing
they did not owe a duty of care to determine that the cargo was loaded safely.
No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages,
or an issue of duty.” (Id.)  
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                    
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
INDEMNITY
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2)
resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is ... equitably
responsible. [Citation.]” (Bailey v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [internal quotations omitted].) “[U[nless the prospective
indemnitor and indemnitee are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff
there is no basis for indemnity.” (Forensis Group, Inc. v. Frantz, Townsend
& Foldenauer (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 14, 28 [internal quotations
omitted].) 
 
NEGLIGENCE
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
 
I. Privette Doctrine
 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is
not liable to the contractor's employees for workplace injuries.  The
independent contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by
workers' compensation, as is the liability of the party who hired the
contractor.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693,
700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.) 
 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s workplace injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.  As such, even if there is
evidence that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries,
recovery is not available.  (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
693, 700-02.) 
 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or
death of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court
held that “an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to
recover damages from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the
cost of [workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor
presumably has calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]”
[Citation.]  
 
The Privette
holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally has “ ‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of doing the work
contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer “has no
obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor should
take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation, there
can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]  
 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)  Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of
decisions establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer
‘delegates to that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for
the contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at 642.)  
 
Privette
is based on the presumption that the hirer of an independent contractor
generally delegates to the contractor responsibility for supervising the job,
including responsibility for looking after employee safety. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252, 265.) In line with this presumption,
only the hirer of an independent contractor falls within the Privette
doctrine. (See id. [holding that landowner did not hire plaintiff for
purposes of the Privette doctrine where landowner’s tenant hired the
plaintiff independent contractor to perform work on the premises].) The person
asserting non-liability under Privette must “delegate a responsibility
for ensuring the worksite's safety, either directly or ‘through the chain of
delegation.’” (Id. [quoting Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010)
49 Cal.4th 518, 528–29.)  This delegation
“is project-specific, meaning it involves a duty limited not only to the
contracted-for work but also to the place where that work occurs.” (Id. at
268.)
 
On summary judgment, the rebuttable
presumption under Privette that an independent contractor’s hirer
delegates to that contractor its tort duty to provide a safe workplace for that
contractor’s employees, shifts the burden to the non-moving party to raise a
triable issue of fact. (See Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 642–643.) “However, a presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence does not arise until the foundational facts are
established.” (Id. at 644 [evidence that defendants hired plaintiff’s
employer to perform work and that plaintiff was injured while working on the
site, was sufficient to establish the Privette presumption and shift
burden to plaintiff on summary judgment].) 
 
A. Hooker Exception
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. 
(Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38
[cleaned up].) 
As the
Supreme Court of California has explained:
 
“A hirer ‘actually
exercise[s]’ its retained control over the contracted work when it involves
itself in the contracted work ‘such that the contractor is not entirely free to
do the work in the contractor's own manner.’ [Citations.] In other words, the
hirer must exert some influence over the manner in which the contracted work is
performed. Unlike ‘retained control,’ which is satisfied where the hirer
retains merely the right to become so involved, ‘actual exercise’ requires that
the hirer in fact involve itself, such as through direction, participation, or
induced reliance. (See, e.g., Kinney v. CSB Construction, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 28, 39, 103 Cal.Rptr.2d 594 (Kinney) [a hirer's “mere
failure to exercise a power to compel the [contractor] to adopt safer
procedures does not, without more, violate any duty owed to the [contract
worker]”]; [Citation.]” 
(Sandoval
v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 276.) 
 
“ ‘Affirmative
contribution’ means that the hirer's exercise of retained control contributes
to the injury in a way that isn't merely derivative of the contractor's
contribution to the injury. (See Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p.
212, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 [hirer liability based on affirmative
contribution does not merely “ ‘ “derive[ ] from the ‘act or omission’ of the
hired contractor” ’ ”].) Where the contractor's conduct is the immediate cause
of injury, the affirmative contribution requirement can be satisfied only if
the hirer in some respect induced — not just failed to prevent — the
contractor's injury-causing conduct. (See, e.g., Kinney, supra, 87
Cal.App.4th at p. 36, 103 Cal.Rptr.2d 594 [requiring that the hirer “induc[e]
[the contractor's] injurious action or inaction through actual direction,
reliance on the hirer, or otherwise”] . . . .” 
(Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 277.) 
 
“A hirer's
conduct also satisfies the affirmative contribution requirement where the
hirer's exercise of retained control contributes to the injury independently of
the contractor's contribution (if any) to the injury. (See, e.g., Hooker,
at p. 212, fn. 3, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 [observing that hirer
liability would be appropriate where “the hirer promises to undertake a
particular safety measure, then ... negligent[ly] fail[s] to do so”]; Ray,
supra, 98 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1133–1134, 120 Cal.Rptr.2d 251 [finding Hooker
liability where hirer prohibited contractor from erecting road barricade that
might have prevented injury].) The critical factor here is the relationship
between the hirer's conduct and the contractor's conduct, not whether the
hirer's conduct, assessed in isolation, can be described as ‘affirmative
conduct.’ [Citation.] Importantly, neither ‘actual exercise’ nor ‘affirmative
contribution’ requires that the hirer's negligence (if any) consist of an
affirmative act. The hirer's negligence may take the form of any act, course of
conduct, or failure to take a reasonable precaution that is within the scope of
its duty under Hooker.” 
(Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at 277.) 
 
            B. Analysis 
 
Cross-Defendants
contend that Brand Buzz is the manufacturer and seller of the goods that
Plaintiff was attempting to transport. (UMF 6.) E.S. Sutton is a “back-office
business that assists other companies, such as Brand Buzz, with their
distribution needs.” (UMF 7.) CDC serves as a warehouse for third parties; the
company receives and offloads products from manufacturers, stores the products
in its warehouse, and creates pallets to ship the products out. Shipping
partners then come to CDC to collect the goods. (UMF 8.) CDC employees load the
products into the shipping partner’s trailer. (UMF 9.)
 
In early 2021, Brand Buzz utilized
CDC to store and facilitate the shipping of a batch of Brand Buzz wholesale
products, identified as “Batch BB567,” that were ordered by the retailer,
Dollar General. (UMF 10.) CDC employees loaded the products into the shipping
partner’s trailer. (UMF 9.) Batch BB567 included 82 separate orders, amounting
to over 200,000 cartons of product, with a combined weight of over 1 million
pounds. (UMF 11.) Based on the weight, packaging and contents of the goods
included in Batch BB567, the pallets of product could be double stacked if
necessary. (UMF 12.) Mr. Reyna was employed by MJM. (UMF 14.) Brand Buzz and
E.S. Sutton had no involvement in retaining J.B. Hunt or MJM to transport the
Subject Load. (UMF 19-20.) CDC loaded the Subject Load into Mr. Reyna’s
trailer. (UMF 22.)
 
CDC’s only policy on March 13, 2021
regarding securing loading trailer units and weight distribution, was to comply
with the customer’s loading instructions. (UMF 27-29.) On March 13, 2021, while
Plaintiff was moving the Subject Load at the BNSF railyard, his truck
overturned. (UMF 24.) Plaintiff contends that the Subject Load was loaded in an
unsafe and unreasonable manner that resulted in the load shifting and causing
Plaintiff’s truck to overturn. (UMF 25.) Brand Buzz and E.S. Sutton had no
involvement in loading, securing, handling or transporting the Subject Load.
(UMF 38-39.) No Brand Buzz or E.S. Sutton employees or representatives were
present at the CDC warehouse in Ontario, CA at the time the Subject Load was
loaded into the trailer. (UMF 40-41.) 
 
CDC contends that E.S. Sutton is
liable since its logistics manager, Shalom Braun, instructed CDC to double
stack all the goods in Batch BB567. (UMF 30.) CDC similarly argues that Brand
Buzz is liable due to its affiliation with E.S. Sutton. (UMF 34.)  
 
In this motion, Cross-Defendants
argue they are not liable because as hirers of an independent contractor, they
are not liable for the negligent acts of the contractor. Brand Buzz has met its
initial burden. Because cross-complainant has not opposed the motion, the Court
finds the absence of a triable issue of material fact as to Brand Buzz.
However, as to E.S. Sutton, cross-defendant simply argues that “by extension”
it “delegated to CDC the authority to determine best practices.” (Motion at p.
8.) E.S. Sutton has not met its initial burden to establish that it hired an
independent contractor.
 
Next, Cross-Defendants argue they did not owe a duty of care.

 
II. Duty of Care
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not
only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,
willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that
each person has a duty to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care
for the safety of others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th
204, 214.)  “[T]he law imposes a general duty of
care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has created a risk of
harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant is responsible for making
the plaintiff's position worse. [Citation.]” (Id. [internal quotation
marks omitted].)
“The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed
by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v.
United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128,
internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law
for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14
Cal.4th 814, 819.) 
 
To
determine if a duty to protect exists, the court must make a two-step inquiry:
“[f]irst, the court must determine whether there exists a special relationship
between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise to an
affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the factors
described in Rowland to determine whether relevant policy considerations
counsel limiting that duty.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 209.) “These considerations
include ‘the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty
that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.’” (Id. at 211, fn.
3.)
 
Here, Cross-Defendants argue they owed no duty based on the Rowland
factors and based on federal law. They argue the only evidence supporting
Cross-Complainant’s claim is an email from E.S. Sutton’s logistics manager that
“[a]ll goods should be double stacked as Mark sent you cartons per pallet.”
(Index of Exhibits, Exh. G.) This email does not discuss how the goods should
be loaded or secured. Cross-Defendants have met their initial burden. Because
Cross-Complainant has not responded, the Court finds the absence of a triable
issue of fact.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants Brand Buzz Limited
Liability Company and E.S. Sutton, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Cross-Defendants shall give notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.