 Case Number:  23STCV02907    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02907




MOTIONS:  


Demurrer
  to Barrett Jeffer’s Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant Automobile Club of Southern
  California




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant
  Barrett Jeffers




 
MOTION
 
On
February 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Arturo Peza Amezquita, Yolanda Lopez de Salas, and
Lizbeth Abigail Salas Lopez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Lyft, Inc., Barrett Jeffers, Jane Doe, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence related
to a motor vehicle accident that occurred on June 25, 2021. Plaintiffs allege
they were passengers in a Lyft vehicle which collided with a vehicle driven by
Barrett Jeffers (“Jeffers”). (Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
On
July 31, 2023, Jeffers filed a cross-complaint against Automobile
Club of Southern California, Oswaldo Zamora, Lyft, Inc., and Roes 1 to 25 for
declaratory relief, equitable indemnity, total equitable indemnity, and
negligence. 
 
Cross-Defendant Automobile Club of Southern California
(“Cross-Defendant”) now demurs to the cross-complaint arguing it fails to state
sufficient facts. Jeffers opposes and Cross-Defendant replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
The Declaration of Mark P. LaScola,
Cross-Defendant’s counsel, states the following: “Cross-Complainant’s counsel,
Arturo Santana, Esq., and I spoke via telephone and communicated via email on
multiple occasions, doing our best to resolve the issues contained herein.  Finally, on May 17, 2024, Mr. Santana
conveyed to me that -- due to our disagreement over the allegations contained
in the Cross-Complaint -- we would be unable to informally resolve the issues
now before the Court, thus leaving me no choice but to move forward with filing
this Demurrer on behalf of Cross-Defendant.” (See LaScola Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court denies Cross-Defendant’s request for judicial notice of the Department of
Motor Vehicle’s webpage as it does not appear to be a regulation under Evidence
Code section 452(b). (See Exh. A.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, the cross-complaint
alleges that Jeffers gifted the subject car involved in Plaintiffs’ action to
Oswaldo Zamora (“Zamora”) on March 22, 2021. Jeffers further alleges that on
March 27, 2021, he “went to the AAA office located near the intersection of Century
Blvd and Crenshaw Blvd. Jeffers, accompanied by his wife, went to the noted AAA
location to turn in a "Notice of Transfer and Release Of Liability"
("NOTICE") form to the AAA office so that the AAA could process the
NOTICE and file it with the Department of Motor Vehicles (which is a service
provided to AAA members) and so that the DMV could reflect that the vehicle was
now owned by Zamora.” (Cross Complaint ¶ 9.) 
 
Jeffers further alleges: “Notwithstanding
that the AAA allegedly processed (or should have processed) the NOTICE with the
DMV, the DMV, unbeknownst to Jeffers, apparently reflected that as of June 25,
2021, Jeffers was allegedly still the registered owner of the vehicle.” (Cross
Complaint ¶ 13.) “Prior to February 16, 2023, Jeffers had no knowledge that he
was allegedly the registered owner of the vehicle or that the AAA had failed to
process the NOTICE with the DMV or that the vehicle had been involved in an
accident with the vehicle operated by Lyft.” (Id. ¶ 17.) 
 
 

Negligence 

 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) “While negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the
existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be addressed by
demurrer.” (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1095.)
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not
only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,
willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that
each person has a duty to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care
for the safety of others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th
204, 214.)  “[T]he law imposes a general duty of
care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has created a risk of
harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant is responsible for making
the plaintiff's position worse. [Citation.]” (Id. [internal quotation
marks omitted].)
“The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed
by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v.
United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128,
internal quotations omitted.) 
 
To
determine if a duty to protect exists, the court must make a two-step inquiry:
“[f]irst, the court must determine whether there exists a special relationship
between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise to an
affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the factors
described in Rowland to determine whether relevant policy considerations
counsel limiting that duty.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 209.) “These considerations
include ‘the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty
that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.’” (Id. at 211, fn.
3.)
 
“[I]n analyzing duty, the court's task ‘is not to
decide whether a particular plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular
defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether the category
of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of
harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed on the negligent
party.’ [Citation.] Viewed in this light, the question of foreseeability in a
‘duty’ context is a limited one for the court, and readily contrasted with the
fact-specific foreseeability questions bearing on negligence (breach of duty)
and proximate causation posed to the jury or trier of fact. [Citation.]” 
(Laabs v. Southern California Edison Co. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1260,
1273 [internal quotations omitted].) Stated differently, “a court's task—in
determining ‘duty’—is not to decide whether a particular plaintiff's injury was
reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular defendant's conduct, but rather
to evaluate more generally whether the category of negligent conduct at issue
is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of harm experienced that liability
may appropriately be imposed on the negligent party.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp.¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1620 [quoting Ballard
v. Uribe (1986) 41 Cal.3d 564, 573, fn. 6].) 
 
            Here, the cross complaint
alleges that Jeffers has a relationship with Cross-Defendant as a member and
Cross-Defendant had a duty to properly register the change in ownership of the
vehicle. (Cross Complaint ¶ 32.) Jeffers alleges Cross-Defendant breached this
duty, which has led to damages. 
 
      Cross-Defendant argues the
negligence cause of action is insufficient because considering the Rowland
factor of foreseeability, it owed no duty. It also argues that Vehicle Code
section 5600 establishes that it owed no duty to register the change in
ownership with the DMV.[1]
However, section 5600 does not address Jeffers’ allegation that although not
necessarily required by the Vehicle Code, Cross-Defendant provided this service
to its members. (See Cross Complaint ¶
9.) As noted above, a duty of care may be “assumed by the
defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United
States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128.) Therefore,
Cross-Defendant fails to show that it owes no duty under the alleged facts. 
 
Second, Jeffers sufficiently alleges Cross-Defendants
breached their duty. (Cross Complaint ¶ 33.) 
 
As a result, the demurrer to the negligence cause of action
is overruled.    
 
 

Equitable Indemnity and Total Equitable
     Indemnity

 
“The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible. [Citation.]” (Bailey
v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [internal quotations
omitted].) “There are two basic types of indemnity: express indemnity, which
relies on an express contract term providing for indemnification, and equitable
indemnity, which embraces ‘traditional equitable indemnity’ and implied
contractual indemnity.” (Jocer Enterprises, Inc. v. Price¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 559, 573.)
 
“Traditional equitable indemnity and implied contractual
indemnity share a key feature that distinguishes them from express indemnity:
unlike express indemnity, neither traditional equitable indemnity nor implied
contractual indemnity is available ‘in the absence of a joint legal obligation
to the injured party.’ [Citation.] Under this principle, ‘there can be no
indemnity without liability,’ that is, the indemnitee and the indemnitor must
share liability for the injury. [citations omitted.].” (Jocer Enterprises, Inc., supra, 183
Cal.App.4th at 573 [internal quotations omitted].)  “Thus, no indemnity may be obtained
from an entity that has no pertinent duty to the injured third party [Citation],
that is immune from liability [citation], or that has been found not to be
responsible for the injury.” (Id. at 573-74.) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint provides no facts
showing how Cross-Defendant is liable for Plaintiffs’ injuries. Therefore, the
demurrer to the second and third cause of action is sustained.  
 
 

Declaratory Relief

Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 states in
part the following:
“Any person interested under a written
instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in
respect to, in, over or upon property, . . . may, in cases of actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties,
bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a
declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract.”
Under section 1061, “[t]he
court may refuse to exercise the power granted [in section 1060] in any case
where its declaration or determination is not necessary or proper at the time
under all the circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1061.) 
“Declaratory relief is
available to a party ‘who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties
with respect to another ....’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) A complaint for
declaratory relief is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the
existence of an actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of
the parties and requests that the rights and duties of the parties be adjudged
by the court. If these requirements are met and no basis for declining
declaratory relief appears, the court should declare the rights of the parties
whether or not the facts alleged establish the plaintiff is entitled to
favorable declaration. [Citation.] ‘Declaratory relief operates prospectively,
serving to set controversies at rest before obligations are repudiated, rights
are invaded or wrongs are committed. Thus the remedy is to be used to advance
preventative justice, to declare rather than execute rights. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]
In essence, declaratory relief operates to declare future rights, not to
address past wrongs.” (Monterey Coastkeeper v. Central Coast Regional Water
Quality Control Board (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.) 
“A party seeking
declaratory relief must show a very significant possibility of future harm. [Citation.]
In assessing whether declaratory relief is available, a court determines
whether ‘a probable future dispute over legal rights between parties is
sufficiently ripe to represent an “actual controversy” within the meaning of
the statute authorizing declaratory relief (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060), as
opposed to purely hypothetical concerns ....’ [Citation.] ‘An “actual
controversy” under the declaratory relief statute is “one which admits of
definitive and conclusive relief by judgment within the field of judicial
administration, as distinguished from an advisory opinion upon a particular or
hypothetical state of facts.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Monterey
Coastkeeper, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at 13.) Additionally,
where “a party has a fully matured cause of action for money, the party must
seek the remedy of damages, and not pursue a declaratory relief claim.” (Canova
v. Trustees of Imperial Irrigation Dist. Employee Pension Plan (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1497.) 
Here, the cause of action
for declaratory relief appears to be based on the equitable indemnity causes of
action. (See Cross Complaint ¶ 23.) The only other cause of action to survive
this demurrer is negligence, for which Jeffers seeks money damages. (See Cross
Complaint, 8:2.) Therefore, seeing as the demurrers to the indemnity causes of
action have been sustained, the Cross Complaint fails to show a basis for a
probable future dispute, especially given that Jeffers has a cause of action
for money damages. Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
sustained.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant Automobile Club of
Southern California’s demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action
in the cross complaint filed by Barrett Jeffers, for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, with leave to amend. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the fourth cause of action in the
cross complaint. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 
 


