  Case Number:  21VECV00692    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  T 21VECV00692 SHABNAM
AKHOUNDZADEH vs RICHARD KHATIBI
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Complainants Faezeh Afchehe and Melica
S. Khatibi’s Motion for Leave to File the Proposed Fourth Amended
Cross-Complaint is DENIED.
Cross-Defendants Shabnam
Akhoundzadeh and Karen Dr LLC’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not
as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Cross-Complainants Faezeh Afchehe
and Melica S. Khatibi (collectively, Cross-Complainants) moved for leave to
file a Proposed Fourth Amended Cross-Complaint (P4AXC).  Cross-Defendants Ebrahim Khatibi, Aliasghar
Khatibi, Ali Sepehr, and AEK Global Investments, LLC filed their opposition and
a notice of errata on November 21, 2023. 
Cross-Defendants Shabnam Akhoundzadeh and Karen Dr. LLC filed their
separate opposition on November 21, 2023. 
Cross-Defendants Ebrahim Khatibi, Aliasghar Khatibi, Ali Sepehr, and AEK
Global, Shabnam Akhoundzadeh, and Karen Dr. LLC are collectively referred to as
“Cross-Defendants.” Cross-Complainants filed their reply on November 29,
2023.  
Discussion  
Cross-Complainants asserted that
the P4AXC added new factual allegations in paragraphs 31-64, amended the
allegations in paragraphs 65-70; amended the incorporating paragraphs in each
cause of action; added a new cause of action for adverse possession alleged in
paragraphs 213-219; and amended Prayer page 45:11-12 and 16-17.  A party requesting leave to amend must
include a copy of the proposed amended pleading and attach a declaration by
counsel to show: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made earlier. The motion
itself must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted and what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted or additional
allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324.)  
The declaration of Michael
Kwasigroch failed to present facts to show the effect and necessity/propriety
of the amendments, although the motion provided that new fact allegations are
being made and an adverse possession is being added as a cause of action.  Further, Mr. Kwasigroch’s declaration failed
to provide specific facts as to when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered and why the request was not made earlier.  The conclusory assertion that the new facts
were discovered “over a period of time” is insufficient.  (Kwasigroch Decl. pars. 2-3.)  Further, Mr. Kwasigroch failed to present any
facts to show why the amendment was not presented earlier.  The original Cross-Complaint in this action
was filed on September 9, 2021.  The
instant motion was filed over two years later on September 20, 2023.  Without facts to show when the new facts were
discovered and why the amendment was not presented earlier, there is grounds to
deny the motion.
The motion provided page, line,
and paragraph citation to the newly added and/or amended allegations but failed
to state the amended or added allegation. 
On this defect, there is further grounds to deny the motion.
 A court can deny leave to amend after long,
inexcusable delay, where there is cognizable prejudice, such as discovery
needed, trial delay, critical evidence lost, or added preparation expense.  (Solit v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th
1435, 1448.)  As stated above, the motion
was inexcusably delayed. 
Cross-Defendants provided that they will suffer prejudice in additional
costs incurred in reopening the pleadings for attack and to again depose
Cross-Complainant Richard Khatibi, and Cross-Defendants Aliasghar Khatibi and
Ebrahim Khatibi.  Further,
Cross-Defendant Shabnam Akhoundzadeh asserted prejudice in that she is being
reinserted into the new P4AXC when she was dismissed as to all causes of action
in the third amended cross-complaint (except for the malicious prosecution
cause of action.)  Cross-Defendant Karen
Dr. LLC also asserted that they are being reinserted back into dismissed causes
of action and would be prejudiced.  With
the long and unexcused delay in bringing the motion and Cross-Defendants’ prejudice,
there is sufficient grounds to deny the motion.
Cross-Defendants’ arguments as to
the merits, validity, or veracity of the newly proposed allegations and statute
of fraud contention were not considered in ruling upon the motion because the
grounds for the argument are not proper for a motion for leave to amend.  
_______________________________
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The Court treated Cross-Defendant Shabnam
Akhoundzadeh’s Motion for Summary Judgment and the alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication against the Third Amended Cross-Complaint as a Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings.  
The Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings against the fifteenth cause of action for malicious prosecution is
GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND in order to plead facts to identify the
prior lawsuit at issue and allege facts to plead that the prior lawsuit
terminated in Cross-Complainants’ favor. 
Cross-Complainants are ORDERED to file an “Amendment to the Third
Amended Cross-Complaint” and NOT a “Fourth Amended Cross-Complaint.”  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defect reviewed below and not to add any new causes of action. 
The instant Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication will be reset for hearing on _____________, 2024 at 8:30
a.m.  No further briefing is permitted
EXCEPT for the lodging of Cross-Complainants’ Amended Opposition to properly
cross-reference the Amended Separate Statement and Cross-Defendants’ reply
briefs.  
 Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Shabnam
Akhoundzadeh (Cross-Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) or
alternatively for summary adjudication (MSA) against Cross-Complainants Richard
Khatibi, Faezeh Afchehe, and Melica Khatibi’s (collectively,
Cross-Complainants) Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TAXC).  The MSJ/MSA specifically moved against the
fifteenth cause of action (COA) for malicious prosecution.              
Discussion  
“[T]he pleadings determine the
scope of relevant issues on a summary judgment motion”  (Nieto v. Blue Shield of Calif. Life &
Health Ins. Co. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 60, 74.) 
“ ‘A defendant's motion for summary judgment necessarily includes a test
of the sufficiency of the complaint. [Citation.] When a motion for summary
judgment is used to test whether the complaint states a cause of action, the
court will apply the rule applicable to demurrers and accept the allegations of
the complaint as true. [Citation.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (Prue v. Brady
Co./San Diego, Inc. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1375-1376.)  The Court noted that Cross-Defendant did not
test the sufficiency of the pleadings on the TAXC or any of the prior
iterations of the cross-complaint. 
Cross-Defendant did not file a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  The instant motion is the
Court’s first review of the pleading’s sufficiency of the malicious prosecution
COA.  The Court considered the instant
MSJ/MSA as Cross-Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings.  
The elements of malicious
prosecution are:  “That defendant was
actively involved in bringing or continuing the lawsuit; That the lawsuit ended
in plaintiff’s [Cross-Complainant’s] favor; That no reasonable person in
defendant’s circumstances would have believed that there were reasonable
grounds to bring the lawsuit against plaintiff; That defendant acted primarily
for a purpose other than succeeding on the merits of the claim; That  plaintiff was harmed; and That defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.”  (CACI no. 1501.)  Preliminarily, the Court noted that the
factual allegations only provided facts related to the joint venture between
the parties and the ultimate breaches or malfeasance related to the joint
venture, as well as transactions related to several real properties and
specifically property located on Karen Drive and transactions related to
alleged inheritance.  (TAXC pars.
18-45.)  The only reference related to
any prior lawsuit was alleged to be the filing of “the instant case” or the
filing of “a lawsuit.”  (TAXC pars. 29
and 164.)  It is inferred that
Cross-Complainants meant the underlying Complaint.  However, without further facts, it is unclear
if the COA is grounded on the filing of the underlying Complaint.  For failing to expressly identify the prior
lawsuit at issue, the TAXC’s malicious prosecution COA is defectively pled.
It is further noted that at the
time the original Cross-Complaint was filed on September 9, 2021, the
underlying Complaint was still pending. 
The underlying Complaint was filed about four months prior to the filing
of the Cross-Complaint, on May 24, 2021. 
The Court record reflects that the underlying Complaint was ultimately
dismissed on October 20, 2021, after the filing of the original
Cross-Complaint.  The First Amended
Cross-Complaint and the Second Amended Cross-Complaint were filed on January 4,
2022 and March 30, 2022, respectively. 
These subsequent pleadings plus the instant TAXC failed to allege facts
to plead that the prior lawsuit was terminated in Cross-Complainants’ favor,
despite potential facts existing to support the pleading element.  Due to the TAXC’s failure to plead facts to
allege favorable termination, the TAXC is insufficiently pled with supportive
facts.
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The Court further noted that
Cross-Complainants requested a brief continuance to allow Cross-Complainant to
cross-reference the belatedly received deposition transcripts from Neda
Manshoory’s deposition and the second volume of Ebrahim Khatibi’s testimony in
their separate statement.  The Court’s
review of the instant MSJ/MSA as a motion for judgment on the pleadings affords
Cross-Complainants the time requested to amend their opposition so as to
properly reference the newly obtained deposition testimony and amended separate
statement.  Cross-Defendant will further
be provided additional time to review and reply to the newly submitted
opposition, separate statement, and evidence.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.