 Case Number:  23VECV03770    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  T [TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants Pouran Abdipour and
Patricia Linda Douglas’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety.  Defendants Pouran Abdipour and Patricia Linda
Douglas are ORDERED to file an Answer with 20 days.
 
Introduction

            Defendants Pouran
Abdipour and Patricia Linda Douglas (collectively, Defendants) demurred to
Plaintiff Keivan Hashjin’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for collection of rent on substandard dwelling in
violation of L.A.M.C. sec. 12.00 et seq., the second COA for breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, the third COA for negligence, the fourth COA
for breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, the fifth COA for
violation Civil Code sec. 1940.2, the sixth COA for violation of Civil Code
sec. 1954(a)(2), the seventh COA for trespass, the eighth COA for nuisance, and
the ninth COA for violation of Civil Code sec. 52.1.  
            Procedure
            Despite Defendants’
notice to the demurrer asserting that they are moving against the “entire
complaint,” Defendants’ points and authorities failed to present any argument,
legal authority, or application of facts to law to support their alleged
demurrer to the third COA for negligence, the fourth COA for breach of the
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, and the fifth COA for violation Civil Code
sec. 1940.2.  Without any argument to
support the demurrer as to these COAs, Defendants failed to meet their initial
burden on the motion.  
            The demurrer to the
third COA for negligence, the fourth COA for breach of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment, and the fifth COA for violation Civil Code sec. 1940.2 is
OVERRULED.
 
            Discussion 


            Defendants argued that there is no
private right action as to the first COA for collection of rent on substandard
dwelling in violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code sec. 12.00 et seq.   Plaintiff alleged violations of Los Angeles
Municipal Code secs. 12.03, 12.21, 12.26.E.1, and 91.109.1.  (Compl. pars. 13, 17, and 19.)  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants failed to
obtain a “certificate of occupancy” for the leased premise.  Defendants’ argued that there is no private
right of action for the claim, however, Defendants failed to present any legal
authority to support the contention. 
Without supportive legal authority, the argument is unpersuasive.  
            The demurrer to the first COA is OVERRULED.
Defendants argued that the
second COA for breach of the implied warranty of habitability is insufficiently
alleged because it is actually an express warranty and cited to Civil Code,
sec. 1941.1 et seq.  However, the
demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  Titling the COA as implied or express is not
proper grounds for a demurrer, especially when the body of the COA sufficiently
pleads facts to support an implied warranty of habitability COA based upon the
statute.  (Compl. pars. 13, 22-30.)  Plaintiff expressly alleged specific defects
in the property:   “inadequate
waterproofing and weather protection giving rise to numerous leaks, improper
sinks/bathtubs/showers, lack of heating facilities and/or improper operation of
required ventilation equipment, problems affecting exterior walls, roofs,
windows and doors, vermin/rodents, and lack of an adequate and/or safe exit
route causing Plaintiff to fall on the premises.”  (Compl. par. 13.)  Further, the Court disagrees with Defendants’
contention that the COA is an “express” warranty claim.  
The demurrer to the
second COA is OVERRULED. 
Defendants argued that the
sixth COA for violation of Civil Code sec. 1954(a)(2) – Unlawful Entry is not
an independent COA and subsumed under the COA for breach of implied warranty of
quiet enjoyment. (Civ. Code, sec. 1927.) 
Again, there are insufficient legal authorities presented to support
Defendants’ contention that Unlawful/Unauthorized Entry by a Landlord is not an
independent COA and/or the claim is “subsumed” under the warranty of quiet
enjoyment.  Plaintiff alleged that
Defendants entered the premise without proper notice or consent on May 18,
2023.  (Compl. par. 50.)  The allegation is sufficient to, at minimum,
alleged trespass and, at most, allege a violation of Civil Code sec. 1954.  The demurrer argument is not persuasive.
The demurrer to the sixth
COA is OVERRULED.  
Defendants argued that the
seventh COA for trespass failed to plead facts to show when the entry occurred,
causation, and damages is duplicative of the damages in the other COAs.  As was alleged under the sixth COA, Plaintiff
alleged that on May 18, 2023 Defendants entered the premise without consent or
notice.  (Compl. par. 55.)  Dispute Defendants’ contention otherwise,
Plaintiff alleged when the trespass occurred even though dates are not a
pleading element of trespass.  To the
extent Defendants argued against the allegation that it was “not the first
occasion where” the trespass occurred, the Court finds the argument
unpersuasive, again, because dates or times are not pleading elements of
trespass.  (CACI no. 2000.)  Causation is sufficiently alleged because
Plaintiff alleged Defendants (or their agents, servants, employees, or representatives)
entered the premise.  (Compl. par.
55.)  Damages is sufficiently alleged
because Plaintiff allegedly suffered emotional and financial damage.  (Compl. par. 58.)  The trespass COA is sufficiently alleged with
supportive facts.
The demurrer to the
seventh COA is OVERRULED.  
Defendants argued that the
eighth COA for nuisance failed to allege specific facts as to the nature or
duration of the nuisance.  Plaintiff
alleged that the nature and duration of the nuisance involved Defendants’
failure to repair defects in the property (i.e., “inadequate waterproofing and
weather protection giving rise to numerous leaks, improper
sinks/bathtubs/showers, lack of heating facilities and/or improper operation of
required ventilation equipment, problems affecting exterior walls, roofs,
windows and doors, vermin/rodents, and lack of an adequate and/or safe exit
route causing Plaintiff to fall on the premises” (Compl. par. 13) and
Defendants’ entry into the premise without consent or notice on more than one
occasion.  (Compl. pars. 50, 55, and 60.)  The pleading is sufficient to survive the
demurrer.  Defendant also argued that
causation and damages are also not specifically pled.  The Court finds that causation and damages
are sufficiently alleged in Complaint paragraphs 63-64.  The demurrer arguments are not persuasive.
The demurrer to the
eighth COA is OVERRULED. 
Defendants
argued that there is no private right action as to the ninth COA for violation of Civil Code sec.
52.1 (Bane Act).  However, Defendants
again failed to present any legal authority to support the contention.  Defendants’ citation to the statute stating
that the Attorney General, a district attorney, or a city attorney may file a
civil action is insufficient to support their contention that these government
entities are the only persons that can file a civil action.  Further, the contention is belied by Civil
Code section 52.1(c).  Defendants’
argument is not persuasive.
The demurrer to the ninth
COA is OVERRULED.  
            IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.