 Case Number:  BC691050    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  11 Date: 9/29/2023 Case No:  BC 691050 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Steger v. CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, et al. DISCOVERY MOTIONS (4)Moving Party: Defendants Olympus America Inc. and Defendants John A. Kasher, M.D. and  James Kao M.D.  (Motion to Clarify) Responding Party:  Plaintiff Jason Steger (Motions to Compel Deposition, Motion to Augment  Expert Witness Designation)     RELIEF REQUESTED:Motion to Clarify Order clarifying the comments at the September 15, 2023 hearing regarding the discovery cutoff or, in the alternative, allowing the completion of only the deposition of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Tawhid GaziMotions to Compel Depositions (2) Order compelling the deposition of the Person Most Qualified for Olympus America Inc. and Production of Documents   Order compelling the deposition of the Person Most Qualified for Olympus Corporations of Americas and Production of Documents Motion to Augment Order permitting plaintiff to augment his expert witness list to add experts.  FACTUAL and PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Jason Steger alleges that in October of 2016, plaintiff was admitted to defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center with abdominal pain, and that defendants, various medical providers, negligently performed a colonoscopy procedure on plaintiff which perforated his colon in multiple areas.  Plaintiff alleges that after the procedure, his pain worsened, and he went into septic shock.  Plaintiff alleges that he ultimately underwent a total colectomy with ileostomy and other procedures, and his entire colon was removed.  On September 6, 2019, the court heard a motion for summary judgment brought by defendant Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, which was granted on the ground that in opposition to the motion, plaintiff had failed to submit expert medical testimony to raise a triable issue of material fact.  The court denied a motion for new trial on October 25, 2019, and on January 17, 2020, heard a motion for relief under CCP § 473 (b), which was denied. The file shows that on February 4, 2020 plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal, giving notice plaintiff was appealing the court’s orders of September 6, 2019, October 25, 2019, and January 17, 2020.On July 6, 2020, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant Olympus America, Inc. as the true name of the defendant designated in the complaint as Doe 1.    The operative complaint alleges that  defendant Olympus America sells, markets and services medical products, including endoscopes such as the specific endoscopes involved in the subject incident, that the endoscopes were defective, that the Olympus defendants performed inadequate evaluation and testing of the scopes, including failing to properly determine the scope’s reprocessing protocol adequately disinfected the device for safe subsequent use in multiple endoscopic patients, and fraudulently marketed the scopes, as a result of which plaintiff suffered injuries.  The file shows that on November 15, 2021, the court of appeal filed its Remittitur in this matter, affirming the trial court judgment in favor of defendant CSJ Providence St. Joseph Medical Center based on the granting of the Hospital’s motion for summary judgment.  ANALYSIS:Motion to Clarify or Reopen Discovery Defendants Olympus America, Inc. (Olympus) and Drs. Kasher and Kao have filed a joint motion requesting the court to clarify its ruling at the September 15, 2023 hearing concerning compelling the further deposition of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi.  Defendants attach a transcript of the hearing, in which it appears to be conceded that the discovery cut-off to bring a discovery motion, and other cut-offs would ordinarily be measured from the July 17, 2023 trial date, which has since been continued.   Plaintiff’s counsel argued that all motions by all parties were timely, as well as the requested discovery, for consistency in the ruling. [Hoffman Decl., para. 3; Transcript, p. 6].  Moving defendants have not agreed that all of discovery has remained open but have argued in connection with the discovery disputes that while the pursuit of completion of the deposition of Dr. Gazi is not barred by the discovery cut-off, all other discovery has since been cut-off, and cannot be pursued without a court order to reopen discovery.  Defendants appear to seek clarification of the following comment by the court at the September 15, 2023 hearing:“THE COURT'S RULING THAT BOTH SIDES NEED TO MAKE A MOTION RELATED TO THE DISCOVERY CUT-OFF DATE IS JUST TO NOT BE A GAP IN THE RECORD; THAT LATER ON, SOMEONE SAYS, OH, JUDGE ALLOWED FOR ADDITIONAL DISCOVERY AND DID ALL THIS WORK. AND ALL OF THAT STUFF CAME INTO THE TRIAL, AND NOW SHOULD BE EXCLUDED FROM THE TRIAL. SO 20 PERCENT OF THE TRIAL WAS EXCLUDED BECAUSE THE JUDGE DID NOT DO THE TECHNICALLY RIGHT THING ABOUT GRANTING THE ORDER CONTINUING THE DISCOVERY CUT-OFF AND FOR MOTIONS WHEN THE PARTIES WERE NOT AGREEING TO THAT.  NORMALLY, WHEN I CONTINUE A TRIAL, I NORMALLY CONTINUE ALL THE CUT-OFF DATES.”[Transcript, p. 7].  The court had at the hearing noted the possible gap in any continuance of the discovery cut off dates, and ordered:“WITH REGARD TO THE ISSUE OF WHETHER THERE HAS BEEN AN EXTENSION OF DISCOVERY, THE COURT HAS DISCRETION AND CAN EXTEND DISCOVERY ONCE A TRIAL DATE IS CONTINUED. AND SINCE THE PARTIES DON'T SEEM TO AGREE ON THAT, THEN EACH PARTY WOULD MAKE A MOTION TO CONTINUE DISCOVERY, ALSO SET FOR SEPTEMBER 29.  THE DEFENSE, OLYMPUS, IS SAYING: WE CAN GO ON WITH DISCOVERY DEFINITELY BECAUSE IT'S EXPERT DISCOVERY.  AND OLYMPUS IS ALSO SAYING THE PLAINTIFF CANNOT GO ON WITH THE MERITS DISCOVERY BECAUSE THE DISCOVERY CUT-OFF HAS PASSED, AND IT WASN'T RENEWED WHEN THE TRIAL DATE WAS SUSPENDED. SO TO CLARIFY THAT, EACH PARTY WILL BRING THEIR OWN MOTION ON SEPTEMBER 29 -- THE SAME BRIEFING SCHEDULE I JUST INDICATED. SO MR. LINDEMANN WOULD BRING A MOTION SAYING: YOUR HONOR, I'M ASKING YOU TO EXTEND THE DISCOVERY CUT-OFF SO I CAN HAVE MY MOTIONS TO COMPEL HEARD FOR THE PMKS SET FOR SEPTEMBER 29. AND SIMILARLY, THE DEFENDANT, OLYMPUS, WILL BRING A MOTION SAYING: I'M ENTITLED TO CONTINUE EXPERT WITNESS DISCOVERY. ALL RIGHT?[Transcript, pp. 3-4].  The court permitted such motions to be brought for hearing this date, pursuant to “the same briefing schedule I just indicated.” That briefing schedule was:“IF THE PLAINTIFF WANTS TO FILE A NOTICED MOTION, THAT MOTION MUST BE FILED BY SEPTEMBER 20, BY 12:00 NOON SO WE GET COPIES OF THAT BECAUSE THAT PUTS IT ON A TIGHT CALENDAR, AND SOMETIMES PEOPLE WAIT ON ELECTRONIC FILINGS TO FILE SOMETHING AT 11:59 P.M. AND NOBODY CAN LOOK AT IT UNTIL THE NEXT DAY, SO WE LOSE A WHOLE DAY TO LOOK AT IT.  THE OPPOSITION WOULD BE FILED ON SEPTEMBER 25TH BY 12:00 NOON, AND THE HEARING DATE WOULD BE SET FOR SEPTEMBER 29 WHEN WE HAVE MANY OTHER MATTERS ON CALENDAR.  THE REPLY WOULD BE DUE SEPTEMBER 27 BY 12:00 NOON.” Defendants have brought this joint motion within the time permitted by the court for the hearing on September 29.  The moving papers first argue that there is no need to reopen discovery in order for defendants to complete the much delayed deposition of Dr. Gazi, arguing that the court has already repeatedly ordered, on at least four occasions, that defendants could complete Dr. Gazi’s deposition after the close of expert discovery, and that these orders make clear that the court has already granted leave to take this deposition after the close of discovery.   However, defendants point to no court orders acknowledging that the discovery cut-off had passed, and no court orders which make appropriate findings concerning the reopening of discovery after the deadlines had passed.  In fact, defendants have insisted in opposition to plaintiff’s discovery motions that the continuance of a trial date does not automatically continue the discovery cut off dates, and that plaintiff needs to make appropriate showings to support court findings continuing such dates. Under CCP § 2024.020:“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.”Section 2024.050 provides a procedure for a party to bring a noticed motion for leave to complete discovery or have a discovery motion heard closer to the initial trial date or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.   This motion requires a meet and confer, and that the court take into consideration certain specified factors.  Defendants’ expert discovery is subject to CCP § 2024.030, which provides:“Any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings pertaining to a witness identified under Chapter 18 (commencing with Section 2034.010) on or before the 15th day, and to have motions concerning that discovery heard on or before the 10th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.” The parties do not trace for the court when the action was initially set for trial but appear to agree that the trial date in this matter was most recently set for June 10, 2023 and then July 17, 2023, and that there is no formal order by the court continuing the discovery cut off dates, so that the motion to compel the deposition of Dr. Gazi, heard on September 15, 2023, must have been filed at the latest on or before July 7, 2023, ten days before the July date set for trial.   The Olympus motion was filed on July 24, 2023, and the Dr. Kasher and Kao motion and filed on August 11, 2023, for hearing dates of October 13, 2023, and October 27, 2023 respectively, which were ultimately specially set for September 15, 2023, after the July 7, 2023 deadline had expired. Defendants vaguely refer to the discovery cut-off having occurred on June 10, 2023, when the trial date was set for July 10, 2023. The parties have made a disappointing showing regarding the state of discovery from the court file.  The court’s file shows that on April 18, 2023, the Jury Trial was scheduled for 07/10/2023, which minute order expressly states, “All related dates and deadlines will be extended in accordance with the new trial date.”  [Minute Order 4/18/2023, p. 2 of 2].  On June 16, 2023, the court denied an ex parte application to continue the hearing on a Motion for Summary Judgment and relief from five-year rule based on plaintiff’s counsel’s request to keep the same trial date.   There is also in the file a minute order dated June 29, 2023, in which the court states, “Pursuant to the request of plaintiff, the Jury Trial scheduled for 07/10/2023 is advanced to this date and continued to 09/11/2023…”  The minute order also states, “All trial deadlines are extended, including discovery deadlines, and shall be governed by the new trial date.”  [Minute Order 06/29/2023, p. 2 of 3].  On July 3, 2023, the court heard an ex parte application for an order to specially set the trial and set the trial date on a date on or before July 21, 2023, which was granted, and the trial date set for July 17, 2023.  [Minute Order 07/03/2023, p. 2 of 2].  There is no mention made of continuing the discovery deadlines in that minute order.  However, the court is of the view that the previous orders continuing the discovery deadlines to coordinate with the new trial dates resulted in no lapse of the discovery cut off dates, particularly when the trial date was advanced to July 17, 2023 from a later September 11, 2023 trial date, so that the discovery deadlines had not lapsed prior to that July 17, 2023 trial date, which has since been vacated.  There accordingly does not appear to be any necessity to reopen discovery which has already been propounded and pursued at this juncture, as the discovery deadlines had been continued by the court.  The court accordingly considers the motion heard on September 15, 2023 to have been made within the discovery deadlines as reflected by the court’s file.  In an abundance of caution, the court will consider defendants’ request in the alternative for an order extending the discovery cut off with respect to the expert deposition of Dr. Gazi to the date of the September 15, 2023 hearing.Under CCP § 2024.050(a), “on motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date...” Under CCP section 2024.050(b), the determination of this motion is in the trial court’s discretion, taking into consideration matters relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, in pertinent part,:“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.”CCP § 2024.050(b). Defendants have argued in opposition to plaintiff’s recent discovery motions, that this procedure must be followed before a discovery motion in violation of the discovery cut off dates can be considered by the court. In Pelton-Shepard Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, the court addressed a situation like the one presented here, where a motion to compel had been brought to be heard beyond fifteen days before the date initially set for trial after the trial date had been continued.  The court of appeal found that the trial court’s decision to consider and grant the untimely motion to compel was an abuse of discretion, analyzing the statutory scheme and reasoning:   “Here, the trial court’s discretion to hear [the] motion to compel was governed by section 2024.020, which provided that (1) the last day for Pelton-Sheperd to have its motion to compel heard as a matter of right was October 31, 2005, and that (2) the postponement of the trial date did not ‘operate to reopen discover proceedings’ ‘except as provided in Section 2024.050'-- that is except upon a successful motion for leave to reopen discovery.  Moreover, under section 2024.050, subdivision(b), the trial court’s discretion to grant such a motion was not unfettered, but could be exercised only upon ‘taking into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to ......the necessity and the reasons for the discovery’ and ‘the diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking ...the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that...the discovery motion was not heard earlier.’” Pelton-Shepard, at 1587-1588 (italics in original).  The court of appeal held that because the trial court had not required the moving party to file a motion for leave under section 2024.050, there was no indication on the record that it had considered the appropriate factors and appropriately exercised its discretion. The court of appeal concluded:“By simply hearing the motion to compel without first deciding whether discovery should be reopened for that purpose under all of the relevant circumstances, the trial court transgressed the confines of the applicable principles of law and thereby abused its discretion.” Pelton-Shepard, at 1588. Here, defendants have now brought this separate motion, and addressed the factors to be considered.  First, with respect to the necessity and reasons for the discovery, defendants have established that they need the deposition of Dr. Gazi because this court explicitly relied on the declarations purportedly signed by Dr. Gazi to deny defendants’ motions for summary judgment on the issue of medical negligence and causation.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 9].    With respect to the diligence of the party seeking the discovery or hearing, defendants have shown that they have been diligent in seeking the discovery, having noticed the deposition prior to the latest date which would have closed expert discovery, and having had to bring multiple motions to compel the deposition when plaintiff repeatedly resisted producing the witness for an in person deposition, based on various representations concerning the whereabouts of the witness, which kept changing, and with which this court is very familiar.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 5-9].  The parties also specially sought from the court dates in advance of those available on the court reservation system to have the hearings take place promptly.   Defendants also argue that the completion of this single deposition will not delay the trial, as Dr. Gazi is solely providing expert testimony that was already owed to defendants based on his expert declarations produced in this case many months ago.   The file also shows that the matter is not yet re-set for trial, as a long-cause application is in the process of being considered.   The motion accordingly is granted, and defendants permitted to have motions heard and conduct Dr. Gazi’s deposition after the expiration of the original discovery cut-off date, and the discovery cut-off date for this discovery will be ordered to be measured from the new trial date, when set.   This results in the court’s order of September 15, 2023 becoming the final order of the court with respect to compelling the resumption of the deposition of Dr. Gazi and his further testimony.   Plaintiff argues that the motion should be denied, as there is nothing to clarify, as the trial date has been vacated, seeming to argue that there is no expert discovery cut-off issue, further confirming that plaintiff will suffer no prejudice if the relief is granted.   Plaintiff also argues that if the court is inclined to enter a schedule, it should set a new trial date and create a fair deadline for discovery and motions which are reciprocal and mutual.   However, plaintiff has been permitted the opportunity to bring a noticed motion to reopen discovery, and make a proper showing under the discovery statutes according to the required factors.  The opposition here does not satisfy the requirements of seeking such relief and makes no showing as to plaintiff’s necessity for discovery or diligence upon which the court could grant relief, which in any case is not properly sought in opposition papers.  Defendants’ motion is granted as set forth above.    Motions to Compel DepositionsProceduralMotions Brought After Discovery Cut-Off  Plaintiff brings two similar motions to compel the deposition of the Person Most Qualified and production of documents, one for defendant Olympus America Inc. (Olympus) and one for third party Olympus Corporation of the Americas.   Defendant Olympus has opposed the motions, first arguing that the motions are untimely, as fact discovery cut-off expired on June 10, 2023, if not earlier, when the trial was set for July 10, 2023.  Defendant bases this argument on the Hoffman Declaration, which states that fact discovery was cut-off on at least June 10, 2023 (evidently 30 days before the July 10, 2023 trial date), without reference to any supporting evidence.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 17].  As discussed in detail above, the July 10, 2023 trial date was continued by a minute order dated June 29, 2023, in which “Pursuant to the request of plaintiff, the Jury Trial scheduled for 07/10/2023 is advanced to this date and continued to 09/11/2023…,”  which minute order expressly states, “All trial deadlines are extended, including discovery deadlines, and shall be governed by the new trial date.”  [Minute Order 06/29/2023, p. 2 of 3].   Defendant has accordingly failed to establish that the discovery cut-off had expired as alleged and not been extended by the direct order of the court.  The motions accordingly are not denied on this ground. Stay Defendant also argues that the motion is improperly brought while this matter is stayed pursuant to CCP section 583.340 (c), in connection with the 5-year deadline.  However, the minute order relied upon is one in which the court did not stay the action, but determined,” that it is impossible, impracticable and futile to bring the case to try as scheduled,” and ordering that time be excluded from the time to bring the case to trial.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 21, 22; Ex. H, Minute Order 07/17/2023, p. 1 of 2].  There is no mention of a stay, and the motions are not denied on this ground. SubstantiveCCP section 2025.450 (a) provides that”:"if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party...  without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice... the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” Under CCP section 2025.230: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event the deponent shall designate and produce at deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”In this case, defendants were served with deposition notices for a deposition of the person most qualified from defendants Olympus America, Inc. and a separate entity, Olympus Corporation of the Americas, on August 2, 2023.  [Lindemann Decl., Exs. 1, 3]. Written objections were served on August 9, 2023.  [Exs. 2, 4].  As an initial matter, defendant Olympus argues that the witness Olympus Corporation of the Americas (OCA) is not a party to this action and has not been served in the action.  Defendant indicates that despite naming OCA as a defendant in the First Amended Complaint, and explaining how he could serve that entity, plaintiff has never actually served that entity.  [Hoffman Decl., paras. 2, 9, Ex. A].  Defendant argues that plaintiff’s moving papers provide no evidence that plaintiff served OCA with a subpoena, and do not suggest that plaintiff validly served OCA with the motion.  Plaintiff in reply argues that OCA was sued by a fictitious name, with the Amendment to Complaint identifying Olympus as “Olympus America, Inc. dba Olympus Corporation of the Americas,” which plaintiff argues was clearly a clerical error, and can be corrected at any time before judgment.  Plaintiff accordingly appears to concede that this entity has not been served with summons and complaint, so the court has no personal jurisdiction over OCA.  Plaintiff also appears to concede that this entity has not been served with a subpoena as required to obtain jurisdiction over a third party for deposition.  See CCP section 2020.010 (“the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a deposition subpoena”).  It also appears that plaintiff has not yet taken any formal action to correct any purported “clerical error.”  The motion as to OCA accordingly is denied. With respect to Olympus, the deposition notice indicates that the matters for examination will be the means and authenticity, identity of persons preparing, and locations of documents and things “identified below.”  The documents include those identified on a privilege log, as well as documents relating to communications with affiliates, or documents created relating to testing data as to the subject scopes, as well as communications with expert witnesses, other defendants, and American Medical Forensics Specialists, among others. With respect to compelling a deposition of a person most qualified, Olympus has argued only briefly that this would be improper, as the notice fails to properly identify the topics to be addressed, however, a review of the notice shows that the topic is the various facts surrounding the documents and things requested, which appears appropriate. Olympus variously argues that the motion is untimely or is actually a motion for reconsideration of a March 10, 2023 order concerning discovery.  The motion appears to be made in conjunction with a deposition notice served on August 2, 2023, well after the March 10, 2023 order.  The opposition does not explain how the current discovery involves the same or duplicative discovery as that addressed by the previous motion.  With respect to timeliness, under CCP section 2025.450 (a), quoted above, there is no time limit in the statute for bringing a motion for failure to appear and bring documents to a deposition.  As argued in the reply, even if the court were to apply a time limit for compelling document production in connection with a motion to compel further answers at a deposition, under CCP§ 2025.480, that time limit would be “60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition.”  Here, the deposition notice was served on August 2, 2023, and this motion served and filed on August 28, 2023, well within sixty days. There also appears to be an objection that the separate statement does not include the deposition topic or objections.  The court has reviewed the deposition topic and objections and finds that no reason has been established to deny the deposition on this ground.  Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling the appearance and testimony of defendant Olympus pursuant to the deposition notice, and the motion is granted. With respect to the documents requested, the separate statement is sufficiently complete.  Request No. 1, requesting documents previously identified in a privilege log, appears to improperly seek documents claimed to be privileged by attorney-client or work product privilege, and the log appears appropriate.  The opposition supports the claims of privilege, and the moving party fails to point to particular document descriptions or arguments by defendant which would overcome the claim of privilege.  [See Privilege Log; Segan Decl., paras. 2-12].  The motion as to this request is denied. The court is also not convinced that Request No. 9, seeking documents in other lawsuits, is sufficiently connected to this action.  [Hoffman Decl., para. 15].  The motion as to this request also is denied.   As to the remaining requests, it appears sufficiently demonstrated by plaintiff that these seek discoverable materials.  The opposition argues that the requests are overly broad, seeking information in some cases spanning more than ten years.  The Court will make limited limitations on the time frame of the document requests, where appropriate.  The Court will also in connection with certain requests limit the requests for communications to those concerning matters involved in this case.  The opposition also appears to sufficiently argue that production of documents relating to the TJF-Q180V duodenoscope would not involve a scope which was used on plaintiff, and that there would be a burden of 100 hours and over $20,000 in data costs to produce this information, so that this information will not be required to be produced.  [See Hoffman Decl., paras. 14, 15].   Sanctions Both sides seek monetary sanctions.  Under CCP section 2025.450 (g)(1) “if a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent..., unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  The motion against OCA is denied, and no sanctions are authorized by statute for successfully opposing such a motion, so no sanctions are awarded.  The motion against Olympus will be granted for the most part.  However, the court will find that Olympus was substantially justified in opposing the motion, particularly given the confusion concerning the status of the discovery cut-off dates and deadlines.   No sanctions are awarded. Motion to Augment Plaintiff has filed a motion seeking to augment his expert witness list to add two experts, Alan Lipschultz and Michael G. Koehler.   Plaintiff indicates that these two witnesses are providing expert testimony in a civil matter against Olympus in the USDC of Georgia, which involves similar contentions that a similar scope led to a vector transmission.  According to the report in that other case submitted by plaintiff here, Dr. Koehler is an expert in chemistry, polymeric materials, and plastics, and consults from a chemistry and materials perspective.  He has Bachelor of Science degrees in Chemistry, Mathematics and Computer Science, and a PhD in Medicinal Chemistry.  He does not appear to be a medical doctor.  Plaintiff has also submitted a deposition transcript from the other case of a deposition of Alan Lipschultz, which evidently does not include testimony concerning the witness’ qualifications to testify as an expert but involves opinions concerning Olympus’ notice of problems with its scopes and its duties which arose with respect to rebutting findings or giving notice.  The testimony includes testimony that the witness is not a medical doctor.  [Lindemann Decl., Ex. B, Lipschultz Depo., p. 19:6-8].Plaintiff argues that there have been odd and extraordinary circumstances surrounding certain designated experts, which may affect the availability of one or mor experts, and that after Dr. Gazi’s deposition, plaintiff’s counsel retained the two experts in August of 2023.  Plaintiff argues that counsel has been diligently working with the experts to finish preparation of expert opinions, and these experts can be made available in advance of trial.  Plaintiff argues that Olympus will not be prejudiced by permitting the augmentation, as Olympus recently deposed the same witnesses in the Georgia case, is aware of their opinions, and the experts have been recently discovered as having offered significant expert testimony on the very issues and related scopes at issue in this case. Relief is sought under CCP § 2034.610, which provides, in pertinent part: “(a) On motion of any party who has engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the court may grant leave to do either or both of the following:(1) Augment that party’s expert witness list and declaration by adding the name and address of any expert witness whom that party has subsequently retained....(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing at Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit.  Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a later time. (c) This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Plaintiff also relies on CCP § 2034.620, which provides: “The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:(a) The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.(b) The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits. (c) The court has determined either of the following:(1) The moving party would not in the exercise of diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer different or additional testimony. (B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.   (d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving   party making the expert available immediately for a deposition ..., and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.”  With respect to expert witness information to be provided, CCP section 2034.260 provides, in pertinent part: “(b) The exchange of expert witness information shall include either of the following: (1) A list setting forth the name and address of a person whose expert opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial. (2) A statement that the party does not presently intend to offer the testimony of an expert witness.(c) If a witness on the list is an expert as described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210, the exchange shall also include or be accompanied by an expert witness declaration signed only by the attorney for the party designating the expert, or by that party if that party has no attorney. This declaration shall be under penalty of perjury and shall contain all of the following: (1) A brief narrative statement of the qualifications of each expert. (2) A brief narrative statement of the general substance of the testimony that the expert is expected to give. (3) A representation that the expert has agreed to testify at the trial. (4) A representation that the expert will be sufficiently familiar with the pending action to submit to a meaningful oral deposition concerning the specific testimony, including an opinion and its basis, that the expert is expected to give at trial. (5) A statement of the expert's hourly and daily fee for providing deposition testimony and for consulting with the retaining attorney.” Plaintiff argues that plaintiff has met all elements to augment the expert list. Plaintiff argues the Olympus has not relied on the original designation, as other expert witnesses currently designated have provided opinions on the scopes at issue in this case, so this is not a new topic of designation.  Plaintiff also argues that Olympus will not be prejudiced, as the new experts are providing opinions in the Georgia federal action concerning very similar scopes, and pro hac vice counsel in this very case has taken their depositions.  Plaintiff also notes that there is no trial date set in this matter, so that there is time to depose the witnesses and prepare, and that all other experts have had their deposition completed.    Plaintiff also seems to argue that plaintiff through reasonable diligence could not have designated these witnesses, as due to the availability and testimony of certain witnesses, as well as the conduct of certain witnesses, it has become necessary to augment to provide testimony of witnesses who have provided more certain analysis and evaluations of the issue of the safety of the scopes.   Plaintiff indicates he has sought leave to augment promptly, within weeks of retaining and providing source materials to the witnesses and agrees to serve a supplemental designation of Alan Lipschultz and Michael G. Koehler by September 18, 2023 or one court day after the motion is heard pursuant to CCP section 2034.620(c).   It does not appear from the file that such a supplemental designation or declaration has yet been filed or served, and no mention is made of it in the reply.  The court will order that a code compliant declaration be served and filed “promptly” under the statute upon the granting of the motion.   Plaintiff seems to argue in the reply that the augmentation is necessary because plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi has engaged in shocking, surprising, and strangely uncooperative behavior, necessitating the augmentation.   The motion cites to Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1471, in which the court of appeal upheld a trial court’s granting of a motion to augment under former CCP section 2034, holding that sufficient surprise was shown where a defendant’s expert gave deposition testimony damaging to defendant.  The court rejected plaintiff’s arguments of prejudice, setting a high standard for showing such prejudice: “We read this statute to evidence a concern with prejudicing the party opposing the motion by adding a new expert for which that party, due to its reliance on the previous list of experts, is not prepared and cannot be prepared in time.  A party is not ‘prejudiced’ simply because the new expert will give testimony adverse to the party.Dickison at 1479.   The opposition argues that permitting augmentation now would violate the five-year rule, but as discussed above, the matter is currently in a posture not where the matter is stayed, but where the court has made a finding concerning the current ability to bring the case to trial given the delay in obtaining a long-cause determination.   The opposition also argues that the motion should be denied because the court has previously denied a request by plaintiff to augment his expert witness list.  Defendants rely on the transcript from an ex parte application, in which the court denied an ex parte application to augment, which defendants concede related to the addition of a completely different expert and was made on an ex parte basis.  [See Hoffman Decl., Ex. 1, p. 5:16-19].As argued in the reply, that ruling does not foreclose the court considering or granting a new noticed motion to augment to add different expert witnesses on specific statutory grounds, based on more recent events in the action. The opposition also argues that plaintiff has failed to successfully move to reopen discovery.   As discussed above, it is disappointing that plaintiff has not filed a motion to ensure that discovery will be viewed as remaining open, but this court in reviewing the file has determined that it has ordered the discovery deadlines measured from the most recent trial date, and with the trial dates having been vacated pending the long cause determination, is prepared to view the court’s orders as extending the cut off to correspond to the new trial, when set.  The court will also consider entering an order retroactively determining that expert discovery remains open with all deadlines to be measured from the new trial date, when set. The motion is not denied on the basis that the discovery cut-off has expired or that the motion does not fall within the time limitations of CCP section 2034.610.  On the merits of the motion, the opposition argues that plaintiff does not satisfy the requirements of CCP section 2034.620, as Olympus has significantly relied on plaintiff’s expert witness list since it was disclosed over three months ago and did not designate supplemental experts since Olympus’ designated experts already covered the topics listed in the original witness list.  If the augmentation should provide a circumstance where supplemental experts are necessary, this can be easily permitted by the court, particularly given the lack of a current trial date.  The opposition seems to argue that the new experts will inject new issues into this case regarding materials such as polymers, plastics, and coating, the expertise of Koehler, which issues have never been raised before.  However, the issues are directed to the safety of the subject scopes, and plaintiff indicates the opinions will concern that issue, which has long been the heart of plaintiff’s claims against defendant Olympus.  Moreover, any variation in the details of the analysis could be addressed by defendants’ designation of supplemental experts.    The opposition also argues that the motion must be denied because defendants would suffer extreme prejudice, arguing that the trial of this case should have concluded in July of 2023, and there is no time to derail this case for further expert depositions, or for Olympus to obtain rebuttal experts.   Plaintiff has cited case law in which it has been suggested that where the augmentation is limited with respect to witnesses and a limited subject matter, such a motion may be granted even during trial, as the expert’s testimony can be taken after court hours to avoid disrupting the trial proceedings.   See Kennemur v. State of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907, 920.   As noted above, the court in Dickison held that the opposing party is not “prejudiced” simply because the new expert will give testimony adverse to the party; the focus should be on the opposing party’s ability to respond to the new testimony.  Dickison, at 1479-1480.  Again, the statute requires a finding that “any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  (Emphasis added).     It accordingly appears under the statute and its interpretation that unless defendant can argue that the delay here has rendered it such that defendant cannot respond to the new testimony, such as that evidence has been lost or destroyed, or that this request is only a tactical decision amounting to bad faith by plaintiff, the motion should be granted.   See Kennemur, at 920.  Defendant has made no such showing. Moreover, the circumstance of Dr. Gazi’s conduct in connection with scheduling and appearing at his deposition has contributed to the situation, which has recently escalated, and which defendants have been closely following and pursuing, further strengthening plaintiff’s arguments concerning diligence and potential surprise which can at this juncture be addressed to avoid the risk of any prejudice to defendants in maintaining their defense on the merits.   The motion accordingly is granted. The Court will hear argument concerning the submission of the required declaration, the scheduling of depositions on dates certain, and orders permitting defendants a period within which to designate counter-experts, if necessary.   RULING:Defendants’ Joint Motion for Court to Clarify its September 15, 2023 Comments Regarding the Discovery Cutoff or, in the Alternative, to Reopen Discovery to Allow Completion of Only the Deposition of Plaintiff’s Expert Tawhid Gazi, M.DMotion to Reopen Discovery to Allow Completion of the Deposition of Plaintiff’s Expert Tawhid Gazi, M.D. is GRANTED.  The Court finds that a review of the Court’s file show that the relevant trial continuances were accompanied by language in the Court’s minute orders continuing the discovery deadlines to be measured from the new trial dates, so that the subject discovery remained open during the time it was being pursued.  The Court further finds that even if there is some confusion concerning the discovery deadlines, that defendants sufficiently have established that the subject discovery, the deposition of Dr. Gazi, is necessary expert deposition discovery, that defendants have been diligent in seeking the deposition, and that permitting the discovery will not prevent the case from going to trial on the date which has not yet been set.   The Court permits expert deposition discovery of Dr. Gazi to be conducted and heard in this matter after the purported expiration of the discovery cut-off.   The discovery cut-off on the deposition of Dr. Gazi will be measured from the new trial date, which has not yet been set.   The Court’s order of September 15, 2023 becomes the final order of the Court, and the deposition of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Gazi is ordered to be conducted on or before September 29, 2023.  If the deposition has not been conducted or is not scheduled to be so conducted, the deposition is ordered to be conducted on or before October 13, 2023. Motion to Compel Deposition of the Person Most Qualified for Olympus America, Inc. and Production of DocumentsMotion is GRANTED.  Defendant Olympus of America, Inc. is ordered to designate and produce witness(es) to appear for deposition and to give testimony on a mutually convenient date and time, as to the matters requested in the Notice of Taking Deposition of Person Most Qualified for Olympus America, Inc. served on August 2, 2023, no later than October 13, 2023.The deponent is ordered to bring to the deposition documents responsive to Requests Nos. 2 through 5, limited to the time period of five years prior to the subject incident, in 2011, to the present, and limited to scopes other than the TJF-Q180V.  The deponent is also ordered to bring to the deposition documents responsive to Requests Nos. 7 and 8 which consist of communications relating to this action and made since the action was commenced. The deponent is also ordered to bring to the deposition documents responsive to Requests Nos. 6 and 10.  Motion as to Requests Nos. 1 and 9 is DENIED. Monetary sanctions sought by both sides are DENIED. Motion to Compel Deposition of the Person Most Qualified for Olympus Corporation of the Americas, and Production of DocumentsMotion is DENIED.  The entity Olympus Corporation of the Americas is not a party to this action, has not been served with the summons and complaint, and has not been served with a valid deposition subpoena.  The Court has no jurisdiction to grant any relief against this party. Monetary sanctions sought by both sides are DENIED. Plaintiff’s Motion to Augment List of Designated Experts Motion is GRANTED. Pursuant to CCP § 2034.620, the Court has taken into account the extent to which defendants have relied on the original expert witness list and determined that defendants will not be prejudiced in maintaining defendants’ defenses on the merits.  The Court determines that the moving party would not in the exercise of diligence have determined to call the subject expert witnesses previous to recent events concerning its current expert witness, or, in the alternative, failed to previously call the experts due to plaintiff’s surprise, and also finds that moving party has promptly sought leave to augment after deciding to call the expert witnesses.  Plaintiff is ordered to promptly serve the proposed expert witness information and declaration required under CCP section 2034.260 (b) and (c) by no later than October 13, 2023.   The witnesses are to be made immediately available for deposition. Expert Designations on October 13, 2023Counter-Designations due on October 27, 2023. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 