 Case Number:  23GDCV00504    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:      7 Date:          9/29/2023  Case No:      23 GDCV00504 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Verdugo Vista Operating Company, LP v. Amantullah DISCOVERY MOTIONS (2) Moving Party:  Plaintiff Verdugo Vista Operating Company, LP   Responding Party: Defendant Farouk Amanatullah (No Opposition)  RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One Order deeming Requests for Admissions admitted CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served:     June 16, 2023, personal Extension to Respond to: August 10, 2023 (Ex. B) Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED Date Motion served:     August 15, 2023    Timely OPPOSITION:  No oppositionANALYSIS:Procedural  Plaintiff has filed two motions, one to compel responses to two sets of interrogatories, and one for an order deeming requests for admissions admitted. The motion to compel responses to interrogatories seeks to compel responses to Form Interrogatories and to a set of Special Interrogatories.  This motion should have been brought as two separate motions, with two separate reservations for motions of this nature, to avoid calendar congestion and jumping ahead of other discovery motions, and with two separate filing fees paid.  The Court orders that an additional filing fee of $60 be paid for the second motion concerning interrogatories to be considered this date. SubstantiveInterrogatoriesUnder CCP § 2030.290, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any legal right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  In this case, interrogatories have been directed to responding party and responding party has failed to serve timely responses.  Propounding party has appropriately moved for orders to compel responses.  Accordingly, responding party has waived the option to produce writings, as well as all objections, and is ordered to respond.  Requests for Admissions Under CCP § 2033.280, a party who fails to serve a timely response to requests for admissions “waives any objection to the requests.”   In addition, the requesting party may move for an order that “the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction....”   CCP Section 2033.280(b).   The code specifies that “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admissions have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the request for admissions that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.”  CCP section 2033.280(c).   In this case, requests for admissions were personally served on responding party on June 16, 2023.  Despite being permitted an extension of time to respond, responding party has failed to serve timely responses, and has therefore waived all objections.  Propounding party has filed a noticed motion requesting an order that the requests be deemed admitted as truth.  Unless satisfactory responses are served before the hearing, the court must grant the motion.SanctionsWith respect to Requests for Admissions, CCP § 2033.280(c) provides: “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admissions necessitated this motion.”With respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP § 2023.030(a).  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, responding party has failed to respond to authorized methods of discovery and propounding party has submitted evidence that it has incurred expenses as a result of the conduct. Since the motions are unopposed, there is no evidence that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust.  Plaintiff requests $897.50 plus a $60.00 filing fee for each of two motions, which does not appear unreasonable, and defendant has not challenged the time or billing rate sought.  The sanctions are awarded as requested. RULING:[No opposition]Plaintiff’s motion to Compel Responses to Interrogatories: The Motion Reservation was for one motion:  a single motion to compel responses to discovery.  Contrary to this reservation, plaintiff has combined two motions into one (1) a motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories—General (Set No One), and (2) a motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.   Two separate hearing dates should have been reserved for these two motions to compel. In the future, plaintiff is ordered to obtain separate hearing reservations and pay separate filing fees. Combining multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect. The Court will proceed to consider both motions this date, as qualified below.Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.  Defendant Farouk Amanatullah is ordered to serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories—General, Set No. One, without objection, within ten days. Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.  Defendant Farouk Amanatullah is ordered to serve verified responses to Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, to Farouk Amanatullah, without objection, within ten days. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $897.50 (2.5 hours @ $335/hour) [2.5 hours requested] plus $60.00 filing fee [Amount Requested $897.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Verdugo Vista Operating Company, LP and against defendant Farouk Amanatullah, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1348(a). The Court notes it has exercised its discretion to hear two motions, but this order will not become effective until moving party pays an additional $60.00 in filing fees.Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order That Matters be Deemed Admitted is GRANTED.  Defendant Farouk Amanatullah has failed to serve timely responses substantially complying with the provisions of CCP § 2033.220 prior to the hearing on this motion.  The Court therefore orders that all matters specified in Request for Admissions, Set One, to Farouk Amanatullah, are deemed admitted as true, pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b) and (c).  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $897.50 (2.5 hours @ $335/hour) [2.5 hours requested] plus $60.00 filing fee [Amount Requested $897.50], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Verdugo Vista Operating Company, LP and against defendant Farouk Amanatullah, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2033.280 (c), 2023.010(d), and 2023.030(a), and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 