 Case Number:  23GDCV01135    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     9 Date:           9/29/2023   Case No: 23 GDCV01135  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: De La Torre v. Robbins DEMURRER  Moving Party:             Defendant Peter K. Robbins       Responding Party: Plaintiff Tabitha De La Torre     RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to Complaint   CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Breach of Contract  2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 3) Conversion SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Tabitha De La Torre alleges that in 1991 plaintiff joined defendant Peter K. Robbins as a 50/50 partner in an advertising and branding agency, which came to be known as Bird Design, Inc. (Bird).   By 1998, the company had become profitable enough that the parties decided to invest in commercial real estate, and created a new company for the new enterprise, Lucas King, LLC (Lucas King).  Plaintiff alleges that she did not set up a separate Lucas King email accounts, but used her Bird email accounts for communications relating to either company.In 2017, Bird was dissolved pursuant to a Dissolution Agreement, which provided that all Bird creative and infrastructural data (Shared Assets) were assigned to and jointly owned by plaintiff and defendant, to be managed and stored by defendant and made available to plaintiff upon request, with defendant to provide plaintiff with prior written notification of any planned change in status or location of the Shared Assets. In 2018, defendant began urging plaintiff to sell the property held by Lucas King, but plaintiff did not desire to sell, but spoke of a buy-out. The parties could not agree on a price, and on June 2, 2020, defendant and the another interested party filed a lawsuit against plaintiff and Lucas King in Los Angeles Superior Court, which is currently pending as Case No. 20 STCV 20770.  That lawsuit alleges that plaintiff De La Torre, as the sole manager of Lucas King, had abused her authority, looting the company for her own benefit, and stole hundreds of thousands of dollars. The complaint alleges that on June 7, 2020, a couple of days after plaintiff was served with the Lucas King lawsuit, plaintiff suddenly lost access to her Bird email accounts.  Plaintiff alleges that these were her primary email accounts, containing the vast majority of her communications with defendant relating to Lucas King, and contained all the emails plaintiff would need to counter plaintiff’s allegations in the Lucas King lawsuit.   Plaintiff assumed her loss of access was some kind of error, and immediately contacted Google, the host of the accounts, but was never able to regain access.   Plaintiff alleges that without access to her emails, refuting the Lucas King lawsuit turned into a nightmare, as plaintiff was forced to spend extra time and attorney’s fees to litigate her defense while attempting to recreate evidence to show that defendant’s claims against her were unfounded.   This situation resulted in plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment being denied when the court found triable issues regarding a certain transaction that was undetailed and unsubstantiated by other written records, records that likely existed in plaintiff’s emails.  In November of 2021, plaintiff received interrogatory responses in the Lucas King lawsuit which revealed for the first time that it was defendant Robbins who removed plaintiff’s access to her emails, and plaintiff realized that her long-time business partner had surreptitiously locked her out of her email accounts so she could not access the emails she would need to defend herself against his lawsuit.  Plaintiff demanded that defendant return control of her email account, but defendant refused, and instead sent a purportedly complete copy of her email accounts, which plaintiff alleges is insufficient.  Plaintiff alleges that she will need access to her individual Bird email accounts as well as the overall administration account, to determine whether defendant deleted or altered emails critical to her defense. The complaint alleges that this conduct breached the Bird Dissolution Agreement, as well as the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and constitutes conversion of plaintiff’s email accounts. The file shows that on August 18, 2023, defendant filed a Notice of Related Case, indicating that this case is related to LASC Case No. 20 STCV20770, Fleming, et al. v. De La Torre, et al., an unlimited civil case pending in Department 40, which the Notice indicates involves the same parties and is based on the same or similar claims.  On August 23, 2023, a Notice of Related Case was filed in the other case.   ANALYSIS:The Court notes that the pending demurrer is brought pursuant to CCP section CCP § 430.10 (c), which permits a party against whom a complaint has been filed to object by demurrer to the pleading on the ground, “(c) There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.”    The Court further notes that defendant in this matter has filed a Notice of Related Case, and plaintiff in this matter, Tabitha De La Torre, as defendant in the other matter, has filed a Notice of Related Case in the other matter.  The other matter, LASC Case No. 20 STCV20770, was filed on June 2, 2020.  This matter was filed on June 2, 2023.   The other matter is the earlier filed case, so the related case determination is to be made by the court in the other matter pursuant to CRC Rule 3.300(h)(1)(A):“Where all the cases listed in the notice are unlimited civil cases,…the judge who has the earliest filed case must determine whether the cases should be ordered related and assigned to his or her department.”  The demurrer in this matter will accordingly be continued to permit the parties to seek and obtain a related case determination in the other matter, LASC Case No. 20 STCV20770, now pending in Department 40. RULING:Demurrer of Defendant Peter K. Robbins to Complaint is CONTINUED to October 27, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. [30 days] to permit the parties to obtain a related case determination in the matter LASC Case No. 20STCV20779, currently pending in Department 40.   The parties are ordered to seek a related case determination in the other matter, and file and serve a notice in this matter concerning the status of the related case determination no later than nine court days prior to the continued hearing on the demurrer.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative.  