  Case Number:  21STCV11395    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  4 Date: 9/29/2023 Case No:  21 STCV11395 Trial Date: Dec.  18, 2023  Case Name: Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., et al. v. A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc., et al. MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES (2)Moving Party:  Defendant A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc.   Responding Party: Plaintiff Shushanik Devine  Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. (No Oppositions)      RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One), Interrogatories Nos. 1, 4, and 19, from each plaintiff  FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. and Shushanik Devine allege that they were in possession of premises in Glendale and that defendants A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc. and National Community Renaissance of California, while conducting construction work installing a new fire sprinkler system and plumbing at property directly behind the subject premises, were negligent, causing a major water overflow from the property which caused flooding throughout plaintiffs’ entire premises, as a result of which plaintiffs sustained significant property damage and loss of earnings. The complaint alleges that defendants were responsible for three major water flows and flooding, in December of 2018, February of 2019 and March of 2019.   The form complaint alleges a cause of action for general negligence. The file shows that on March 3, 2023, the court heard two motions brought by the moving party defendant A & D, to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) from each of the plaintiffs.  The motions were granted, and plaintiffs were each ordered to serve further responses within ten days.  The court awarded monetary sanctions in favor of defendant and against each plaintiff in the sum of $2,060.  ANALYSIS: Defendant A & D brings these two motions, arguing that plaintiffs have served further responses to the subject discovery, but that the further responses to three of the interrogatories, Interrogatories Nos. 1, 4 and 19 by each plaintiff are insufficient and do not comply with the court’s previous order.   There have been no timely oppositions filed to these motions, and defendant has filed a Reply indicating that no timely oppositions have been served. Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The section specifically provides that “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery may be obtained “of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”Under CCP § 2030.300:“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.”  If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to discovery.  Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.  The granting or denial of a motion to compel is in the discretion of the trial court.  Coy, at 221-222.   A court should generally consider the following factors:The relationship of the information sought to the issues framed in the pleadings;The likelihood that disclosure will be of practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;The burden or expense likely to be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.Columbia Broadcast System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19. Defendant A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc. has brought two virtually identical motions to obtain further responses to three special interrogatories from each plaintiff.    Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 4Special Interrogatory No. 1 requests, “State all facts in support of YOUR cause of action for negligence against propounding party.”   Special Interrogatory No. 4 seeks, “State all facts in support of YOUR claim that the alleged water intrusion at YOUR PROPERTY was the result of any action or inaction by PROPOUNDING PARTY or is agents.”   The court previously ordered plaintiffs to “serve further complete responses to these interrogatories without objections,” and all objections were overruled.  The minute order states:“Further responses must provide all information requested in that interrogatory, and fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.” The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220: “(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits. (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. (c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” The Court has reviewed the objections asserted and finds that plaintiff in the opposition has failed to justify them, and that they are without merit, and all objections are OVERRULED….The Court does not find acceptable a response that discovery is continuing or that plaintiff will supplement its response, given the duty imposed by CCP section 2030.220 to make reasonable inquiry before responding to an interrogatory.” The further responses to these interrogatories are now made without objections, and both state:“On or about December 6, 2018, Plaintiffs, NEURO DIAGNOSTIC CENTER, INC. and SHUSANIK DEVINE were in possession of the subject premises located at 1110 Sonora Ave., Unit 105, Glendale, CA 91205. At the previously alleged time and place, Defendants, A & D FIRE SPRINKLERS, INC. and NATIONAL COMMUNITY RENAISSANCE OF CALIFORNIA operated, maintained, controlled, owned, repaired, renovated, managed and/or conducted construction work on the property located at 1116 Sonora Ave., Glendale, CA 91205 which was the property directly behind the subject premises. At the previously alleged time and place, Defendants were conducting construction work installing new fire sprinkler systems at the property located at 1116 Sonora Ave., Glendale, CA 91205. As a result of Defendants and each of their negligence, a major water overflow from 1116 Sonora Ave. caused Plaintiffs entire unit to be flooded. Defendants' failure to exercise ordinary care while conducting construction work at, around or near the subject premises caused water to enter Plaintiffs unit causing Plaintiff to incur property damage including but not limited to her nerve conduction machines, office furniture, electronic devices, etc. Furthermore, following the first major waterflow into Plaintiffs unit, the subject premises was flooded on two other occasions one in February of 2019 and another in March of 2019 as a result of Defendant negligently, carelessly, and recklessly conducting proper construction work at the construction site allowing the water to flow into Plaintiff unit causing further property damage. As a result of the multiple water flows, Plaintiffs business become inoperable for 6 months which caused Plaintiff to not only lose business but to also lose income throughout the years. Defendant A & D Fire Sprinklers failed to properly train, supervise, employ, manage and/or control its agents, employees and workers to properly conduct construction work on the premises in order to avoid any water from flowing outside the construction site and into the adjacent property as it did in the instant matter. Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiffs to take reasonable steps to adequately maintain, manage, control, operate, repair and conduct construction work on the property. Discovery is ongoing and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement her response to this request upon new and admissible information.” The responses clearly do not comply with the court’s previous order to the extent they include the language that, “Discovery is ongoing, and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement her responses to this request upon new and admissible information,” as the court expressly ordered that this was not an acceptable response.  Further responses which do not include this language will be ordered to be served.  Defendants argue that the responses do not provide facts in support of plaintiff’s claims, but provide a series of legal conclusions, include no new facts implicating either of the propounding defendants in the alleged claims, and simply switch around the order of the prior sentences responding to the interrogatories.  The responses do consist primarily of repeating the allegations of the pleading, without the types of factual details which would be expected to be within plaintiff’s knowledge based on a reasonable investigation and inquiry at this point in the litigation.  The responses are not directed specifically to the conduct being alleged to have been engaged in by propounding party by each plaintiff. Further responses which provide all facts which support the conclusory statement are ordered to be served, without any qualifying language, and if plaintiff has no further facts, plaintiff will be bound by that admission, and be prohibited from presenting any facts not disclosed in discovery at the time of trial.   Special Interrogatory No. 19 Special Interrogatory No. 19 asks:“If YOU contend YOU suffered a loss of income, please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR loss of income claim.  (As used in these interrogatories, the term ‘IDENTIFY,’ as to a DOCUMENT means to state the author, recipient, date and general description of the DOCUMENT.)”   The court’s previous minute order also overruled all objections, including the same language set forth above in connection with Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 4, and also stated:“Further response to Special Interrogatory No. 19 shall not refer the propounding party to documents included in other discovery but will identify each specific document which supports plaintiff’s specific contentions.”  [Minute Order 3/3/2023, p. 12 of 13].  The supplemental response is now:“Plaintiff identifies her financial bank statements from Bank of America from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019; January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020 and January 1 -December 31, 2021.” The Court has already found that there is no question that this interrogatory seeks information directly relevant to plaintiffs’ loss of income claim in this action.  Defendants argue that the supplemental responses, which only point to Bank of America checking account bank statements hardly show plaintiff’s loss of income, as plaintiff has failed to produce any business ledger, tax documents, invoices, accounts payable and accounts receivable records or profit/loss statements.   Defendants indicate that the documents identified are essentially only account summaries showing deposits or other credits, and withdrawals and other debits, without further specificity. This response does appear to be an incomplete response, and plaintiff is ordered one final time to provide a further verified response which identifies all responsive documents, so that if plaintiff seeks to introduce other documents at trial, there will be a clear record as to what was not identified in discovery.   Sanctions This leaves the issue of sanctions.   With respect to interrogatories, CCP § 2030.300 (d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(f) Making an evasive response to discovery,” and “(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.”    Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  Here, the responses served include evasive responses, and continue to include language in disobedience of the court’s prior order.  There are no oppositions here, so plaintiffs have failed to show that these shortcomings were substantially justified. Further monetary sanctions are awarded.  The sanctions sought in each notice of motion, and supported by the declarations are $3,220.  The declarations confusingly contain language which states, “Accordingly, [propounding party] will incur $3,220 on legal fees and costs for this motion, such that I request that Plaintiff only be sanctions in the amount of $2,560.”  [Kelleher Decl., paras. 35]. The Court accordingly limits the monetary sanctions to $2,560 for each motion, which appear reasonable.  Plaintiffs have failed to oppose the motions, so have not challenged the reasonableness of the fees and costs incurred. The motions also briefly seek that the court impose issue, evidence or terminating sanctions against plaintiff.  Under CCP § 2030.300(e):  “If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, and evidence sanction or a terminating sanction…”    Plaintiffs here did not fully comply with the court’s order, but did in fact serve further responses without objections, and defendant here has properly sought further responses which more fully comply with that court order, for which defendant’s efforts will be reimbursed with further monetary sanctions.  To the extent defendant argues that plaintiffs have disobeyed the court’s previous order by failing to timely pay the previously awarded monetary sanctions, as noted above, under section 2023.010, “misuse of the discovery process” includes “(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.”  (emphasis added).  It has long been the rule that a trial court may not issue a terminating sanction based solely on the failure to pay a monetary sanction ordered in connection with a discovery motion.   The Second District in Newland v Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608 reversed a trial court’s entry of default after striking an answer for a party’s failure to timely pay discovery sanctions, clearly holding “a terminating sanction issued solely because of the failure to pay a monetary sanction is never justified.”  Newland, at 615.      The Second District noted that such a sanction is not appropriately designed to encourage compliance with discovery obligations, raising questions of due process, and also observed that further punishment for failure to pay sanctions is unnecessary, observing: “Nor is a terminating sanction necessary in order to enforce a monetary order. Weil and Brown observe that many attorneys seem to be unaware that monetary sanction orders are enforceable through the execution of judgment laws. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial 3 (The Rutter Group 1994) PP 9:344.21, 9:344.22, p. 9(1)-92.) These orders have the force and effect of a money judgment, and are immediately enforceable through execution, except to the extent the trial court may order a stay of the sanction. (See § 680.230,  680.270, 699.510, subd. (a); Jones v. Otero, supra, 156 Cal. App. 3d at p. 759.) Unawareness of this remedy may explain why terminating sanctions are often sought when monetary sanctions are unpaid.”Newland, at 615.   The request for issue, evidence or terminating sanctions accordingly is denied at this juncture, and only further monetary sanctions are awarded.  RULING:[No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Additional Further Supplemental Responses from Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. as to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 1, 4, and 19 is GRANTED. Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. is ordered to serve further verified responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 4, and 19, which fully comply with the Court’s previous order of March 3, 2023.  The further responses must provide all information requested in those interrogatories, and fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The Court notes that all objections have been overruled, so that any further responses will continue to be made without objections. With respect to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 4, the responses must include all facts which support plaintiff’s contentions, and all facts which support the conclusions set forth in the most recent responses, and must be directed at the conduct which plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. is alleging to have been engaged in by moving defendant, A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc.  Again, the Court does not find acceptable a response that discovery is continuing or that plaintiff will supplement its response, given the duty imposed by CCP section 2030.220 to make reasonable inquiry before responding to an interrogatory.  Further responses must not include the language, “Discovery is ongoing, and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement her response to this request upon new and admissible information,” or any similar language.   Further response to Special Interrogatory No. 19 shall clearly identify all documents which support plaintiff’s loss of earnings claims, beyond the very summary bank account documents identified, so that documents not identified in response to the discovery can be properly excluded from introduction at trial.     Further verified responses to be served within ten days. Further monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,560.00 (12.8 hours @ $200/hour) (15.8 hours requested ), plus filing fees in the sum of $60 [Amount Requested $3,220/declaration limits to $2,560], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc. and against plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2030.300(c), 2023.010 (e), (f), (g) and 2023.030(a); CRC Rule 3.1348.Issue, Evidence, or Terminating Sanctions requested are DENIED. UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Additional Further Supplemental Responses from Plaintiff Shushanik Devine as to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 1, 4, and 19 is GRANTED. Plaintiff Shushanik Devine is ordered to serve further verified responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 4, and 19, without objection. which fully comply with the Court’s previous order of March 3, 2023.  The further responses must provide all information requested in those interrogatories, and fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The Court notes that all objections have been overruled, so that any further responses will continue to be made without objections. With respect to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 4, the responses must include all facts which support plaintiff’s contentions, and all facts which support the conclusions set forth in the most recent responses, and must be directed at the conduct which plaintiff Shushanik Devine is alleging to have been engaged in by moving defendant, A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc.  Again, the Court does not find acceptable a response that discovery is continuing or that plaintiff will supplement her response, given the duty imposed by CCP section 2030.220 to make reasonable inquiry before responding to an interrogatory.  Further responses must not include the language, “Discovery is ongoing, and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement her response to this request upon new and admissible information,” or any similar language.   Further response to Special Interrogatory No. 19 shall clearly identify all documents which support plaintiff’s loss of earnings claims, beyond the very summary bank account documents identified, so that documents not identified in response to the discovery can be properly excluded from introduction at trial.     Further verified responses to be served within ten days. Further monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,560.00 (12.8 hours @ $200/hour) (15.8 hours requested ), plus filing fees in the sum of $60 [Amount Requested $3,220/declaration limits to $2,560], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc. and against plaintiff Shushanik Devine, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2030.300(c), 2023.010 (e), (f), (g) and 2023.030(a); CRC Rule 3.1348.Issue, Evidence, or Terminating Sanctions requested are DENIED.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect/Microsoft Teams, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 