Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV06351
Plaintiff's Name: Jane FA Doe
Defendant's Name: Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) and Unidentified Perpetrator
People-Names: Jane MA Doe, John Manly, Avi Burkwitz
Company-Names: Manly Stewart Finaldi, Peterson Bradford Burkwitz Gregorio Burkwitz & Su, LLP
Places: Van Nuys Middle School
Dates: March 14, 2024, July 18, 2024, September 30, 2024
Events: Filing of demurrer, opposition, and reply
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The Judge's intention is to rule on LAUSD's demurrer to the Plaintiff's first cause of action
Facts: The Plaintiff, a minor with severe Autism, alleges that LAUSD and Unidentified Perpetrator failed to prevent sexual abuse and negligence
Disputes: LAUSD disputes the sufficiency of the Plaintiff's claims, alleging that they fail to state a cause of action
Acts: The Plaintiff filed a complaint, and LAUSD filed a demurrer, opposition, and reply
Agreements: The parties met and conferred in person or by telephone
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code, Penal Code
Case Citations: Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont General Corp., Hahn v. Mirda, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs., McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC, Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association, Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc., PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court
Statutes: Penal Code ยง11166, Code of Civil Procedure ยง430.41
Roles: Judge Rolf Treu, Plaintiff Jane FA Doe, Defendant LAUSD, Unidentified Perpetrator, Counsel for Plaintiff John Manly, Counsel for Defendant LAUSD Avi Burkwitz
Significant Statements: The demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained, Negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, the doctrine of negligence per se creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge is considering LAUSD's demurrer to the Plaintiff's first cause of action, which alleges negligence, negligent supervision, negligent hiring and retention, negligent failure to warn, train or educate, sexual harassment, intentional infliction of emotional distress, gender violence, sexual battery, and sexual assault. The Judge finds that LAUSD's demurrer fails to dispose of the entire first cause of action and therefore cannot sustain it. The Judge rules that the demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.