 Case Number:  24STCV06351    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  73 09/30/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
DOE v. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT, et al. (24STCV06351)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: John Manly (Manly Stewart Finaldi)
Counsel for
Defendant LAUSD/moving party:  Avi Burkwitz
(Peterson Bradford Burkwitz Gregorio Burkwitz & Su, LLP)
 
Demurrer TO FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 7/18/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff Jane FA Doe, a minor by and through her
guardian ad litem, Jane MA Doe (“Plaintiff”), filed this against Defendants Los
Angeles Unified School District, a local public entity (“LAUSD”); Unidentified
Perpetrator, an individual; and Does 1-100. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following causes
of action in her First Amended Complaint: 
1.     Negligence
2.     Negligent
Supervision
3.     Negligent
Hiring and Retention
4.     Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train or Educate
5.     Sexual
Harassment in Education Setting
6.     Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
7.     Gender
Violence
8.     Sexual
Battery
9.     Sexual
Assault
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff Jane FA Doe is a female
minor, who was born on July 23, 2007. Plaintiff is a non-verbal Special
Education student, diagnosed with severe Autism, who requires an aide to assist
her during school hours at Van Nuys Middle School. Plaintiff was under LAUSD's
supervisory personnel's care, control, and supervision. Unidentified Perpetrator
was employed, retained, and/or allowed to be on-campus to supervise,
mentor, aide, and/or teach children at Van Nuys Middle School. Plaintiff is informed and believes that Unidentified
Perpetrator sexually abused
Plaintiff by touching Plaintiff's genitals over her clothes in a classroom
during school. Plaintiff is informed and believes that Plaintiff's assigned
one-on-one aide witnessed Unidentified Perpetrator touching Plaintiff inappropriately.
Plaintiff is informed and believes that Unidentified Perpetrator was arrested pursuant to this incident
but not prosecuted. Plaintiff is also informed and believes that Unidentified
Perpetrator was transferred to
another school within LAUSD but was not terminated by Defendant LAUSD.
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant
LAUSD filed a demurrer to the FAC, arguing:
·       The First
Cause of Action for Breach of Mandatory Duties/Violation of Statute/Negligence
Per Se fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action 
·       Here, the
Plaintiffs rely on Penal Code §11166 to support a claim for negligence per se
and breach of mandatory duties. Plaintiff's
legal conclusion fails to allege facts that support the threshold question of
whether the penal code contains a mandatory duty and allege any facts that
support an allegation of whether that duty was
breached other than relying on circular and conclusory language. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s reliance on negligence per se is misguided and grounds for a
demurrer.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       LAUSD cannot demur
to only a portion of Plaintiff’s negligence action. "A demurrer must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained." (Fremont Indem. Co.
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
o  
Here, Defendant explicitly requests the Court to sustain its
demurrer to the negligence per se portions of Plaintiff’s Negligence claim.
o  
This is improper and the demurrer must be overruled on this
ground. 
o  
LAUSD does not seek to strike these paragraphs by way of a Motion
to Strike, which would have been the proper vehicle by which to challenge these
claims.
·       Negligence
Per Se Is Properly Pleaded Against DOE 1 for Violating Mandated Reporting, As
It Is Vicariously Liable For Its Agents' Failures
o  
Here, the negligence per se claims in the First Cause of Action
arise from LAUSD’s employees and/or agents who failed to report suspected or
known child abuse. FAC,
¶¶ 42-50.
·       Plaintiff
Need Not Identify Who Breached LAUSD’s Mandatory Duties
 
LAUSD filed a reply maintaining that the Court should sustain its
demurrer to the first cause of action. Any alleged violation of Penal Code
§11166 would presumably be addressed as a cause of action for breach of a
mandatory duty and not a
claim for negligence/negligence per se.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for LAUSD submitted a declaration stating that the parties
discussed the grounds of the demurrer via telephone on July 3, 2024. (D’Egidio
Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and
confer obligation and the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
B.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.     First Cause
of Action for Negligence
 
According to LAUSD’s notice of demurrer, LAUSD
asserts that Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Breach of Mandatory
Duties/Violation of Statute/Negligence Per Se fails to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action.
 
In order to state a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of
care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an
injury.”  (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in
Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements
are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation
of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to
person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the
nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent;
and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property
was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or
regulation was adopted.”  (Spates v.
Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, cleaned
up.)  “The doctrine of negligence per se
is not a separate cause of action[] but creates an evidentiary presumption that
affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.”  (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, cleaned up.)
 
As an initial matter, the Court finds that LAUSD’s
demurrer fails to dispose of the entire first cause of action. Demurrers do not
lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is
alleged.  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 119 (“A demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained.”).) Negligence per se is not a separate cause of action (see Johnson
v. Honeywell International, Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555; Millard
v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1353 n.2.), but it is a
separate theory of negligence upon which recovery may be based. (See e.g., Randi
W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066,
1086-87.) Here, LAUSD’s notice states that Plaintiff’s First Cause of
Action for Breach of Mandatory Duties/Violation of Statute/Negligence Per Se
fails. However, LAUSD cannot demur to only the negligence per se portion of the
first cause of action for negligence. As the Court stated in PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682:
 
"[W]e do not reach the merits of the
petition because Ibershof's demurrer was not procedurally proper. A demurrer
does not lie to a portion of a cause of action. ([citation omitted)) Thus,
Ibershof could not properly demur to the Hoffer claim portion of the causes of
action; and the trial court could not properly sustain the demurrer as to only
that portion." (emphasis added).
 
Therefore, the Court does not address the
merits of LAUSD’s demurrer because the Court cannot sustain a demurrer to only
a portion of a cause of action. 
 
As such, the demurrer
to the first cause of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first cause of action is
OVERRULED. 