  Case Number:  22TRCV01128    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 November 1, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01128  CASE NAME:                        Maurice Stephenson  v. Leo Ramsey, et al.  MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Maurice Stephenson   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,  Leo Ramsey (no opposition filed)    TRIAL DATE:                        February 24, 2025    MOTION:                              (1) Motion for Sanctions for  Defendant Leo Ramsey’s Failure to Comply with Discovery Order RE Maurice  Stephenson’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two                                                  Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  After  consideration of the totality of the circumstances, the Court in the exercise  of its discretion finds that the imposition of a lesser sanction such as  additional monetary sanctions or evidentiary sanctions would not be effective  in securing Mr. Ramsey’s compliance with his discovery obligations.  Accordingly, the Court imposes the  terminating sanction of striking Mr. Ramsey’s Answer.    I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual   On November 3, 2022, Plaintiff,  Maurice Stephenson (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Leo  Ramsey, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. The  Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Oral  Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of  Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation; (5) Intentional  Misrepresentation; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Negligence; (8) Declaratory  Relief; and (9) Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and  Professions Code § 17200, et seq.   Plaintiff’s  moving papers state that on August 28, 2023, he propounded the second set of  Requests for Production of Documents on Defendant, Leo Ramsey (“Ramsey”).  Plaintiff notes that responses were due on October 5, 2023. Plaintiff further  asserts that on September 21, 2023, Defense Counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel  to request an extension of time until October 30, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel  granted the request. The parties instead, agreed to a November 10, 2023  deadline. Nonetheless, Plaintiff contends that on November 10, 2023 and October  25, 2023, that Plaintiff’s counsel did not receive any communication from  Defendant’s counsel requesting an extension to respond to Plaintiff’s Requests  for Production of Documents, Set Two. After not receiving said responses,  Plaintiff’s counsel contends he contacted Defendant’s then counsel via letter  on December 29, 2023 to inquire about the missing responses. However, since  then, Plaintiff informed this Court that Defendant failed to provide any  written responses or produce any documents responsive to the discovery  requests.  Accordingly, Plaintiff brought a motion  to compel initial responses to discovery.     On  May 3, 2024, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel initial responses  as well as Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. The Court also ordered  sanctions against Leo Ramsey in the sum of $2,500 payable to Edward Ho, counsel  for Plaintiff.  Both the verified  discovery responses and payment of the monetary sanctions were due by June 3,  2024. However, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Ramsey failed to provided  responses of any sort, has not produced any documents in response, and has not  paid any of the $2,500 sanctions. Further, defense counsel has since withdrawn  form the representation of Mr. Ramsey.   With the trial date approaching, Plaintiff has brought a motion for  sanctions fo Defendant’s violation of a prior discovery order.    B. Procedural              On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff  filed this motion for sanctions  for Defendant, Leo Ramsey’s failure to comply with discovery order. To date, no  opposition brief has been filed. On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice  of non-opposition.  II. ANALYSIS    A.    Legal Standard  Where  a party willfully disobeys a discovery order, courts have discretion to impose  terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010(d), (g),  2023.030; R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th  486, 495.)  Code  of Civil Procedure § 2030.040 requires that “[a] request for a sanction shall,  in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against  whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.”  Furthermore, the notice of motion shall be  supported by a memorandum of points and authorities and accompanied by a  declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction  sought.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.040.)   Monetary  sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the  reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result  of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that the one subject to the sanction  acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of the sanction unjust.”   (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.030(a).) Issue sanctions may be imposed “ordering  that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance  with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery  process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting  any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or  opposing designated claims or defenses.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §  2030.030(b).) Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order  prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from  introducing designated matters in evidence.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §  2030.030(c).)    In more extreme cases, the Court may also  impose terminating sanctions by “striking out the pleadings or parts of the  pleadings,” “staying further proceedings,” “dismissing the action, or any part  of the action,” or “rending a judgment by default” against the party misusing  the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.030(d).)  The  court should look to the totality of the circumstances in determining whether  terminating sanctions are appropriate.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000)  77¿Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified  where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and  evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with  discovery rules.  (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196¿Cal.App.4th  1495, 1516.)  “[A] penalty as severe as dismissal or default is not  authorized where noncompliance with discovery is caused by an inability to  comply rather than willfulness or bad faith.”  (Brown v. Sup. Ct.  (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)  “Although in extreme cases a court has  the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first measure [citations], a  terminating sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has  attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the  record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.”  (Lopez v.  Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th  566, 604-605.)    B.      Discussion                                                   i.             Terminating  Sanctions  Plaintiff argues that this Court is  authorized to impose a terminating sanction against Defendant Ramsey because he  disobeyed a prior court discovery and sanctions order. If a party fails  to comply with a court order compelling discovery responses or attendance at a  deposition, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating  sanctions. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (h) (depositions); § 2030.290,  subd. (c) (interrogatories); § 2031.300, subd. (c) (demands for production of  documents); § 2033.290, subd. (e) (requests for admission). Code of Civil  Procedure section 2023.030 provides that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the  chapter governing any particular discovery method . . . , the court, after notice  to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing,  may impose . . .  [monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions  against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process .  . .” Section 2023.010 provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to,  the following: . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized  method of discovery. . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery. .  .”   “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for  discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]  conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to  the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain  the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th  377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)  “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made  lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and  the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with  the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate  sanction.’” (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390  [citation omitted].)     “Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed  terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more  discovery orders.” (Id., citing Lang, supra, 77 Cal. App.  4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &  Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating  sanctions imposed after defendants failed to comply with one court order to  produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231  Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen  (1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against  plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating  various discovery statutes].)   Here, as noted in Plaintiff’s moving  papers, this Court ordered Defendant Ramsey to provide statutorily compliant  responses to Plaintiff’s second set of Requests for Production of Documents,  and to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff by June 2, 2024. Despite this order,  Plaintiff informs this Court that Defendant Ramsey has failed to do so, has failed  to pay the court-ordered monetary sanctions, and is now almost five months past  the due date. Plaintiff contends that Defendant Ramsey has also failed to contact  Plaintiff regarding the lawsuit or the order such as to promise responses by a  date certain or to seek a continuance of the hearing while he prepared  responses.    The Court agrees with Plaintiff that this  is an extreme case and that the totality for the circumstances weigh in favor  of granting a terminating sanction against Defendant Ramsey. Defendant Ramsey  has failed to comply with several court orders, trial is looming a few months  away, and the record before the Court is that Defendant has determined to  abandon his defense of the case.  While this  Court is only inclined to grant terminating sanctions after a history of  discovery misuse and only after the opposing party has failed to comply with a  prior court discovery order, the record reflects that here.  Further, the imposition of a lesser sanction  such as additional monetary sanctions or evidentiary sanctions would not, in  the Court’s judgment, be effective in securing Mr. Ramsey’s compliance with his  discovery obligations.  Accordingly, the  Court exercises its discretion and imposes the terminating sanction of striking  Mr. Ramsey’s Answer.                                                ii.             Monetary Sanctions   Given  the Court’s ruling on the motion for terminating sanctions as against Defendant  Ramsey, the Court is not inclined to order further monetary sanctions for  Ramsey’s failure to comply with its previous discovery order. Defendant Ramsey failed  to comply with the Court’s May 3, 2024 order in the last five months, which  included its order for payment of monetary sanctions.  It would be futile for the Court to order him  to pay additional amounts that on the record before the Court he will fail to  pay.      III.  CONCLUSION   For  the foregoing reasons, this court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion as to terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff  is ordered to provide notice of the ruling. 