

Hearing
Date:             April 24, 2024
Case
Name:                Estrada v. T&R
Painting and Drywall
Case
No.:                    23STCV27518
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving Party:             Defendant T&R Painting and
Drywall

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Anibal Eleno Ramirez Estrada

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration.

 
In this
employment action filed on November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Anibal Eleno Ramirez Estrada (Plaintiff) filed
a complaint against his former employer, Defendant T&R Painting and Drywall
(Defendant). The Complaint seeks relief on fifteen causes of action including
discrimination, retaliation and wrongful termination. 
 
            On
March 5, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant
failed to carry its burden of showing the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement and that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration. 
 
            Evidentiary Issues
 
            Plaintiff’s objections
to Defendant’s evidence are ruled as follows: No. 1 is overruled, and Nos. 2-3
are sustained.
 
            Defendant’s objection
to Plaintiff’s evidence is ruled as follows: No. 1 is sustained. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
In ruling on
a motion to compel arbitration, a court must determine two threshold matters:
first, whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists; and second, whether that
agreement encompasses the dispute at issue. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)   
 
            By way of
background, on January 1, 2013, Plaintiff was hired by Defendant to work as a
painter. (Compl., ¶ 17.) On June 19, 2019, Plaintiff completed an employment
application, and signed an arbitration agreement (Agreement). (Rapaport Decl.,
¶ 3.) 
 
Pursuant to the Agreement, Plaintiff
agreed to arbitrate any dispute arising out of his employment with Defendant. Specifically,
the Agreement provides in relevant part: 
 
“Employee and Company agree that if
any dispute arises from Employee's application or candidacy for employment,
employment and/or cessation of employment with Company, it will be submitted to
final and binding arbitration. Except for workers' compensation and
unemployment insurance claims, the term "dispute" includes every kind
or type of claim or controversy, but not limited to, any allegation of failure
to pay wages owed, wrongful discharge, discrimination, or any injury to
Employee's physical, mental or economic interests not covered by workers'
compensation ... This means that a neutral arbitrator, rather than a court,
jury, or commission, will decide the dispute.” (Rapaport Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to present any
admissible evidence authenticating the Agreement and thus failed to carry its
initial burden on this motion to compel arbitration. 
 
As noted above, Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of Adam Rapaport are well taken. Specifically,
the Court sustained Plaintiff’s objections to Attorney Rapaport’s declaration declaring
that Plaintiff signed the Agreement and authenticating the attached Agreement. The
Rapaport declaration is devoid of any representations that would lay a foundation
based on personal knowledge to assert what Plaintiff signed the Agreement in 2019
or Agreement is a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s signed agreement. Moreover,
even in the face of these evidentiary objections, Defendant does not submit any
supplemental evidence in reply. 
 
Nevertheless,
on meeting its initial burden, Defendant is not required to authenticate the Agreement.
Although Plaintiff submits a thorough analysis regarding the admissibility of
the evidence, Plaintiff does not address what evidentiary burden is required of
a party moving to compel arbitration on its initial burden.  
 
At the first
step, the moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate, either by stating the provisions verbatim, or
“by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the
opposing party's signature.” (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060 (Espejo).) The
moving party, however, “is not required to authenticate an opposing party's
signature on an arbitration agreement as a preliminary matter” (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846), and “the
court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an
evidentiary determination of its validity” (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219). If the moving party meets its
initial burden of production, the burden shifts to the party opposing
arbitration to produce evidence challenging the authenticity of the agreement.
(Gamboa, at p. 165.) If that burden is met, “the moving party must
establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties.” (Ibid.)


For example,
in Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, the court – relying on Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215 – concluded “that defendants
here met their initial burden [to show an agreement to arbitrate] by attaching
to their petition a copy of the purported arbitration agreement bearing
Espejo's electronic signature.” (Id. at p. 1060.) Only because Dr.
Espejo “challenged the validity of that signature in his opposition, defendants
were then required to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the
signature was authentic.” (Ibid.) 
 
Importantly, here, Plaintiff does
not submit any evidence that he did not sign the Agreement submitted in moving
papers. In fact, Plaintiff submits no declaration at all in opposition. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s reliance on Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836 is not well taken as this case is distinguishable.
As expressed in Ruiz, “a petitioner is not required to
authenticate an opposing party's signature on an arbitration agreement as a
preliminary matter in moving for arbitration or in the event the
authenticity of the signature is not challenged.” (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 846.) The
moving party’s authentication burden only arose after Ruiz claimed he did not
recall signing the agreement. (Ibid.)
 
             Based on the foregoing,
Defendant has carried its initial burden of demonstrating the existence of a
valid, binding arbitration agreements and that Plaintiff’s claims fall
within the scope of the Agreement. 
 
The Court next considers the
enforceability of this Agreement. 
 
Contract Enforceability 

 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the contract is unenforceable because it is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
Agreement did not attach
the applicable rules referred to in the agreement. 
 
            In support
of this argument, Plaintiff cites Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 1402, 1405. While a failure to attach incorporated rules to an
arbitration agreement may be a factor supporting a finding of
unconscionability, it is insufficient to support a finding of unconscionability
on its own. (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th
676, 690.) Rather, such an omission is unconscionable only when “the failure
would result in surprise to the party opposing arbitration.” (Id. at
690-91 [collecting cases and distinguishing Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113
Cal. App. 4th 1402].)
 
            Here, Plaintiff
merely argues that the relevant arbitration rules were not attached but does not
contend that he was surprised by the selected arbitration rules. Moreover, as
was the case in Lane, the arbitration rules incorporated here are easily
found on the internet. (Id.) In particular, the American Arbitration Association
rules are linked in the text of the Agreement itself. (Rapaport Decl., Ex. 1 [citing
“www.adr.org for more information”].)[1]
Thus, this factor does not show procedural unconscionability.
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that the
purported arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
Agreement was in English, despite Plaintiff’s inability to speak or read
English. However, the only evidence as to Plaintiff’s ability to understand
English is Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, which the Court ruled was inadmissible
based on Defendant’s evidentiary objections. 
 
            Plaintiff
submits no other evidence, including no representation that as the
Agreement was made a condition of employment or that he was not offered time to
review the agreements or negotiate its terms. 
 
            Thus, Plaintiff
has not identified any procedural unconscionability in the Agreement and Plaintiff’s
unconscionability argument fails for this reason. (Baltazar v. Forever 21,
Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)
 
Nonetheless, the Court will address
the substantive unconscionability argument, as well. 
            
Here, Plaintiff also argues the Arbitration
Agreement contains several substantively unconscionable provisions. 
 
Specifically, Plaintiff argues the
Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it “bars the employee’s right
to a Berman hearing before the California Labor Commissioner, fails to
adequately identify the main contracting parties, and requires the filing fees
to be divided among the parties.” Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority
in support of these arguments, provide any legal analysis or identify specific
provisions with the Agreement. 
 
First, the waiver of a right to a
Berman hearing does not necessarily render the Agreement unconscionable.
Specifically, California Supreme Court has held that while a waiver of a Berman
Hearing indicates potential substantive unconscionability, “the waiver of
Berman procedures does not, in itself, render an arbitration agreement
unconscionable.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 130.) Rather,
the substantive unconscionability analysis requires
analysis “sensitive to ‘the context of the rights and remedies that otherwise
would have been available to the parties’” that requires an examination of
“both the features of dispute resolution adopted as well as the features
eliminated.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at 130.) Here, Plaintiff’s
conclusory citation to this analysis is insufficient to carry Plaintiff’s
burden of showing substantive unconscionability. 
 
            Further, Plaintiff’s
characterization of the Agreement as requiring the parties divide the filing
fees is misconceived. The Agreement provides:
 
“The Company will pay the arbitrator’s
fees and the cost of the facilities for the arbitration. Filing fees and
reporter fees shall be divided among the parties, unless such fees would exceed
normal court fees. In such cases, the Company shall, in addition to its own one
half of the fees, pay the difference between what the employee would have paid
in court as a filing fee or a reporter fee and one half of the actual amount of
those fees.” (Rapaport Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.)
 
            Here, the
case authority regarding sharing arbitration costs is specific to fees unique
to arbitration. In Armendariz, the court held that an employee may not
be required to pay fees that are unique to arbitration. (24 Cal.4th at
111 [A predispute arbitration agreement that requires the employee to bear any
type of expense that he would not otherwise bear in court is “contrary to
public policy, and is therefore grounds for invalidating or revoking an
arbitration agreement.”].) 
 
Here, the
Agreement only requires that fees be shared for fees that would have been
incurred by Plaintiff in a court proceeding as well – that is, fees not unique
to arbitration.
 
Finally, Plaintiff’s challenge that
the Agreement does not adequately identify the parties has no merit. The
Agreement clearly refers to Plaintiff and Defendant T & R Painting Drywall.
There is no claim of confusion and no argument that the Agreement applies to
any other party. 
 
Based on the
foregoing,
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden of showing the Agreement is
unenforceable based on unconscionability. 


CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. The motion to compel
arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration.


