  Case Number:  23CHCV01549    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 4/9/24
Case #23CHCV01549
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 2/13/24.  
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Santa Clarita (Doe 1)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Luis Barajas
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
            1.  Premises
Liability – Dangerous Condition of Public Property
            2. 
Motor Vehicle
            3. 
General Negligence

 
RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order
striking portions of the First Amended Complaint
regarding Plaintiff serving the City of Santa Clarita with a claim for
damages.  

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  The motion to strike is placed
off calendar as moot.  
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of an incident that occurred on or
about 4/25/22 while Plaintiff Luis Barajas (Plaintiff) was a passenger on a bus
driven by Defendant Mario Aguirre. 
Plaintiff alleges that he was forcibly thrown off the bus by another,
unidentified, passenger which caused him to sustain injuries.  
 
On 5/30/23, Plaintiff filed this action for negligence against
certain named defendants and Does 1-20. 
On 9/20/23, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint naming the
City of Santa Clarita (the City) in place of Doe 1.  On 11/29/23, the City filed and served a
demurrer to the complaint.  On 1/5/24,
the City filed and served a Notice of Non-Receipt of Opposition to
Demurrer.  On 1/8/24, Plaintiff filed
(served on 1/7/24) a First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
Premises Liability – Dangerous Condition of Public Property; (2) Motor Vehicle
and (3) General Negligence.  On 1/9/24,
the City filed an objection to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.
 
On 1/12/24, this Court sustained the City’s demurrer with
leave to amend.  (See 1/12/24
Minute Order).  Since an amended pleading
had already been filed, the Court granted the City 30 days from 1/12/24 to
respond to the First Amended Complaint.  Id.  After meet and confer efforts failed to
resolve the issues the City had with the First Amended Complaint, on 2/13/24,
the City filed and served the instant demurrer to the entire First Amended
Complaint and motion to strike  portions
of the First Amended Complaint regarding Plaintiff serving the City with a
claim for damages.  (Theiring Decl.).  Plaintiff has opposed the demurrer and motion
to strike and the City has filed replies to the oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
The City’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) as to items
1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 is granted.  The
City’s Request for Judicial Notice as to item 3 is denied.  Item 3 does not fall under any of the
subsections in Evidence Code 452.    
 
The City demurs to each cause of action in the First
Amended Complaint on the ground that it is barred due to Plaintiff’s failure to
comply with the Government Claims Act. 
In order to sue a public entity, such as the City, for money or damages
based on a cause of action relating to personal injuries, a person must first
present a claim to the entity within six months of the date the cause of action
accrues.  See Renteria
(2006) 135 CA4th 903, 908 citing Government Code 911.2 and 945.4; (FAC
No.5.c.(4)).
 
Although Plaintiff has alleged that the City was served
with a claim for damages pursuant to Government Code 911.2 which was rejected
by an agent of the City, Plaintiff’s argument/admissions in the opposition
establish that the foregoing allegations are untrue.  (See FAC p.6, p.8, p.10).  
 
In the opposition to the demurrer, Plaintiff argues that
the exhibits attached to the declaration of attorney Michael Dufour establish
that Plaintiff adequately complied with the Government Claims Act requirement
which is sufficient to allow the action to proceed.  (See Opposition, p.6:1-15 citing State
of California v. Superior Court (Bodde) (2004) 32 C4th 1234); Dufour Decl.
¶¶4-5).  
 
Government Code 910 provides: 
 
“A claim shall be presented by the
claimant or by a person acting on his or her behalf and shall show all of the
following:
(a) The name and post office
address of the claimant.
(b) The post office address to
which the person presenting the claim desires notices to be sent.
(c) The date, place and other
circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim
asserted.
(d) A general description of the
indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage or loss incurred so far as it may be
known at the time of presentation of the claim.
(e) The name or names of the public
employee or employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known.
(f) The amount claimed if it totals
less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) as of the date of presentation of the
claim, including the estimated amount of any prospective injury, damage, or
loss, insofar as it may be known at the time of the presentation of the claim,
together with the basis of computation of the amount claimed. If the amount
claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), no dollar amount shall be
included in the claim. However, it shall indicate whether the claim
would be a limited civil case.”
 
The first document relied on by Plaintiff is a Public
Records Request which indicates that Plaintiff was pushed from a bus by a
fellow passenger which caused Plaintiff to hit his head on the cement and requests
a copy of video footage.  (See
Dufour Decl. ¶4, Ex.2).  The second
document relied on by Plaintiff is the denial of a claim made by Plaintiff to co-defendant
MV Transportation Inc.’s insurance carrier. 
(See Dufour Decl. ¶5 and Ex.2 and 3 attached thereto).  Neither of these document provided all of the
information required to be included in a government claim.  See Government Code 910, 910.2.  More importantly, neither of these documents
contain information which would have put the City on notice that Plaintiff was
attempting to file a valid claim and that litigation would result if the matter
was not resolved.  See Bodde,
supra at 1245.  Plaintiff gives no
indication that anything else was submitted to the City with regard to the
claims made in this action.  As such,
Plaintiff has failed to establish that he can cure this defect in his pleading.  Hedwall (2018) 22 CA5th 564, 580.          
 
Even if Plaintiff had submitted a proper government claim
to the City, Plaintiff has failed to establish a proper basis for his motor
vehicle and general negligence causes of action.  Liability against public entities, such as
the City, is governed by statute. 
Government Code 815(a); Searcy (1986) 177 CA3d 792, 798.  Here, Plaintiff has failed to set forth any
statutory basis for the motor vehicle and general negligence causes of
action.  Additionally, while the opposition
requests leave to amend, Plaintiff fails to indicate how he could amend the
pleading to cure the defect as is his burden. 
Hedwall, supra.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  The motion to strike is placed off calendar
as moot due to the ruling on the demurrer. 
   
   
 