  Case Number:  23STCV17736    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  74 Gomez v.
Acevedo et al.
Defendants Victor Guevara Acevedo
and Mayra Flores’s Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP)
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
motion arises out of a housing discrimination and habitability dispute between
plaintiff Andrea Gomez (Plaintiff) and defendants Victor Guevara Acevedo and
Mayra Flores (Defendants). Defendants move to strike under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16.
            The
court continued the hearing as a matter of calendar management. In continuing the
hearing from November 7 to December 5, 2024, the court did not reopen briefing nor
invite supplemental briefing. Accordingly, the court disregards Defendant’s untimely
reply filed on November 27, 2024, which was due at least five court days before
November 7.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The
anti-SLAPP statute provides: “[a] cause of action against a person arising from
any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court
determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. §
425.16(b)(1).) 
            The
protected conduct is defined under CCP § 425.16 (e) (1) –(4) which states: “As
used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or
free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection
with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing
made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”   
            Therefore,
regardless of the label assigned to a cause of action, “[i]f the supporting
allegations include conduct furthering the defendant's exercise of the
constitutional rights of free speech or petition, the pleaded cause of action
‘arises from’ protected activity, at least in part, and is subject to [a]
special motion to strike.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376 at
381- 382 (Baral) quote marks omitted.)  
            “Resolution
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish
that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If
the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success. We
have described this second step as a “summary-judgment-like procedure.” The
court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its
inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient
claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true and evaluates the
defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a
matter of law. Claims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.” (Baral
at 384-85, citations omitted.)   
 
DISCUSSION
First Prong - Protected Activity
Defendants
identify seven different allegations of protected activity, which Defendants describe
as service of eviction notices and attempting to evict the Plaintiff. “A claim arises from
protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the
claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017)
2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.)
Plaintiff asserts the challenged allegations in the Complaint’s Introduction;
the tenth cause of action for violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance; the twelfth cause of action for violation of the Los
Angeles Civil and Human Rights Ordinance; the thirteenth cause of action for
retaliatory eviction; and the fifteenth cause of action for violation of the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).
Service and prosecution of an unlawful detainer action are, in and of themselves,
a protected activity.  (Newport Harbor
Offices & Marina, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 28, 45; see also Cal. Civ. Proc. § 425.16 (e)(1) [complaint made in
judicial proceeding is protected activity].) Here, however, Plaintiff’s
allegations reciting service of the eviction notice and the eviction
proceedings are the background and context for the unlawful activity Plaintiff
alleges. That unlawful activity – Defendant’s purportedly illegal
discrimination and retaliation – is the activity from which Plaintiff’s lawsuit
arises, not the unlawful eviction proceeding. (See Complaint ¶¶ 69 [gender discrimination],
173.vi [paraphrases ordinance – no conduct alleged], 187 [transgender
discrimination], 195 [retaliation] 196 [retaliation], 216 [discrimination].)
For example, Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action alleges violation of the Los Angeles
Municipal Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. 
In this cause of action, Plaintiff alleges six separate activities
Defendants engaged in that constituted the violation, including
“[m]isrepresenting to a tenant that the tenant is required to vacate… through
an intentional misrepresentation or the concealment or omission of a material
fact” and “[t]hreatening and taking action to terminate a tenancy including
service of any notice to quit… based on facts which the Defendant has no reasonable
cause to believe to be true.” The central facts underlying the tenth cause of
action are the misrepresentation, concealment, and threats, not the eviction
itself.  In the tenth cause of action,
the notice to quit is merely an example of retaliation.  
Plaintiff’s
twelfth cause of action for its part alleges a violation of the Los Angeles
Civil and Human Rights Ordinance which states, in part, “no person shall
discriminate in any manner or retaliate against in party” in housing.  (Los Angeles Municipal Code §§ 51.03,
51.04.)  The thirteenth cause of action
similarly prohibits a landlord from “… taking adverse action against a tenant
to retaliate against a tenant.”  (Civ.
Code § 1942.5(a).) And the fifteenth cause of action similarly prohibits harassing
or evicting a tenant in retaliation. 
(Cal. Gov. Code § 12955.)  Each of
these causes of action’s central component is unlawful gender discrimination or
retaliation.  (See Ben-Shahar v.
Pickart (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1052-53; Moriarty v. Laramar Mgmt.
Corp. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 125, 140.) 

Defendants
have not met their initial burden of showing that the allegations arise from protected
activity. Accordingly, the court does not continue to the second prong.
 
CONCLUSION
The
Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike. 
Defendants to give
notice. 