  Case Number:  20STCV44166    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling 
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 5, 2024                                                       TRIAL DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                                Kumchai Miyahara v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
 
CASE NO.:                      20STCV44166
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
Wells Fargo Bank
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff Kumchai
Miyahara
 
 
I.             INTRODUCTION
 
This is a bad faith action. 
Plaintiff Kumchai Miyahara (Miyahara or Plaintiff) alleges Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo or Defendant) failed to promptly investigate a
fraudulent mortgage assignment and lien associated with a property owned by
Miyahara. 
 
Wells Fargo demurred to the operative pleading.  Judge Orozco sustained the demurrer without
leave to amend.  Miyahara appealed.  The Court of Appeal in Miyahara v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 687 (Miyahara), affirmed the decision in
part, and reversed the decision in part. 
The appellate court remanded the matter with directions.  
 
Following remand, Miyahara’s operative pleading is the
Second Amended Complaint. 
 
II.           FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
According to the
allegations in the operative complaint,[1] Kumchai Miyahara (Miyahara
or Plaintiff) purchased real property located on Hercules Drive in Los Angeles
in June 1988. At the time of the purchase, Miyahara “obtained a loan from World
Savings Bank, FSB in the amount of $740,000. In March 2006, [Miyahara] obtained
a [refinance] loan for the Property from World Savings Bank in the amount of
$920,000.”
 
In 2013 and 2014 Miyahara
became estranged from her husband “and he stopped supporting her.” Following
the estrangement, “Plaintiff called Wells Fargo to request a loan modification
[and] Wells Fargo told [her] to work with the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development.” Although Miyahara worked with the Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) “and other family members to secure a loan
modification, ... her loan modification application was ultimately declined.”
According to “[a] letter from HUD ... the property was valued by an outside
appraisal at $2.5 million, a loan modification was not in Defendant's interest,
and Defendant wanted to foreclose.” Miyahara “pawned all of her personal
belongings to pay the outstanding balance of arrears to avoid foreclosure.”
 
In November 2016 Miyahara
“again faced financial hardship and had trouble making her loan payments.”
Miyahara again contacted Wells Fargo “to request a loan modification [and] was
told by Wells Fargo that they would help her, and to simultaneously explore
other options for refinancing. Plaintiff enlisted the services of Fritz Hoffman
of South Bay Equity Lending, who was able to secure Plaintiff another loan.”
 
On April 5, 2017 “during
the time that [Miyahara's] refinance was in process, a Notice of Default was
recorded by Wells Fargo.”  In June 2017
the loan secured by Hoffman went to escrow and “[a]t or around that time,
Plaintiff first learned of a $920,000 lien on the property from West H&A
LLC.” The assignment of deed of trust purported to assign the deed from Wells
Fargo to West H&A LLC. The discovery of the lien “halted ... refinance.”
 
Upon learning of the lien,
Miyahara sought assistance from Wells Fargo to clear title so she could
refinance the property. But “conversations with Wells Fargo representatives did
not result in any assistance with the lien.” On July 26 Hoffman contacted Wells
Fargo on behalf of Miyahara. Wells Fargo informed Hoffman “the assignment
should be viewed as invalid” and “there was nothing more they could do.”
Although “Wells Fargo understood that the invalid lien ... would interfere with
[Miyahara's] ability to refinance her mortgage ... [Wells Fargo] continued with
foreclosure proceedings.”
 
On August 2 Miyahara hired
attorney Robert E. Opera “to speak to Wells Fargo on her behalf to resolve the
invalid mortgage assignment.” Since the foreclosure sale was set for September
20, however, Miyahara “was forced to hire” a bankruptcy attorney to file a
chapter 13 bankruptcy petition on her behalf in order “to stay the foreclosure
on the property.” Miyahara filed her bankruptcy petition on September 19.
 
In June 2018, while her
bankruptcy was pending, Wells Fargo's mortgage fraud division contacted
Miyahara to inform her a fraudulent lien was found on her account, and she
should contact the police. In late 2018 Miyahara's bankruptcy attorney “received
a letter from Wells Fargo stating that they were taking West H&A to court.”
The bankruptcy attorney later “received 
a second letter from Wells Fargo, indicating that they won their case
against West H&A” making Wells Fargo once again the first lienholder on
Miyahara's property.
 
The following facts were
judicially noticed by Judge Orozco. In August 2018 Wells Fargo filed a motion
for relief from the automatic bankruptcy stay “so that title can be cleared to
the subject property in the name of Ms. Miyahara and that Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. be named first lienholder on the property via Quiet Title, Declaratory
Judgment and Cancellation of Instrument action in California state court.”
According to the motion for relief, the lien filed by West H&A LLC “has
been one of many fraudulent assignments in various locations across the United
States as part of a conspiracy and scheme to collect mortgage payments from
homeowners and to defraud and confuse lenders such as Wells Fargo Bank N.A.”
Miyahara stipulated to the motion and the bankruptcy court granted it, but
specifically ordered that “the automatic stay shall remain in effect with
respect to any foreclosure proceedings on the subject real property. The relief
sought by Wells Fargo does not affect or modify the Chapter 13 Plan.”
 
The fraudulent lien was
removed from the property, but Miyahara was unable to make agreed-upon payments
under her bankruptcy plan. “On December 24, 2019, Plaintiff received a letter
that her Chapter 13 Bankruptcy Petition had been dismissed.”
 
“On January 21, 2020 a
Notice of Trustee Sale was recorded on the Property.” Although Miyahara sought
an extension, Wells Fargo would not extend the trustee sale date. In May 2020
Miyahara applied for another refinance loan but was only eligible for a loan
with 9.5 percent interest. As a result of the stress caused by this process,
Miyahara “has broken out in hives all over her body.”
 
Miyahara initiated this action against Wells Fargo on
November 17, 2020.  On June 24, 2021,
Miyahara filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Wells Fargo alleging
causes of action for (1) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 1788.17; (3)
Violation of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq.; and (4) Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code § 2924.17.
 
Wells Fargo demurred to each cause of action in the FAC on
two grounds: (1) judicial estoppel barred Plaintiff’s claims, and (2) the
causes of action were insufficiently pleaded. 
Judge Orozco agreed the doctrine of judicial estoppel applied and
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend.  The court entered judgment in favor of Wells
Fargo on November 29, 2021. 
 
Plaintiff appealed.  On
April 18, 2024, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur, affirming in part, and
reversing in part, the court’s November 10, 2021, order.  Specifically, the Court of Appeal (1) reversed
the judgment, (2) affirmed Judge Orozco’s order sustaining the demurrer to each
case of action, (3) affirmed the order sustaining as to the fourth cause of
action without leave to amend, (4) reversed the order sustaining the demurrer
to the first, second, and third causes of action without leave to amend, and
(5) remanded the matter with instructions. 
 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC) against Wells Fargo for 1)
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Violation of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1788.17; and (3) Violation of Business and Professions Code §§
17200, et seq.
 
On August 15, 2024, Defendant filed this Demurrer and Motion
to Strike portions of the SAC.
 
Plaintiff filed oppositions. 
Defendant filed a consolidated reply. 

 
III.        JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s unopposed request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.
 
IV.         LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The primary function of a
pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its¿case
[citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party
cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿ 
“A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the
complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses
a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages from a
complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read
the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780,
804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual
allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded
and matters of which judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra,
56 Cal.4th at p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)¿“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.”¿ (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
 
Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
V.          DISCUSSION
 
            Wells Fargo
argues the first, second, and third causes of action fail to plead sufficient
facts.  Wells Fargo raised this argument
in its previous demurrer.  Judge Orozco
did not reach this issue because she sustained on other grounds.  On appeal, the Miyahara Court
considered the argument and agreed with Wells Fargo that the causes of action
were pleaded deficiently.   However, the
Court of Appeal also agreed Miyahara had made a sufficient showing that an
amendment might be able to cure the defects. 
(See Part C, Miyahara, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 703
(unpublished portion of opinion).)  Accordingly,
the Court of Appeal remanded the matter granting Plaintiff leave to amend and
provided instructions.  The court now addresses
the sufficiency of the allegations with due consideration of the Court of
Appeal’s instructions.
 
A.   
Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (1st
Cause of Action)
  
“Under California law,
every contract includes an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Prager University v. Google LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1039.) “The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘
“as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting
party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the
express covenants) frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the
contract.” ’ ... A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of
the contract [citation], and ‘breach of a specific provision of the contract is
not ... necessary’ to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand,
LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Wells
Fargo breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing “by
continuing to foreclose on the Property after learning of the invalid lien,
which Wells Fargo understood was preventing Plaintiff from refinancing her
mortgage. Wells Fargo knew that the lien on Plaintiff's account was invalid yet
refused to take any action to remedy the situation so that Plaintiff could
avoid foreclosure. Instead, Wells Fargo forced Plaintiff to file for bankruptcy
to stay the foreclosure proceedings, thereby impacting her ability to refinance
her mortgage in the future.”  (SAC, ¶ 35.)  
 
Wells Fargo argued, and the Court of Appeal agreed, that
Miyahara (1) “failed to specify an express
contractual right that was allegedly interfered with, belying any breach of
implied covenant claim;” and (2) Miyahara failed to allege how she was
damaged by any alleged breach. However, the Miyahara Court stated “leave should be given in order to
allow Miyahara to allege what clause of the contract was allegedly breached and
whether the alleged provision upon which she relies is “ ‘reasonably
susceptible’ to the meaning ascribed to it in the complaint,” and to allege
what damages if any, Miyahara may have suffered.  (Miyahara, supra, at p. 703.)
 
Upon review of the SAC, the
court finds the first cause of action is still deficiently pleaded.  
 
First, Plaintiff did not
cite an express contractual right with which Wells Fargo interfered.   Plaintiff
contends she sufficiently alleged Wells Fargo’s conduct interfered with Plaintiff’s
post-breach remedies under the terms of the Deed of Trust, and more
specifically, Plaintiff’s right to pay all of the sums secured by the Deed of
Trust to avoid foreclosure.  (Opp., p.
6:25-28.)  These contentions are
unavailing. As mentioned above, Plaintiff does not allege any express
contractual right with which Wells Fargo interfered.  Further, Plaintiff’s inability to refinance
her mortgage to avoid foreclsoure was “due to the invalid lien.”  (SAC, ¶
1.)  In other words, West H&A, and not Wells Fargo, interfered with
Plaintiff’s right to pay all of the sums to avoid foreclosure. 
 
Second, because Plaintiff does not allege the particular
contractual right with which Wells Fargo interfered, Plaintiff cannot allege
any damages resulting from Wells Fargo’s conduct.  
 
  Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
B.    
Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1788.17 (2nd Cause of Action)
 
The Rosenthal Act is codified at Civil Code section 1788, et
seq.  “ ‘The
Rosenthal Act was enacted “to prohibit debt collectors from engaging in unfair
or deceptive acts or practices in the collection of consumer debts.” ’ ” (Young
v. Midland Funding LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 63, 77.)
 The Act prohibits specified acts by debt
collectors (Civ. Code, §§ 1788.10-1788.16), and requires them to comply with provisions of the
federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. § 1692 et seq.). Miyahara alleges Wells Fargo's foreclosure in 2017 violated
the Rosenthal Act.
 
Wells Fargo argued, and the Court of Appeal agreed, that (1)
this cause of action is time-barred, and (2) Miyahara failed to allege facts
constituting unfair or unconscionable debt collection attempts by Wells Fargo
because it had a contractual right to pursue foreclosure to address the payment
default, and Wells Fargo was under no obligation to remedy the third-party
fraud.  The Court of Appeal directed
leave to amend be given to allow Miayhara the opporutnity to allege facts, if
any, demonstrating how Wells Fargo engaged in a continuing violation that
extended into the limitations period, and to identify what specific provision
of the Fair Debt Collections Practice Act (incorporated into the Rosenthal Act)
had been violated.  (Miyahara, supra, at p. 703.)
Wells Fargo’s demurrer to
the second cause of action focuses on the second point.  It  argues Plaintiff has not alleged what specific
provision of the Fair Debt Collections Practice Act was violated.  The court agrees.  The SAC references generally to violations of
15 U.S.C. § 1692b-k but fails to identify
which specific provision was violated. 
Indeed, Plaintiff does not allege any new facts that describe any
“unfair or unconscionabe” debt collection activity by Wells Fargo.
Plaintiff contends the totality of the circumstances made
Defendant’s actions an unfair and unconscionable means of attempting to collect
the mortgage.  Plaintiff refers the court
to the allegations at paragraph 43, which states, “In or around July 2017,
after learning that Plaintiff was foreclosed from refinancing her loan
due to the invalid mortgage assistance on her account, WELLS FARGO continued to
foreclose on the Property. WELLS FARGO’s failure to stay the foreclosure
proceedings, make any effort whatsoever to resolve the invalid
mortgage assignment, or provide any assistance to Plaintiff, were patently
unfair and unconscionable means to collect or attempt to collect on the mortgage.”  (SAC, ¶ 43, emphasis in original.)  The contention is unavailing.  This same allegation appeared in the FAC, (see
FAC, ¶ 56), yet the Court of Appeal directed Plaintiff to allege the specific
provision that had been violated. 
Plaintiff did not do so.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action
is SUSTAINED.
C. Violation
of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq. (3rd Cause of Action)
 
As the Court of Appeal noted, Plaintiff’s third cause of
action is derivative of the previous causes of action.  The same holds true in the SAC.  (SAC, ¶ 56.) 
Because the court has concluded the preceding causes of action are insufficiently
pled, the UCL claim likewise fails.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
VI.         CONCLUSION
 
            The
Demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is
GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to file and serve a Third Amended Complaint within 20 days of the
date of this order.  
 
            Given the
court’s ruling on the Demurrer, the Motion to Strike is MOOT.
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 5,
2024                                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 


