 Case Number:  22STCV36816    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
5, 2024                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Joanne Pak v.
Jennifer O. Oh, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV36816
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS AND ACTUAL PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES 
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERICE OF SUMMONS AND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT ON YOUNHEE CHO



 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This action
arises from the alleged breach of an oral contract. Plaintiff, Joanne Pak, a
self-represented litigant, alleges that between August 22, 2013 to February 6,
2020, she personally loaned the total sum of $65,945.00 to Defendants Jennifer
O. Oh (Oh) and Younhee Cho (Cho) (collectively, Defendants) so that Defendants
could purchase a house. In return, Defendants promised to repay Plaintiff with
interest by October 30, 2020 without any intention to repay the loan.
Defendants have not repaid the loan.  
 
On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint in pro per
against Defendants for (1) Financial Elder Abuse, (2) Breach of Contract, and
(3) Money Had and Received and Account Stated.  Promissory notes written
in Korean and dated 7/17/2022 and 8/22/2013, as well as personal checks issued
by Defendants to Plaintiff were attached as exhibits to the Complaint. 
 
On June 20, 2023, Oh, filed a demurrer to the
Complaint.  The demurrer was heard on November 8, 2023.  The Court
overruled the demurrer to the First Cause of Action.  As to the Second and
Third Causes of Action, the Court sustained the demurrer on the basis that the
statute of limitations barred the claims.  However, because Plaintiff had
not yet filed an amended pleading, the Court granted Plaintiff leave to
amend. 
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action for (1) Financial Elder
Abuse, (2) Breach of Contract, and (3) Money Had and Received and Account
Stated.  A certified translation of the 8/22/2013 promissory note is
attached to the FAC.  On December 6, 2023, Oh filed a demurrer to the
Second and Third Causes of Action in the FAC.   On February 13,
2024, the court sustained Oh’s demurrer without leave to amend.   
 
Before the court are three motions: (1) Oh’s motion to
compel further responses to request for documents and actual production of
documents, (2) Oh’s motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories, and (3) Cho’s motion to quash service of summons and the FAC. 
 
            The court begins
by addressing Oh’s motions to compel further.
 
II.        MOTIONS TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY
 
A.   
Background 
 
Oh propounded Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Two, on Plaintiff.  On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff provided a verified
response.   Oh took issue with Plaintiff’s response and
attempted to meet and confer.  Plaintiff
did not agree to supplement her responses. 
 
On September 16, 2024, Oh filed these motions to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Oh’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two. 
Oh seeks sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
The motions are unopposed.[1]
 
B.    
Legal
Standard
            
Under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and
2031.310, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories and
requests for production of documents¿where an answer to the requests are
evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ A
motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c);
2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or
opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection demands,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (h).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
             
C.    
Application
 
Oh seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1-54 and Request for
Production of Documents, Set Two, Nos. 26-47.  In response to both sets of discovery,
Plaintiff stated the following:
 
This
is simple cause of action of Breach of Contract (for Debt Collection), where at
least the defendants conceded their contractual duty to pay and issued a joint
check (OH & CHO, Mother & Daughter) $46,225.00 in secure of their
promise to promise [sic] to pay, even if they did not concede of $65,945. Under
the circumstances, attorney representing defendants strategically and
frivolously pursues irrelevant matters so that he wanted to propagate the case.
Indeed, asking party’s attorney propounded irrelevant document except said
check being issued by the defendants. 
 
In
other words, this case is extremely simple for the debt collection, which had
been conceded by the defendants (Mother Jennifer O. Oh and Daughter Yunhee Cho)
and issued a check $46,225.00 in secure of their promise to promise [sic] to
pay, which are attached in the complaint. 
 
Therefore,
propounding party (JOANNE PAK) denied to produce such irrelevant documents (all
of production), which are “strategically and frivolously aimed propagation and
fabrication of simple debt collection action.” 
 
(Park Decls., Exs. 2, emphasis in originals.)
 
As Oh correctly points out, this response is not
Code-compliant.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.220(a) requires
responses to each interrogatory “to the extent possible” which are “as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available” to the responding
party.¿ Section 2030.220 (c) states:¿ If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.¿¿ “The
responding party must make a reasonable effort to obtain wherever information
is sought; and if unable to do so, must specify why the information is
unavailable and what efforts the responding party made to obtain it.” (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782; Weil & Brown, Cal. Civ.
Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:1061.)¿¿¿ 
 
As to responses to requests for production of documents, the
following rules apply. The party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to each item or
category of item by any of the following: 
 
1.     
A statement that the party will
comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
by the date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related
activities. 
2.     
A representation that the party
lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling of a particular item or category of item. 
3.     
An objection to the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).) 
 
“If only part of an item or category of item in a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is objectionable, the response shall
contain a statement of compliance, or a representation of inability to comply
with respect to the remainder of that item or category.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.240, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s response does not comply with any of the
foregoing principles governing responses to interrogatories or requests for
production of documents.  The response is
not straightforward.  No apparent effort
was made to respond to each discovery request or, where applicable, indicating
whether Plaintiff will or will not comply with a particular demand for production.  A further response is warranted.  Plaintiff, having not filed an opposition,
does not provide any argument to the contrary. 
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Oh requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  Given the court’s ruling, the court finds
sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff in the sum of $603.30, consisting of
one hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $123.30 in filing fees.
 
D.  Conclusion  
 
            Oh’s unopposed motions to compel further responses are
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve
verified, supplemental responses to Oh’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.
 
            Oh’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff is to pay sanctions in the sum of $603.30 to Oh, by and
through Oh’s counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 45 days of
this order.
 
            Defendant
to give notice. 
 
III.      MOTION TO
QUASH 
 
            A.  Background
 
On November 22, 2022, Plaintiff commenced this action
against Defendants.  On November 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed the FAC.  
 
On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service By
First-Class Mail—Civil (Judicial Council Form POS-030).  The document indicates Cho was served with
the summons and FAC by mail service at an address in Seoul, Korea.
 
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of
Summons indicating Cho was served with the summons and initial complaint on
December 21, 2023 in Seoul, Korea. 
 
On August 28, 2024, Defendant Cho filed this Motion to Quash
Service of Summons and First Amended Complaint. 

 
The motion is unopposed.[2]
 
B.  Legal Standard      
 
Personal service may be accomplished by personally
delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be served.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)¿ If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot,
with reasonable diligence, be personally delivered to the person being served,
substitute service may be effected by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint at the person’s “dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of
business, or usual mailing address ... in the presence of ... a person apparently
in charge ... and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by
first-class mail ... to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(b).)¿  
 
A summons in an action for unlawful detainer of real
property may be served by posting if upon affidavit it appears to the
satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in any manner specified in
this article other than publication and that: 
 
(1)¿A cause of action exists against the party upon whom
service is to be made or he is a necessary or proper party to the action;
or 
 
(2)¿The party to be served has or claims an interest in real
property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of the court or the
relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in excluding such
party from any interest in such property. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd. (a).)¿ The court shall
order the summons to be posted on the premises in a manner most likely to give
actual notice to the party to be served and direct that a copy of the summons
and of the complaint be forthwith mailed by certified mail to such party at his
last known address.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
A defendant must file a motion to quash service of summons
on or before the last day on which the defendant must plead unless the time is
extended by stipulation or by a judge’s order for good case.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Although the notice of motion must designate a
hearing date not more than 30 days after the notice is filed, scheduling a
hearing date beyond the 30-day time period does not deprive the court of
jurisdiction to consider the merits of the motion.¿ (Olinick v. BMB Entertainment
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1295-96.)¿ 
¿ 
Filing a proof of service by a registered process server
creates a rebuttable presumption that service was proper.¿ (American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390 (Zara); Evid.
Code, § 647 [“The return of a process server registered pursuant to ... the
Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption,
affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the
return”].)¿¿This evidentiary presumption also applies in unlawful detainer
actions and is “consistent with the purpose of the unlawful detainer procedure
to afford a relatively simple and speedy remedy for specific landlord-tenant
disputes.”¿ (Palm Property Investments, LLC v. Yadegar (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 1419, 1427 (Palm Property).)¿However, the presumption only
arises if the proof of service complies with the statutory requirements
regarding such proofs.¿ (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441-42.)¿ Proof of service of summons may be impeached by
evidence that contradicts it.  (City of Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951)
105 Cal.App.2d 726, 731.)¿ 
¿ 
When a defendant moves to quash service of summons, the
plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court
jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.”¿  (Coulston
v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)¿ 
 
C. Application
 
Cho is entitled to an order quashing service of summons and
the FAC.  Plaintiff filed two documents
on March 28 and 29, 2024 which demonstrate Cho was not properly served.  The March 28 document indicates Cho was
served by mail at an address in Korea.  (See
Proof of Service By First-Class Mail, 3/28/2024.) Because Cho resides in Korea,
the Hague Convention applies.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 413.30.)  Article 10(a) of
the Hague Convention, sending of judicial documents by mail to persons abroad
is permitted only “provided the State of destination does not object.”  Here, however, the Republic of Korea does not
permit service by mail.  “The Republic of
Korea is a party to the Hague Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extra Judicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters. Complete information
on the operation of the Convention, including an interactive online request
form are available on the Hague Conference website. Requests should be
completed in duplicate and submitted with two sets of the documents to be
served, and translations, directly to Korea’s Central Authority for the Hague
Service Convention. The person in the United States executing the request form
should be either an attorney or clerk of court. The applicant should include the
titles attorney at law or clerk of court on the identity and address of
applicant and signature/stamp fields. In its Declarations and Reservations on
the Hague Service Convention, Korea formally objected to service under Article
10, and does not permit service via postal channels.”  (U.S. Department of State – Bureau of
Consular Affairs, Service of Process, “https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/legal/Judicial-Assistance-Country-Information/KoreaRepublicof.html”.)
 
 
Plaintiff’s March 29 filing fares no better.  That document indicates only that Cho was
personally served with the initial complaint.  (See Proof of Service of Summons,
3/29/2024.)  The operative pleading is
the First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff
has not provided proof or argument to show service of process was properly
effectuated as to Cho. 
 
D.   
Conclusion
 
The
unopposed motion to quash is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant to
give notice.
 
IV.       DISPOSITIONS
 
1.      Oh’s unopposed motions to compel
further are Granted.  Plaintiff is
ordered to serve verified, supplemental responses to Oh’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.
 
Oh’s request for sanctions is Granted.  Plaintiff is to pay sanctions in the sum of
$603.30 to Oh, by and through Oh’s counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be
provided and sanctions are to be paid within 45 days of this order.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
2.     
Cho’s unopposed motion to quash
service of summons and the FAC is Granted.
 
Defendant to
give notice. 
 
             
Dated:   November 5, 2024                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


