  Case Number:  23SMCV05405    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05405




MOTION


Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
  Production Set 1, No. 6




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Dimas Murillo 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Ronald Paul Ackerman



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff Dimas Murillo (“Plaintiff”) now
moves to compel further responses from Defendant Ronald Paul Ackerman
(“Defendant”) to Request for Production Set 1, No. 6 (“RPD”).  Defendant opposes the motion and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.    
Timeliness
of Motion 
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be “given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which” the parties have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file such a motion within this time
period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses to demands
for production of documents.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff served the RPD on May 22, 2024, and Defendant served
verified responses on June 24, 2024. 
(Babakhanian Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. 2.) 
On Aug. 16, 2024, Defendant served a further response containing
additional objections.  (Id. at ¶
7 and Ex. 6.)  The parties attended an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on October 9, 2024, where the parties agreed to a
mutual extension of October 23 to provide further responses and November 6 to
file a motion to compel.  (Babakhanian
Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. 8.)  On October 23, Defendant
served a second further response to the request for production, but no further
response was provided for No. 6.  On
November 6, Plaintiff filed the instant motion.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is timely and Defendant has not objected
to the timeliness of the motion.  
 
2.    
Meet and
Confer
 
            A motion to compel must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)  A meet and confer
declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed ‘to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity of a formal order.  . . . 
This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the
unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion of
informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.”  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1434-1435, citations omitted
[cleaned  up].)  To comply, “A reasonable and good-faith
attempt at informal resolution entails something more than bickering with
[opposing counsel].  Rather, the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.”  (Townsend, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p.
1439; see also Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294 [to
satisfy the attempt at informal resolution required in section 2016.040
opposing parties must do more than try to persuade each other of their
errors].)  In short, the Discovery Act
“requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal
resolution.”  (Townsend, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.)
 
            To that end, trial courts are
entrusted with discretion and judgment to determine the necessary effort
required to satisfy the requirement of an informal resolution. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433.)  In determining if parties have satisfied Section
2016.040, judges may consider “the history of the litigation, the nature of the
interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of
discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be
relevant.” (Id. at pp. 431-432 [holding that the trial court was correct
in determining that sending a letter with oppositions was an insufficient
attempt at an informal resolution].)  In
sum, meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters to each
other stating each party’s respective positions. 
 
            Here, as set forth in the Declaration
of Anthony Babkhanian, the parties met and conferred at length and attended an
informal discovery conference in an effort to informally resolve the issues
presented in the motion.  
 
3.    
Separate
Statement 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff has filed a separate
statement related to the motion which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
Analysis
            
1.    
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and eliminate
trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate responses.
(Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a) [motion to
compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection”].)  “A trial court's
determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
            With
respect to demands for inspection of documents or other items, the Discovery
Act provides as follows:
 
The party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to
each item or category of item by any of the following:  (1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the
date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related
activities.  (2) A representation that
the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of item.  (3) An objection to the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  “A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230.)
 
2.    
RPD No. 6
 
RPD No. 6 seeks “True and correct copies of all photographs, videos,
or motion pictures which depict Plaintiff DIMAS MURILLO from one year before
the day of the INCIDENT up to and including the present day. [As to
photographs, only color copies of photographs will be deemed an acceptable
response to this request. Plaintiff will pay reasonable copy costs.]”     
 
            Defendant served a further response
to RPD No. 6 asserting:
 
·      
Objection. Calls for premature disclosure of
expert materials in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.010 et
seq. Calls for information obtained during litigation and/or in anticipation of
litigation. Violates work product doctrine. Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc.
v. Superior Court of Sacramento County (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 214. Compound.
Vague, ambiguous as to “photographs”, “videos”, and “motion pictures”.
Overbroad in time and scope. Unduly burdensome and harassing as requested records
are more readily available to Plaintiff.
 
(See
Plaintiff’s  Separate Statement, p.
2.)  
 
a)     Burdensome/Vague/Other
Objections to Form
 
            “The objection based upon burden
must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to
support an objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an
intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the
burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  The
California Supreme Court further noted that 
“[s]ome burden is inherent in all demands for discovery.  The objection of burden is valid only when
that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.” (Id. at p.
418.)        Here,
Defendant has not made an adequate showing that responding to RPD No. 6 is
burdensome.  
 
            With respect to vagueness, the Court
finds unavailing Defendant’s contention that Defendant cannot discern from the
request what Plaintiff seeks.  The Court
finds RPD to be unambiguous.   
 
            Moreover, Defendant has failed to
make an adequate showing in his opposition papers to support the objections of
harassing, premature disclosure of expert materials, and compound.  Accordingly, the Court finds such objections
to be unmeritorious.  
 
b)    Attorney
Work Product Doctrine
 
            The attorney work product doctrine
is codified under Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.010, et seq.  
            
It is the policy of the state to do both of the
following:
 
(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare
cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to
prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but
the unfavorable aspects of those cases.
 
(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage
of their adversary's industry and efforts.
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2018.020, 2018.030.) 
“Absolute protection is afforded to writings that reflect ‘an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.’ All other
work product receives qualified protection; such material ‘is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.’ ”  (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 485, citations omitted (hereafter, Coito).)

 
            In Coito, the California
Supreme Court decided “[w]hat work product protection, if any, should be
accorded two items: first, recordings of witness interviews conducted by
investigators employed by defendant's counsel, and second, information
concerning the identity of witnesses from whom defendant's counsel has obtained
statements.”  (Coito, supra, 54
Cal.4th at 485.)  With respect to both
items, the Coito court opined:
 
[W]e hold that the recorded witness statements
are entitled as a matter of law to at least qualified work product protection.
The witness statements may be entitled to absolute protection if defendant can
show that disclosure would reveal its attorney's impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories. 
If not, then the items may be subject to discovery if plaintiff can show
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice [her] in preparing [her] claim
or will result in an injustice.
 
As to the identity of witnesses from whom
defendant's counsel has obtained statements, we hold that such information is
not automatically entitled as a matter of law to absolute or qualified work
product protection. In order to invoke the privilege, defendant must persuade
the trial court that disclosure would reveal the attorney's tactics, impressions,
or evaluation of the case (absolute privilege) or would result in opposing
counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or efforts (qualified
privilege).
 
(Id.
at p. 486 [cleaned up].)   Attorneys are
the holders of the “work product privilege.” 
(See Curtis v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 468 [“The
work product privilege is held by the attorney, not the client”].)  And the party that seeks the production of an
attorney’s “work product,” other than a writing, “has the burden of
establishing that denial of disclosure will unfairly prejudice the party in
preparing its claim or defense or will result in injustice.”  (Id. at p. 469.)[1]
 
 
            Here, Plaintiff seeks the production
of photographs, videos or motions pictures of Plaintiff, one year before the
underlying incident to the present (collectively, “Sub Rosa Evidence”), in the
possession, custody and control of Defendant. 
Plaintiff contends that good cause exists for the production to (1)
protect against surprise at trial, and (2) facilitate settlement.  
 
            In opposition, Defendant contends
that the Sub Rosa Evidence is the work product of counsel for Defendant, and
consequently protected from disclosure under the attorney work product
doctrine.  Further, Defendant intimates
that he intends to use the Sub Rosa Evidence as impeachment evidence and is
thus not required to produce such impeachment evidence.   
 
            In short, the question before the
Court is whether the attorney work product doctrine precludes the disclosure,
and production, of the Sub Rosa Evidence. 

 
            Defendant relies primarily on Suezaki
v. Superior Court for the proposition that the attorney work product
doctrine protects the Sub Rosa Evidence from being disclosed and produced.  Defendant’s reliance is faulty.  (Suezaki v. Superior Court (1962) 58
Cal.2d 166 (hereafter Suezaki).) 
First, the California Supreme Court held that the motion pictures of the
plaintiff taken by an investigator hired by the defendant’s attorney is not
protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
(Id. at p. 172.)  Second,
the California Supreme Court noted that the motion pictures were the work
product of the defendant’s attorney.  (Id.
at p. 177.)  As such, the Suezaki
Court stated as follows:
 
[I]n California the fact that the material sought
to be discovered is the ‘work product’ of the attorney is one factor to be used
by the trial court in the exercise of its discretion in determining whether or
not discovery should be granted. It does not mean that, simply because the
material involved is the ‘work product’ of the attorney, it can or should deny
discovery. Something more must exist. The trial court must consider all the
relevant factors involved and then determine whether, under all the circumstances,
discovery would or would not be fair and equitable.
 
(Id.
at p. 178.)   
 
             Against the backdrop of both parties’
positions, the Court finds Fisher v. National Railroad Passenger Corporation
to be instructive.  In that case, the
defendant obtained through an investigator surveillance of the plaintiff’s
activities inconsistent with his claimed injuries which would be used to
impeach the plaintiff at trial.  (Fisher
v. National R.R. Passenger Corp. (S.D. Ind. 1993) 152 F.R.D. 145, 147
(hereafter Fisher).  The defendant
objected to the production of the surveillance evidence before the plaintiff’s
deposition based in part on the attorney work product doctrine.  Following the plaintiff’s deposition, the
defendant produced a single surveillance video taken of the plaintiff that the
defendant intended to use as evidence at trial. 
The plaintiff nevertheless sought the production of all of the
surveillance video evidence.  (Id.
at p. 148.)  
 
            The issue before the Fisher
court was “Whether surveillance tapes of a Plaintiff which Defendant does not
intend to introduce at trial, but which it possesses, are discoverable by the
Plaintiff prior to trial.”  (Fisher,
supra, 152 F.R.D. at p. 150.)   In
answering that question and finding that the plaintiff did not meet his burden
to compel the production of the surveillance evidence, the Fisher Court
stated:
 
Deciding if a party has demonstrated the
requisite “substantial need” to justify discovery of work product involves a
balancing of the value of broad discovery as an accurate method of arriving at
a full resolution of each dispute with the corresponding need to prevent undue
intrusion into the attorney's preparation of her case. Striking this balance
is, at best, a discretionary decision of the court in the factual context of
the presented case.  However, in exercising
this discretion, relevant considerations include, among others, the importance
of the protected materials to the party seeking discovery; the degree to which
the protected material reflects the thoughts and mental impressions of an
attorney but yet remains outside of that absolutely protected category of
materials; the impeachment value of the material sought; and whether the party
seeking discovery knows, or is merely surmising, that the materials sought
contain impeaching material.
 
(Id.
at pp. 151–152 [cleaned up].)  Further,
the court noted:
 
Concluding that Plaintiff failed to make the
showing required to invade work product is not meant to refute the notion that
surveillance tapes prepared by a defendant to impeach a plaintiff may contain
substantive evidence, rather than merely impeachment evidence.  To the contrary, the current weight of
authority suggests that representations contained in videotapes are indeed
substantive evidence, and retreats from the previously held belief that
evidence used for impeachment is of a kind different and distinguishable from
evidence used to prove a case. Nor is it questioned that the videotapes may be
relevant to the issue of damages or harm suffered by plaintiff.  However, . . . not all relevant, substantive
evidence is discoverable, especially if that evidence is protected attorney
work product. Once conceded that work product protection extends to the
disputed materials, a different inquiry altogether is warranted, one which
requires Plaintiff to demonstrate substantial need for the protected materials.
Merely claiming that surveillance tapes prepared in anticipation of litigation
might contain substantive evidence, especially when an alternative source for
that evidence exists, does not provide “substantial need” to invade attorney
work product.
 
(Id.
at p. 153.)  
 
            Foremost, it is unclear based upon
the record whether Sub Rosa Evidence actually exists.    Yet to the extent that such evidence was
developed at the behest of counsel for Defendant and such evidence exists
because of the efforts of defense counsel, the work product doctrine may
preclude the production of such evidence. 
(See, e.g., Coito, supra, 54 Cal.4th at p. 495 [“witness
statement is in part the product of the attorney’s work.  The witness statement would not exist but for
the attorney’s initiative, decision, and effort to obtain it”].)  
 
            Notwithstanding, the Court finds
that Defendant has failed to serve a code compliant response as required under the
Discovery Act.  And if Sub Rosa Evidence
exists and is responsive to RPD No. 6, but Defendant is withholding the
production of such evidence, Defendant shall prepare and serve a privilege log along
with his further code compliant response to RPD No. 6. 
 
            Further, Plaintiff claims that the disclosure
and production of the Sub Rosa Evidence will prevent unfair surprise at
trial.  Plaintiff’s contention is meritorious
provided that the Sub Rosa Evidence is utilized by Defendant pre-trial or at
trial for any purpose including impeachment. 
But whether the Sub Rosa Evidence has any probative value will depend on
what Plaintiff discloses during the discovery process including at
deposition.  Specifically, if Plaintiff
discloses information which is consistent with the Sub Rosa Evidence, then such
evidence loses its potential impeachment quality and may not be utilized by
Defendant.  At this juncture, Plaintiff
is in the best position to determine whether any surveillance of Plaintiff
would be consistent with Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, and to present evidence
through Plaintiff’s own testimony regarding the extent of injuries which may or
may not affect life activities.  
 
            Equally important, Defendant asserts
that Sub Rosa Evidence, if any, will be merely impeachment evidence to be used
at trial.  As such, Defendant argues that
the production of Sub Rosa Evidence is precluded under the attorney work
product doctrine.  Yet “the defendant
cannot have it both ways.  If it chooses
this course, it does so with the understanding that the attorney-client
privilege and the work product doctrine are thereby waived.”  (Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 128 [at issue was whether a
pre-litigation investigation report should be produced during discovery].)  Similarly, the California Supreme Court has
held that an attorney cannot simultaneously advance work product in an
affirmative fashion and preclude disclosure of such work product.
 
Much like the work product doctrine itself, this
second theory of implied waiver is premised on the need to protect the
integrity of the judicial proceeding. The cases recognize that allowing one
party to rely on a document to establish key facts while simultaneously
shielding that same document from the other side works an unfair adversarial
advantage. Considerations of basic fairness accordingly may require disclosure
of otherwise privileged information or communications where a party has placed
in issue a communication which goes to the heart of the claim in controversy. 
 
Courts have found implied waiver in a variety of
litigation contexts.  In Nobles,
for example, the United States Supreme Court rejected an argument that criminal
defense counsel could simultaneously rely on a testifying defense investigator
to impeach the credibility of a critical prosecution witness while also
claiming the investigator's report was protected by the work product doctrine.
The court explained: “At its core, the work-product doctrine shelters the
mental processes of the attorney, providing a privileged area within which he
can analyze and prepare his client's case. But the doctrine is an intensely
practical one, grounded in the realities of litigation in our adversary system.
... [¶] ... Respondent, by electing to present the investigator as a witness,
waived the privilege with respect to matters covered in his testimony.”  
 
(People
v. Superior Court (Jones) (2021) 12 Cal.5th 348, 363 [cleaned up].)   Here, the Court finds Defendant’s argument
to be equally unavailing even if Defendant intends to use the Sub Rosa Evidence
for impeachment purposes only.                   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPD No. 6.  Defendant shall serve verified code compliant
responses, per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, consistent with the
Court’s ruling, within 20 days of notice of this order.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
December 11, 2024                                     ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court


