 Case Number:  24SMCV00538    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING  - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00538




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Reconstruction Experts Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Sebastian Giefer as Co-Trustee of the Giefer
  Family Trust



 
MOTION
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff Sebastian Giefer as Co-Trustee of the
Giefer Family Trust (“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendants Carolwood
Homeowners Association Inc. (“Carolwood”); Coro Community Management and Consulting,
LLC (“Coro”); and Reconstruction Experts Inc. (“Reconstruction”) (together,
“Defendants”).  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges three causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; (2) negligence; and (3) breach of fiduciary duty, arising from
allegations that Defendants neglected to properly repair and manage a leaking
roof that caused damage to Plaintiff’s unit. 
 
 
Reconstruction now demurs to the second cause of action for negligence
on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.  Plaintiff opposes the Demurrer
and Reconstruction replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
               
I.         
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION -
NEGLIGENCE
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Reconstruction demurs to the
second cause of action for negligence on the grounds that Reconstruction owes
Plaintiff no duty of care, and Plaintiff’s claim for negligence is barred by
the Economic Loss Doctrine.   As to
Reconstruction’s alleged duty, the FAC alleges:
 
8. Plaintiff owns the condominium located at 1033
Carol Drive, Apt. 401, West Hollywood, California 90069, the Property. 
 
9. In 2021, Plaintiff noticed water leaking
through the roof of his unit and Plaintiff informed the HOA and/or the
Management Company accordingly. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon
alleges that a rusted drain on the roof needed replacement. After the plumber
fixed the rusted drain, Reconstruction Experts were scheduled to follow up to
repair the roof surrounding the drain pipe. For reasons unknown to Plaintiff,
Reconstruction Experts did not follow up to complete the work and neither the HOA
nor the Management Company followed up with Reconstruction Experts to ensure
their work was completed. This left a roof gap surrounding the repaired drain
open for several weeks. 
 
10. As a result, this lead to significant water
intrusion during the rain, causing extensive damage to the Property.
 
[…]
 
28. At all times herein mentioned, defendants,
and each of them, owed Plaintiff a duty to exercise reasonable skill, care,
diligence, and foresight in properly maintaining and repairing the common areas
as the average reasonable person and/or business, in order to avoid harm to the
owners of condominium units in the common interest development. Additionally,
Defendant Reconstruction Experts owed Plaintiff a duty to exercise reasonable
skill, care, diligence, and foresight in properly performing the scope of the
work that they were retained to do with respect to the roof in a timely manner.

 
29. Defendants breached their duty of ordinary
care when they failed to maintain the common drainage abutting Plaintiff’s unit
and to repair the resulting damage to the interior of Plaintiff’s unit
subsequent to the loss originating from the common infrastructure. 
 
30. Defendant Reconstruction Experts breached
their duty of ordinary care when it failed to timely complete the scope of the
work it was contracted and tasked to do. Said negligence caused Plaintiff to
sustain serious damage to the Property. Additionally, Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges, that previously, Reconstruction Experts had
repaired and replaced the roof at the Property. Despite this, they did not
repair or replace the roof area surrounding the drain which was within the scope
of their work. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon alleges that
Reconstruction Experts’ failure to address this critical area also contributed
to the issue subject of Plaintiff’s Complaint, and Reconstruction Experts’
should have, at the very least, repaired the roof and flashing and informed the
Plaintiff, the HOA, and/or the Management Company about the bad drain.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 8-10; 28-30.)
 
Reconstruction first argues
that it owes Plaintiff no duty of care because (1) the Complaint does not
allege a direct contractual relationship between Plaintiff and Reconstruction;
and (2) the economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiff’s negligence claim.
 
A.   
Contractual
Relationship
 
“[T]he lack of privity of
contract does not preclude imposition of a duty of care.”  (Weseloh Family Ltd. Partnership v. K.L.
Wessel Construction Co., Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 152, 164 (hereafter Weseloh).)  Thus, the fact that there was no direct
contractual relationship alleged between Reconstruction and Plaintiff does not
automatically mean that Reconstruction owed Plaintiff no duty as a matter of
law.
 
“The determination whether in
a specific case the defendant will be held liable to a third person not in
privity is a matter of policy and involves the balancing of various factors,
among which are [1] the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect
the plaintiff, [2] the foreseeability of harm to him, [3] the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, [4] the closeness of the
connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, [5] the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, and [6] the policy of
preventing future harm.”  (Weseloh,
supra, 125 Cal.App.4th at p. 165.)
 
In Biakanja v. Irving
(1958) 49 Cal.2d 647 (hereafter Biakanja), the Supreme Court held a
notary public liable for preparing a will (which constituted the unauthorized
practice of law), which was found to be invalid because the notary public
negligently failed to have the will properly attested, causing the intended beneficiary
to inherit only one-eighth of the estate. 
In analyzing the first factor, the Supreme Court found that the “end and
aim” of the transaction was to pass the entire estate to the plaintiff.  (Id. at p. 650.)  
 
Similarly, here, the ultimate purpose
of Reconstruction’s roof repair work under the leaky drainpipe was to prevent
further water intrusion into Plaintiff’s unit. 
As such, it was foreseeable that negligent roof repair work over
Plaintiff’s unit would cause further water intrusion damage.  Moreover, the FAC adequately alleges a close
connection between Reconstruction’s failure to repair that area of the roof,
which was in the scope of its work, and additional leaks and water damage from
the rain.  
 
With respect to moral blame,
Reconstruction argues that it did not damage the leaky pipe in the first
instance.  Notwithstanding, Plaintiff
adequately alleges that Reconstruction’s failure to repair the area of the roof
under the leaky pipe caused further water intrusion into the unit.
 
Finally, Reconstruction has
pointed to no public policy preventing injured homeowners from bringing suit in
negligence against the construction company contracted to perform construction
work on the home just because it was the HOA, and not the homeowner, who
contracted with the company.
 
Therefore, the Court declines
to sustain the demurrer on the grounds that there was no direct contractual
relationship alleged between Plaintiff and Reconstruction.
 
B.   
Economic
Loss Doctrine
 
“[T]he economic loss rule
provides: where a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because the
product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract
alone, for he has suffered only economic losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (quoting Neibarger v. Universal
Cooperatives, Inc. (1992) 439 Mich. 512, 486 N.W.2d 612, 615, fns. omitted)
(quotations omitted).)  “This doctrine
hinges on a distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale of goods
for commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by commercial
and contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products to
individual consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied
by resort to the law of torts.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In construction cases, the
economic loss rule has been applied to bar recovery for the costs of repairing
minor construction defects and diminution in property value (see Aas v.
Superior Court (2000) 24 Cal.4th 627, superseded by statute on other
grounds (hereafter Aas), & State Ready Mix, Inc. v. Moffatt &
Nichol (2015) 232 Cal. App. 4th 1227 (hereafter State Ready Mix).)  But Aas and State Ready Mix
are distinguishable.
 
In Aas, the homeowners’
association brought claims against developer, contractor, and subcontractors,
seeking to cover the cost of repairing minor construction defects and damages
for diminution in value.  The Supreme
Court held that the association and homeowners could not recover damages on a
negligence claim for the cost to repair, or diminished value attributable to,
construction defects that had not caused other property damage.  By contrast, here, the damage at issue is not
limited to the roof itself, but the failure to repair the roof allegedly caused
further property damage when the damaged roof allowed water to intrude into Plaintiff’s
unit.
 
In State Ready Mix,
Moffatt, an engineer, at the request of another engineer on the project,
reviewed and approved a cement mix design, even though it was not part of
Moffatt’s duties or responsibilities on the project.  Technical issues arose when it came time to
mix the concrete, and in creating the mix, State added too much of an
air-entrainment chemical into the mix, causing the concrete to fall below the
calculated compression strength, and fail, resulting in damages associated with
replacing the bad concrete.  State is
distinguishable for two reasons.  
 
First, the error was State’s
in mixing the concrete wrong and using a concrete mixture that was not
recommended by Moffatt.  As a result, all
the Biakanja factors failed—Moffatt’s advice did not cause the harm, and
therefore did not impact State, the harm was not foreseeable, there was no
closeness of connection between Moffatt’s conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame was State’s in mixing the concrete wrong, not Moffatt’s in
approving the plan, and holding Moffatt liable would do nothing to prevent
future harm.   
 
Second, the damages at issue
in State Ready Mix were solely those required to remove and replace the
defective concrete itself; there was no other property damage done.  By contrast, here, in addition to the roof
itself being damaged, there was additional damage alleged by virtue of the
water intrusion into Plaintiff’s unit.
 
Therefore, the Court does not
find that the economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiff’s negligence claim.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Reconstruction’s Demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action.  Further,
the Court orders Reconstruction to file an Answer to the FAC on or before December
27, 2024.
 
Reconstruction shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service.  
 
 
DATED:  December 11, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00538




MOTION


Motion
  to Strike portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Carolwood Homeowners Association Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sebastian Giefer as Co-Trustee of the Giefer Family Trust



 
MOTIONS
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff Sebastian Giefer as Co-Trustee of the
Giefer Family Trust (“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendants Carolwood
Homeowners Association Inc. (“Carolwood”); Coro Community Management and
Consulting, LLC (“Coro”); and Reconstruction Experts Inc. (“Reconstruction”)
(together, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff’s
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges three causes of action for
(1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; and (3) breach of fiduciary duty,
arising from allegations that Defendants neglected to properly repair and
manage a leaking roof that caused damage to Plaintiff’s unit.   
 
Carolwood moves to strike allegations concerning negligence per se
(FAC ¶¶ 31-35) and exemplary/punitive damages (FAC ¶¶ 38-39, 45; Prayer at ¶
4.)  Plaintiff opposes and Carolwood
replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Here, Carolwood moves to strike (1) allegations pertaining to negligence
per se; and (2) allegations pertaining to exemplary/punitive damages.
 
A.    Negligence
Per Se
 
Carolwood first argues that negligence per se is not its own cause of
action, but rather an evidentiary presumption. 
Here, Plaintiff’s second cause of action is for “negligence” and alleges
both ordinary negligence and negligence per se against Carolwood.  Carolwood moves to strike the allegations
pertaining to negligence per se on the grounds that the Davis-Sterling Act
cannot support an action for negligence per se. 
Carolwood claims that the Davis-Sterling Act provides only general
principles and is insufficiently specific to allege a cause of action for
negligence per se.
 
As a threshold matter, Carolwood does not cite any legal authority in
support of the position that a violation of the Davis-Sterling Act cannot
support a claim of negligence or the negligence per se allegations. 
 
Further, the FAC alleges:
 
31. In 1985, California’s Legislature passed the Davis-Stirling Common
Interest Development Act, revised in 2012 and codified as Civil Code section
4000, et seq. (the “Act”). The Act is aimed at establishing homeowners
associations, which are self-governing bodies of a common interest development.
Under the Act, homeowners’ associations operate pursuant to a constitution set
forth in a recorded document known as CC&Rs. The CC&Rs encompass rules
of governance, which include the responsibilities of a homeowners association
to the owners of units in a common interest development. 
 
32. Additionally, the Act establishes a unified statutory framework
that regulates homeowners associations for all types of common interest
developments for the benefit of owners of condominiums within a common interest
development. Section 4775(a) of the Act assigns responsibility “for repairing,
replacing or maintaining the common areas” to the homeowners association. 
 
33. The HOA is the type of homeowners association to which the Act
applies, as it is in the business of governing the Carolwood Homeowners
Association common interest development for the benefit of owners of units
within the common interest development. 
 
34. At the time of the incident alleged in this Complaint, Plaintiff
was the owner of a condominium unit in the common interest development governed
by the HOA. Accordingly, Plaintiff is a member of the group of people whom the
Act was created to protect. 
 
35. As fully explained in this Complaint, the HOA failed to use the
degree of care that a reasonable person in the same situation, i.e., in the
care of a common interest development, would have used in protecting Plaintiff
from hazards arising out of losses in the common area. Said protection would
include (1) the proper maintenance of the common drainage and roof; (2) the
safe and careful repair of the common drainage and roof; and (3) the safe and
careful repair of the damage resulting from water intrusion to the interior of
Plaintiff’s unit. The HOA failed in each or all of these respects and said
failure was a substantial, indeed the singular, cause of Plaintiff’s damages.
Defendants’ failure to use reasonable care caused the type of harm that the Act
was trying to prevent, subjecting Plaintiff to sustain damages, and thereby
violating the provisions of the Act.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 31-35.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff specifically alleges that Carolwood violated Section
4775(a) of the Davis-Sterling Act, which requires homeowner associations to
repair, replace, or maintain common areas, by failing to properly maintain and the
common drainage and roof or the water intrusion damage caused thereby.  
 
Therefore, Carolwood has not provided a basis for the Court to strike
these allegations.
 
B.    Punitive
Damages
 
With regard to Carolwood’s request to strike exemplary/punitive
damages, in ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, with respect to punitive
damages, Plaintiff alleges:
 
38. Defendants’ conduct described herein was
intended by the defendants to cause injury to the Plaintiff or was despicable
conduct carried on by the defendants with willful and conscious disregard of
the rights of Plaintiff or subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, or was an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendants with the intention to deprive Plaintiff of property, legal rights or
to otherwise cause injury, such as to constitute malice, oppression or fraud
under California Civil Code section 3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to
punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set an example of
Defendants, and each of them, and Does 1 to 50. 
 
39. Defendants’ conduct described herein was
undertaken by the corporate defendants’ officers or managing agents, identified
herein as DOES 1 through 50, who were responsible for claims supervision and
operations, underwriting, communications and/or decisions. The aforementioned
conduct of said managing agents and individuals was therefore undertaken on
behalf of the corporate defendant. Said corporate defendant further had
advanced knowledge of the actions and conduct of said individuals whose actions
and conduct were ratified, authorized and approved by managing agents whose
precise identities are unknown to Plaintiff at this time and are therefore
identified and designated herein as Does 1 through 50, inclusive.
 
[…]
 
45. Defendants’ conduct described herein was
intended by the defendants to cause injury to the Plaintiff or was despicable
conduct carried on by the defendants with willful and conscious disregard of
the rights of Plaintiff or subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, or was an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendants with the intention to deprive Plaintiff of property, legal rights or
to otherwise cause injury, such as to constitute malice, oppression or fraud
under California Civil Code section 3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to
punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set an example of
Defendants, and each of them, and Does 1 to 50.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 38-39; 45.)
 
            These conclusory allegations are
insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirement to allege oppression,
fraud, or malice on the part of Carolwood’s corporate leader(s).  Therefore, the Court grants in part Carolwood’s
motion to strike, and strikes paragraphs 38-39 and 45 from the FAC and
paragraph 4 of the Prayer.  
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that the HOA knew about the harm, but
intentionally delayed the repairs to benefit its insurance carrier, and
Plaintiff can add additional facts in this regard.  Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
request for leave to amend to add specific allegations supporting the claim for
punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants in part and denies in part
Carolwood’s motion to strike.  The Court
orders paragraphs 38-39, 45, and Prayer paragraph 4 stricken from the FAC with
leave to amend.  The Court denies
Carolwood’s motion to strike in all other respects.
 
Plaintiff shall file and serve a second amended complaint, in
conformance with this Court’s order, on or before December 27, 2024.
 
Carolwood shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  December 11, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court