  Case Number:  22PSCV00430    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Amir
Shamloo’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (i.e., as to the Second Amended
Complaint) is DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiffs Zia Abhari (“Abhari”) and Amir Shamloo
(“Shamloo” and collectively with Abhari as the “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On
May 2, 2020, Gordes Hospitality, Inc. (“Gordes”), through Ganyu Huang aka Gary Huang (“Huang”), and Shamloo, with Abhari serving as a silent partner, entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement” and a “Security Agreement” with Gordes for the transfer of ownership of
Hamilton’s Steakhouse (“Hamilton”) from Gordes, as seller, to Plaintiffs, as
buyers. On June 18, 2020, LVGEM Hotel Corporation (“LVGEM”), through Huang, and Shamloo, with Abhari
serving as a silent partner of Shamloo, entered into a “Lease Agreement” for the lease of the property upon which
Hamilton is located. Gordes, LVGEM and Huang have refused to transfer the
existing liquor license for Hamilton to Plaintiffs, failed to provide
Plaintiffs with the insurance information and have undertaken efforts to
deprive Plaintiffs of their real estate leasehold possessory interest in the
premises upon which the Hamilton is located. 
On January 30, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,”
wherein Jing Qiu Kwok (“Kwok”) was named in lieu of Doe 1 and Winsome CPA, Inc. (“Winsome”) was named in lieu of
Doe 2.
On May 3, 2023, the court
sustained Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend. The same day, Gordes and LVGEM filed a Cross-Complaint
against Abhari, Shamloo and Xicheng Qian (“Qian”), and Roes 1-10 for
1.                 
Conversion (as to Abhari & Shamloo)
2.                 
Conversion (as to Qian)
3.                 
Money Had and Received (as to Abhari &
Shamloo)
4.                 
Money Had and Received (as to Qian)
5.                 
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
6.                 
Fraud in the Inducement
7.                 
Conspiracy to Defraud
8.                 
Unjust Enrichment (as to Abhari & Shamloo)
9.                 
Unjust Enrichment (as to Qian)
10.             
Violations of Business & Professions Code
Section 17200
11.             
Breach of Fiduciary Duties
12.             
Declaratory Relief (LVGEM)
13.             
Declaratory Relief (Gordes)
14.             
Declaratory Relief (LVGEM & Gordes)
15.             
Indemnification
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”), asserting causes of action against Gordes, LVGEM, Huang,
Kwok, Winsome, Marshall Brubacher (“Brubacher”), Mundell Odlum & Haws LLP
(“MO&H” and collectively with the others as “Defendants”), and Does 5-100
for:
1.                 
Breach of the
“Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
2.                 
Breach of the
“Security Agreement” Contract
3.                 
Breach of the
“Lease Agreement” Contract
4.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Asset
Purchase Agreement” Contract
5.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the
“Security Agreement” Contract
6.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Lease
Agreement” Contract
7.                 
Fraud in the
Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
8.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Inducing
Breach of Contract
10.             
Fraud by False
Promise
On August 28, 2023, the court sustained, without leave to
amend, the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tenth causes of action.
The court also granted Gordes, LVGEM and Huang’s motion to strike as to the
request for punitive damages. On December 18, 2024, the court sustained without
leave to amend, the demurrer to the seventh, eighth and ninth causes of action.
On October 6, 2023, the court granted Gordes’ LVGEM’s motion
for preliminary injunction in part and denied same in part.
On December 18, 2023, the court sustained Kwok and Winsome’s
and Brubacher and MO&H’s respective
demurrers to Plaintiffs’ SAC without leave to amend.
The Final Status Conference is set for November 5, 2024.
Trial is set for November 26, 2024.
Legal Standard
The rules
governing demurrers are generally applicable to a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d)
[“The grounds for motion. . . shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice. Where the motion is based on a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. . ., the matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or
in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may otherwise
permit”].)
A motion by a
plaintiff may only be made on the grounds “that the complaint states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant
may only be made on the grounds that (1) “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of
the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)
Although a
nonstatutory motion “may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at
the trial itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks and citation omitted]), a statutory
motion cannot be made after entry of a pretrial conference order or 30 days
before the initial trial date, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise
permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).)
Discussion
Shamloo moves the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 438 and the common law, for judgment on the pleadings in his favor and
against Gordes and LVGEM as to the first and third causes of action,
respectively, on the SAC.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court rules on Shamloo’s Request for Judicial Notice
(“RJN”) as follows:
1.                 
Granted as to Part I in its entirety; 
2.                 
Granted as to Nos. 1, 2, 8 and 9 of Part II and Denied
as to Nos. 3-7 and 10-11;
3.                 
Denied as to Nos. 1-3 of Part III; 
4.                 
Denied as to Nos. 1 and 2 of Part IV. “A court may take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, but can only
take judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted in documents such as
orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and judgments.” (Day v.
Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914 [internal quotations and citation
omitted].) Further, “[t]he burden is on the party seeking judicial notice to
provide sufficient information to allow the court to take judicial notice.” (Ross
v. Creel Printing & Publishing Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 736, 744.)
Evidentiary Objections
The court rules on Gordes’ and LVGEM’s (together,
“Defendants”) evidentiary objections as follows: Overruled as Moot as to Nos.
1-4.
Merits
Shamloo contends that he is entitled to judgment on the
pleadings as to the first cause of action against Gordes and as to the third
cause of action against LVGEM on the SAC. Shamloo asserts that the first and
third causes of action in the SAC state facts sufficient to constitute causes
of action and that Gordes’ and LVGEM’s First Amended Answer filed March 7, 2024
(“FAA”) is a “evasive, frivolous and/or a sham.” (Motion, 7:6-7).
Shamloo cites Oliver v. Swiss Club Tell (1963) 222
Cal.App.2d 528 (“Oliver”) for the proposition that “a denial in a
verified answer based upon the Defendant’s claimed lack of knowledge or
information is a sham denial if the verified Complaint’s factual allegation to
which the supposed lack of knowledge or information is asserted is
ascertainable by that Defendant, and the Complaint’s allegation will be deemed
admitted.” (Motion, 7:10-14). Shamloo asserts that Defendants’ statements in
Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the FAA (responding to Plaintiffs’ Paragraphs 3 and 4 of
the SAC that “Abhari/[Shamloo] is a Plaintiff herein, and at all times
relevant, Abhari/[Shamloo] has been a natural person residing in Los Angeles
County, California,” respectively) that they “lack knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of the allegations contained in
Paragraph 3/[4] of the SAC, and on that basis, deny those allegations,”
respectively are a sham.
Defendants, however, explain that their representation of
lack of information and belief “referred to the SAC’s allegations that
Plaintiffs resided in Los Angeles County.” (Opp., 4:24-25). Indeed, the only
place in the FAA where Defendants stated “[u]pon information and belief” is in
Paragraph 17 of the FAA, where they stated that “[u]pon information and belief,
a large portion of this amount ($151,750) was used to offset the months which
Plaintiff did not pay his monthly rent and share of net sales,” with allegations
supporting their information and belief also set forth in the same paragraph.
Shamloo next cites Beatty v. Pacific States S&L Co.
(1935) 4 Cal.App.2d 692 for the propositions that “a verified Answer’s failure
to expressly deny a verified Complaint’s factual allegations results in those
allegations being deemed admitted by the Defendant” (Motion, 7:16-20) and that
“a verified Answer’s self-contradicting denials. . . constitute the crime of
perjury (Id., 7:22-26). As to the latter proposition, Beatty states “that where the
truth of a fact is directly averred in any part of a verified complaint,
and in another part of the same pleading the same fact is directly controverted
or denied, the party verifying it is guilty of perjury; for both cannot be
true, and the averment which bears most strongly against the party so pleading
will be taken as true upon the trial.” (Id. at 697 [emphasis added]).
In this regard, Shamloo argues that since Gordes failed to
deny that Qian was a corporate secretary of LVGEM, so Gordes has admitted this
statement under Beatty. Gordes, however, expressly “denie[d] the
remaining allegations of Paragraph 13 of the SAC.” (FAA, 3:6). Shamloo then
asserts that Gordes committed perjury pursuant to Beatty because it made
a “false denial” in denying the remainder of the factual allegations of
Paragraph 13 when it admitted that Qian was a witness to certain events
relating to this lawsuit and that it entered into the Asset Purchase Agreement
and Security Agreement. Shamloo contends that Gordes’ statement that it did not
participate in any negotiations of discussions with Shamloo or Abhari with
respect to ay agreement to acquire ownership of Hamilton is contradicted by
Gordes’ statement in Paragraph 17 that it entered into the Asset Purchase
Agreement and the Security Agreement. Gordes, however, stated in Paragraph 13
that its representative Huang relied on his brother-in-law Qian’s false
representations regarding the alleged asset purchase agreement between Gordes
and Plaintiff (FAA, 3:8-10) and stated in Paragraph 16 that it entered into an
Asset Purchase Agreement and a Security Agreement with Plaintiff, where Huang,
on behalf of Gordes, signed the alleged Asset Purchase Agreement solely based
on Qian’s material misrepresentations” (Id., 3:22-25). Gordes’
representation that it did not participate in negotiations or discussions with
Shamloo and Abhari is consistent with Gordes’ statement that it entered into
the aforesaid agreements based on Qian’s material misrepresentations.
Shamloo argues that Huang committed perjury when stating that
LVGEM “denies that it entered into the Lease Agreement or any written lease
agreement with Plaintiff and/or ABHARI” (Id., 4:4-5), and references
Qian’s deposition testimony and the October 25, 2023 letter. The content of the
October 25, 2023 letter and Qian’s deposition testimony, however, are not
judicially noticeable. In Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604-605 the court determined that it would take “judicial
notice of records such as admissions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits,
and the like, when considering a demurrer, only where they contain
statements of the plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with the
allegations of the pleading before the court,” but cautioned that “[t]he
hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits,
declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of
the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations and
contentions of the plaintiff.” Further, “[a]lthough the existence of statements
contained in a deposition transcript filed as part of the court record can be
judicially noticed, their truth is not subject to judicial notice.” (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 22.)
Shamloo argues that Huang admits in his responses to form
interrogatories that “the money received by Gordes in exchange for Gordes
entering into the Asset Purchase Agreement, $151,700.00, did provide Shamloo
with the right to operate the HSH.” (Motion, 10:18-20). Huang, however,
responded therein that “[a]ccordingly, at most, the check for LVGEM for
$151,750.90 in June 2019 allowed ABHARI and SHAMLOO to begin operating the
Restaurant under their own auspices, not by using GORDES’s name and merchant
bank account(s)” and, within the same response, advised that this check was
payable to LVGEM only and for a rescinded stock purchase transaction.
Shamloo’s motion is denied.