 Case Number:  23PSCV00030    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND JIANG XU’S NOTICE OF
MOTION AND MOTION TO SEAL UNREDACTED MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS is GRANTED.
 
(2)  
UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.’S AND JIANG XU’S JOINT
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT is GRANTED. 
                                                                                                           
Background
 
This case
arises from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On January 5,
2023, Plaintiff FRANCISCO ROMERO filed suit against Defendants JIANG XU, an
individual; UBER TECHNOLOGIES INC., a Corporation; ANTONIO PEREZ, an individual
for negligence. (Plaintiff was the passenger in an Uber vehicle operated by
Defendant Xu when Defendant Xu’s and Perez’s vehicles collided.) 
 
On February
22, 2023, Uber filed its answer. 
 
On March 14,
2023, Defendant Perez filed his answer and a cross-complaint against Xu,
Romero, and Uber for indemnity (total and implied), declaratory relief, and
apportionment of fault. That same day, Xu filed his answer.
 
On September
21, 2023, Uber and Xu (collectively, “Uber Defendants”) filed the instant
motions.
 
On November 7,
2023, Uber Defendants filed a reply to both, indicating that no oppositions
(due 11/1) were received by either Plaintiff Romero or Defendant Perez.[1] 
 
 
Legal
Standard for Motion to Seal
 
A party that requests that a record
or portion of a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application
for an order sealing it, which must be accompanied by a supporting memorandum
and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing. (Cal.
Rules of Ct., Rule 2.551(b)(1).) A copy of the motion or application to seal
must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the judge
orders otherwise, any party that already has access to the records to be placed
under seal must be served with a complete, unredacted copy of all papers as
well as a redacted version. (Id., subd. (b)(2).) Other parties must be
served with only the public redacted version. The moving party must lodge the
record with the court when the motion or application is made, unless good cause
is shown for not lodging it or it has been lodged previously. The lodged record
is conditionally under seal pending the judge's determination of the motion or
application. (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.551(b)(4).) 
 
Here, the Settlement Agreement entered by the
Settling Parties contains a confidentiality clause restricting the disclosure
of information, including, but not limited to, the terms of the agreement,
settlement amount, and parties. (See Motion p. 6, citing Hinshaw, Winkler,
Draa, Marsh & Still v. Superior Court (1986) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 241
[confidential settlement agreements are afforded the same privacy protection as
a bank account or tax information].) The purpose is to protect the vested
interest of the settling parties in keeping their financial information
private. (See Motion p. 7, citing Carmel-bv-the-Sea v. Young (1970) 2 Cal.3d
259, 268 [Financial privacy concerns can be overriding interests that overcome
a right of public access.].) More specifically as to Uber, it regularly keeps
the terms and amounts they agree to pay in settlement confidential in order to
protect themselves in future settlement discussions with other parties during
pre-litigation and litigation processes. Otherwise, public disclosure of the
terms of the Settlement Agreement could prejudice the Uber Defendants’ ability
to negotiate specific provisions in other future settlement agreements. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the court grants Uber Defendants’
unopposed motion.  
 
Legal Standard for Good Faith Settlement (GFS)
 
Under section 877.6 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure,[2] “[a] determination by the court that [a] settlement was
made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) “The party
asserting the lack of good faith has the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)  
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement]
agreements made under its aegis to insure
that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s dual objectives”
(i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the parties at fault” and
encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of settlement). (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (Tech-Bilt).)

 
In Tech-Bilt, the California Supreme Court set forth the
factors to consider when determining whether a settlement was made in good
faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are: 
 
(1) A rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; 
(2) The
amount paid in settlement; 
(3) The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;
(4) A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; 
(5) The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and 
(6) The
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants.
 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 498-501.)
 
Discussion 
 
Mindful that the financial terms of the agreement are
confidential, the court will provide a vague analysis. 
 
In cases involving multiple tortfeasors, the common-law
principle that each tortfeasor is personally liable for any indivisible injury
of which is or her negligence is a proximate cause has commonly been expressed
terms of “joint and several liability,” which is central to California
negligence law. Under joint and several liability, each tortfeasor whose
negligence is a proximate cause of an indivisible injury remains individually
liable for all compensable damages attributable to that injury. (Aidan Ming-Ho
Leung v. Verdugo Hills Hosp. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 291.) Whether
individuals are "joint tortfeasors” depends upon whether they caused one
indivisible injury or the same wrong; the "same wrong" may emanate
from two successive independent torts and does not require unity of purpose,
action, or intent by the two or more tortfeasors. (In re JTS Corp. (2010)
617 F.3d 1102, 1116-1117. Put simply, a plaintiff need only claim that the
tortfeasors caused the same harm. (Id. at p. 1117, citing Lafayette
v. County of Los Angeles (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 547, 555-556.) 
 
As for economic damages (e.g., medical expenses, loss of
earnings, loss of use of property, etc.), liability is held by each defendant, provided
that the plaintiff recovers only once for the full amount. (See Restatement (Second) of Torts § 875 (1977).) On the
other hand, for noneconomic damages, Section 1431.2 provides that the liability of
each defendant “shall be several only and shall not be joint. Each defendant
shall be liable only for the amount of non-economic damages allocated to that
defendant in direct proportion to that defendant’s percentage of fault, and a
separate judgment shall be rendered against the defendant for that amount.”
(Motion p. 5, quoting Cal. Code of Civ. Proc., §1431.2.)
 
Here, though only portion of the Uber Defendant’s settlement
proceeds will be attributed to non-economic damages, the Defendants’ settlement
with Plaintiff more than accounts for their several obligation to Plaintiff’s
non-economic damages since the settlement covers more than two times
Plaintiff’s past economic damages. (Motion pp. 5-6.) Thus, though
the purpose of GFS motions is to encourage settlements—which may entail a
settling defendant to pay less than his proportionate share of the anticipated
damages (Abbott Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858,
874-875)—here, Uber Defendants’ payment of more than its share of
economic damages suggests that the settlement was made in good faith. 
 
To the extent that the settlement
is so far “out of the ballpark,” Defendant Perez has not filed an opposition. (City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[C]onclude that
only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent
upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors.
That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the
ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief
background of the case is sufficient.”].) 
 
With that, as a GFS motion does not require perfect or even
nearly perfect apportionment of liability but rather that the settlement not be
grossly disproportionate to the settlor’s fair share and moving Defendants have
made that showing, the court grants the motion. (Motion p. 4, citing Abbott
Ford, Inc., supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 874-875).  
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the GFS between Plaintiff and Uber
Defendants is granted. 


