


[1] Eva is Noah’s
biological great-grandmother. AC is Noah’s biological sister, who is currently
five years old. EC is Noah’s biological brother and is currently ten years old.
RC’s, who is three years old, was Noah’s unborn sibling at the time of his
death. AC, EC, and RC will collectively be referred to as the “Minor
Plaintiffs.” 
 


[2] Hathaway is a mental
health and welfare agency that provides behavioral services to dependent
minors. The County and Hathaway have a contract wherein Hathaway promises to
provide psychological counseling and family support services for consumers
referred by the County.  
 


[3] Based on a review of
the court’s ruling on the MJOP, the motion was granted as to the 2nd
COA because the third amended complaint did not allege facts sufficient to show
a statutory mandatory duty to warn that the County owed to Eva, nor did it
allege a proper special relationship that would give way for a duty to warn
Eva. 


[4] The court
acknowledges that some allegations do implicitly allege vicarious liability.
(See e.g., ¶113 [“¶For this
independent reason, Johnson had a duty to notify EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ of the
application and removal order.”].) This lack of clarity between direct and
vicarious liability perhaps ties into the County’s motion to strike certain
allegations as to the issue of a special
relationship. (MTS p. 8.) 
 


[5] As for the June 18,
2019 Structured Decision Making (“SDM”) assessment, that indicated the risk of
danger to Noah was “very high.” Thus, as the SDM appears to further corroborate
the abuse to Noah, it is unclear how “this DCFS caseworker did not actually
review Noah’s file.” (¶83.) Said
differently, if the SDM reported that there was a low risk to Noah, then
the allegation that the CSW did not review Noah’s file would make more sense as
his file seemingly showed numerous instances of high risk to Noah’s health and
safety.  
 


[6] Plaintiffs cite to
Civil Code 1714 as a statutory basis for liability. (¶108.) Civil Code 1714 provides for a duty of ordinary care.
However, as noted by Eastburn and as noted by the County in Reply, section
1714 is an insufficient statutory basis for imposing direct liability on public
agencies. (Reply p. 5.) 
 


[7] Plaintiffs did not
provide an analysis of the three-pronged test.     


[8] Perhaps a point conceded by the 6AC. (See 6AC
p. 41:20-24 [“The original complaint is based on the County’s failure
to protect Noah and to leave him in danger of abuse by his parents. This
[COA] is based on the County’s failure to protect Noah’s siblings
….”], emphasis added.) Thus, whereas the original complaint was about Noah,
now, the amended complaints (5AC and 6AC) involve more than just Noah’s abuse. 


[9] The court will address the passages sought to be
stricken as presented in the “headers” (Headers A through D). 
 


[10] The 6AC itself identifies paragraphs 89-95 as facts
related to the Minor Plaintiffs’ Claims. (See Complaint p. 18:20-21.) 


[11] Header C indicates that the County seeks to strike
paragraphs 120-135, but that appears to be a mistake as only paragraphs 120-125
discuss what occurred on the day of Noah’s death. Plus, the notice of the
motion does not seek to strike paragraphs beyond 125 (aside from paragraph
175). (See Motion p. 3.) 

