  Case Number:  20STCV24771    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is OVERRULED in part (i.e., 2nd
COA because Plaintiffs have pled a mandatory duty (policy to notify a
relative)) and SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to 8th COA). Leave
to amend is TBD as to the 8th COA—the court request supplemental
briefing. 
 
(2)  
DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION TO STRIKE
PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part and TBD in part. 
 
The court continues the hearing Monday,
January 8, 2023 at 10 AM. Plaintiffs are to provide their supplemental brief by
Thursday, November 30, 2023 and the County is to provide its supplemental brief
by Friday, December 15, 2023. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from the death of NOAH CUATRO (“Noah”).
Plaintiffs EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ (“Eva”), individually and as Successor in
Interest to the Estate of NOAH CUATRO; A.C. (“AC”), a minor, by and through her
Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina Hernandez; E.C. (“EC”), a minor, by and through
his Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina Hernandez; R.C. (“RC”), a minor, by and
through his Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina Hernandez[1]
allege the following against Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”) and
HATHAWAY-SYCAMORES CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES (“Hathaway-Sycamores” or
“Hathaway”)[2]: On July
6, 2019, Noah was murdered by his parents, both of whom are awaiting trial. Noah’s death occurred after multiple reports
of abuse and torture had been made to the Los Angeles County
Department of Children and Family Services ("DCFS"). The allegations against Hathaway
are predicated upon vicarious liability (retaining an unlicensed trainee (Erika
Schreefel (“Schreefel”)) who did not communicate accurate information to the
dependency court (DC) that created the misimpression that Noah and his parents
were progressing towards reunification when in fact the family problems
remained the same or worsened during this time frame) and independent
negligence for its failure to supervise an unlicensed trainee. As for the County’s liability, it is
predicated upon DCFS’s alleged breaches of various duties.  
 
On July 1, 2020, Plaintiffs
filed the action. 
 
On March 12, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their first amended complaint.
 
On June 24, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their second amended complaint. 
 
On September 20, 2021,
Plaintiffs filed their third amended complaint. 
 
On January 14, 2022, the court
issued its final ruling which sustained without leave to amend Hathaway’s
demurrer. 
 
On October 27, 2022, the court
granted the County’s motion for judgment on the pleadings (MJOP) with leave to
amend.[3] 
 
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed their fourth amended complaint. 
 
On March 14, 2023, the
appellate court issued its opinion regarding Hathaway’s demurrer, reversing the
trial court’s ruling. 
 
On April 27, 2023, the court
granted Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file an amended complaint. 
 
On May 10, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their fifth amended complaint (5AC) alleging eight causes of action (COA)
for: 
 
1.     Wrongful death (Minor Plaintiffs v. County)
2.     Negligence (Eva v. County)
3.     Wrongful Death (Negligent retention and
supervision) (Eva and Minor Plaintiffs v. County and Hathaway)
4.     Wrongful death (negligence) (Minor Plaintiffs
v. Hathaway)
5.     Survival action (negligence) (Minor Plaintiffs
v. Hathaway)
6.     Survival action (negligence) (Minor Plaintiffs
v. County)
7.     Wrongful death (negligence) (Minor Plaintiffs
v. Doe Defendants)
8.     Negligence (Minor Plaintiffs v. County)
 
On June 26, 2023, the County
filed a demurrer to the 5AC, which the court sustained with leave to amend and
determined the MTS was moot. 
 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their sixth amended complaint (6AC).
 
On September 25, 2023, the
County filed the instant demurrer and MTS. 
 
On September 25, 2023, Hathaway
filed its answer. 
 
On October 23, 2023, Mark
A. Weinstein, Esq, of Veatch Carlson, LLP filed a notice of dissociation
indicating he is no longer the attorney of record for Defendant County.
 
On November 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. 
 
On November 7, 2023, Defendant County filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer, in pertinent part, may be asserted when the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§430.10 subds. (e).) Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the
pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Lastly, CCP
section 430.41 requires the parties to meet and confer before the filing of a
demurrer.
Demurrer
 
The County again demurs
to the 2nd COA for Negligence (Failure to Notify) and 8th
COA for Negligence on the grounds that both fail to state sufficient facts to
state COA for negligence. To the extent a minimal discussion of certain rules is
provided, the court directs the parties to the court’s 7/20/23 ruling
(regarding County’s demurrer to the 5AC). 
 
I.               
2nd COA for Negligence/Failure to Warn (Eva v. County)  
 
As discussed in the court’s 7/20/23 ruling, there are two
ways in which a public entity may be liable: (i) vicarious liability and (ii)
direct liability. (Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th
1112, 1127-1128.) “The Tort Claims Act draws a clear distinction between the
liability of a public entity based on its own conduct, and the liability
arising from the conduct of a public employee. Although the Act provides that
a public employee generally is liable for an injury
caused by his or her act or omission ‘to the same extent as a private person’ (Gov.Code, §
820, subd. (a)) and that, when the act or omission of the public employee
occurs in the scope of employment the public entity will be vicariously liable
for the injury (Gov.Code, §
815.2), the Act contains no provision
similarly providing that a public entity generally
is liable for its own conduct or omission to the same extent as a private
person or entity. Rather, the Act provides that a public entity is not liable
for an injury ‘[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute....’” (Ibid.) 
 
A.    
Direct vs. Vicarious Liability 
 
Unlike the basis for Hathaway’s liability which is
explicitly predicated upon vicarious liability for Schreefel’s negligence (¶63), vicarious liability is not
expressly alleged in the 6AC. Rather, the 6AC appears to be largely predicated upon direct
liability.[4] Take for
example, the following allegations:
 
-       
“In reliance on Ms. Schreefel’s negligent
opinion, the dependency court, over the objection of DCFS, decided Noah
should be returned to his parents. Ms. Schreefel’s negligent opinion and
HATHAWAY-SYCAMORES’ negligent failure to communicate fully, clearly, and
accurately with the dependency court were substantial factors in the Court’s
November 1, 2018, decision to return Noah.” (¶53, emphasis added)
-       
"On November 6, 2018, Ms. Schreefel spoke
with Noah’s social worker, who said that DCFS wanted Noah to be placed
with [Eva].” (¶57, emphasis added)
-       
“In reliance on Ms. Schreefel’s negligently
wrong conclusion, the dependency court, over the objection of DCFS,
ordered Noah to be returned to his parents on an extended visitation until a
further hearing on November 9, 2018.” (¶67, emphasis added)
-       
“On or about May 15, 2019, a DCFS caseworker,
Susan Johnson, filed a 26-page petition to remove Noah from his parents’
custody . . . However, although this petition was granted, it was willfully
ignored by DCFS.” (¶79, emphasis added)
-       
“[T]he May 15, 2019 Order mandated Noah’s
removal from his parents’ custody also mandated a medical and/or sexual abuse
examination … DCFS willfully ignored this order and the examination
never took place.” (¶80, emphasis added.)[5] 
 
In sum, the allegations are that DCFS’s social workers knew
of the ongoing abuse to Noah, made objections to the dependency court (DC),
and made petitions to remove Noah from his parents’ custody (May 15, 2019
petition ¶117 and Susan Johnson’s
26-page petition ¶79), but that, ultimately, DCFS “ignore[d]
the dependency court’s removal order and order for a forensic sexual abuse
exam.” (¶116, emphasis added.) 
 
With that, the court will first
focus on whether Plaintiffs have alleged that the County is directly liability
for the alleged failure to notify Eva of certain proceedings/actions. (See also
Opp. p. 9:25-27 [“The County is liable for its failure to
notify Eva of its own first party decision not to execute the warrant even
after the dependency court determined Noah was in danger. Eva’s claim is not
for failure to warn as much as failure to notify.”], italics added.) 
 
B.     Direct Liability via the County’s Alleged
Violation of Its Own Policy 
 
Direct liability “requires identification of a ‘specific
statute declaring [the entity] to be liable, or at least creating some
specific duty of care[6]
[by the agency in favor of the injured party], and not on the general tort
provisions of Civil Code section 1714.’” (de
Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 238, 252, quoting Eastburn
v. Regional Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183; see also Davidson
v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 203 [“[A] duty may arise … if
‘(a) a special relation exists between the actor and the third person which
imposes a duty upon the actor to control the third person's conduct, or (b) a
special relation exists between the actor and the other which gives the other a
right to protection.’”].) Additionally, “[a] public entity may be directly liable for failure to
discharge a mandatory duty.” (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 627, 637.) “Where a public entity is under a
mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the
risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury
of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the
public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge
the duty.” (Id, at pp. 637-638, quoting Gov. Code, § 815.6.) 
 
Here, the 6AC alleges that DCFS policy required social
workers to notify Eva that DCFS was petitioning the DC to remove Noah from his
parents because Noah was in danger, that the petition was granted, and that
DCFS decided not to execute the warrant and to leave Noah in danger. (See
e.g., 6AC ¶117 [list of
alleged breaches].) According to Plaintiffs’ case citation, a policy created
by a public entity is the equivalent of a regulation and is required to be
followed. (Opp p. 9, citing County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 627, 639.) Indeed, a mandatory duty exists if it
requires a public agency to take particular action. 
 
“Government Code [section] 815.6 contains a
three-pronged test for determining whether liability may be imposed on a public
entity: (1) an enactment must impose a mandatory, not discretionary, duty ...;
(2) the enactment must intend to protect against the kind of risk of injury
suffered by the party asserting section 815.6 as a basis for liability ...;
and (3) breach of the mandatory duty must be a proximate cause of the injury
suffered.’ [Citation.] Whether an enactment is intended to impose a
mandatory duty is a question of law for the court.” (Id. at pp. 638-639,
quoting Becerra v. County of Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450,
1457.)[7]

 
Prong No. 1
 
As to the first prong—wherein the application of [Government Code] section 815.6 requires
that the enactment at issue be obligatory, rather than merely discretionary or permissive,
in its directions to the public entity—DCFS policy required the
Children’s Social Worker (CSW) applying for the removal order to notify parents
or relatives, like [Eva], who previously had custody of the child who is the
subject of the petition. 
 
Specifically, the allegation, found in ¶106, is as follows:
 
[A] former DCFS CSW testified that in
May 2019 DCFS policy required the CSW applying for the removal order to notify
parents or relatives, like [Eva], who previously had custody of the child who
is the subject of the petition. Ms. Hernandez Aviles testified, ‘That’s the norm
usually. When there is a warrant being served, we notify parents and if they
had a previous placement that they were thriving in.’ [citation omitted]. Ms.
Hernandez Aviles further testified that [Eva] should have been notified of the
application for removal of Noah.”].) 
 
Therefore, as Plaintiffs have alleged that there was a mandatory
policy (“DCFS policy required the CSW applying for the removal order to
notify parents or relatives”), then this prong is satisfied. 
 
Prong No. 2 
 
As to the second prong—wherein a plaintiff must show the injury is “one
of the consequences which the [enacting body] sought to prevent through
imposing the alleged mandatory duty”—that is somewhat alleged. The
purpose behind the notification requirement is to seemingly place the
child in a non-abusive household and to have the new caregiver involved in the
process. 
 
Therefore, for purposes of a demurrer, the court deems this
prong satisfied. 
 
Prong No. 3
 
As to third prong—causation—Plaintiffs allege that the
failure to notify Eva left Noah with his dangerous and abusive parents,
ultimately causing his death. (¶¶118, 119; see also ¶115 [“Had [Eva] informed the
dependency court and hired an attorney to protect her rights and those of
Noah’s. DCFS robbed [Eva] the opportunity to protect her rights and those of
Noah’s, leading to his death. DCFS is blameworthy because it showed a callous
disregard for [Eva] special relationship including her visitation rights and
duties as the caregiver.”].) 
 
Therefore, the third and final
prong is satisfied. 
 
Accordingly, Eva has
sufficiently alleged direct liability against the County based upon the
County’s purported to abide by its mandatory duty to notify a relative (here,
Eva).

 
i.                
County’s Arguments that DCFS Policies are
Not Regulations for Purposes of Mandatory Duty Law 
 
First, to the extent that the County explains Plaintiffs’ case
citations to Peterson v City of Long Beach (1979) 24 Cal.3d 238 and Lehto
v. City of Oxnard (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 285 are inapposite because the
passage of Evidence Code section 669.1—which holds that a public entity policy
is not considered a regulation unless it has been formally adopted as a
statute, an ordinance, or a regulation (Demurrer p. 12, see also Reply p. 5)—County of Los
Angeles, supra, 102 Cal.App.4th 627 does not turn on Evidence Code
section 669.1. Therefore, even assuming section 669.1 shows an intent to
vitiate Peterson’s holding (which held that a public entity’s policy is
the equivalent of a regulation for mandatory duty purposes), Plaintiffs have
provided otherwise valid, binding, and instructive authority. The County,
however, does not address the County of Los Angeles case.
 
Second, to the extent that the
County argues Thompson v. County of Los Angeles (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th
376, 380–381 controls because Eva does not allege any violation of a
nondiscretionary duty or a regulation (Reply p. 5:10-11), the May 2019
testimony of the CSW provides that the notification requirement was mandatory. 
 
In Thompson, the plaintiff
argued that the county violated its duty to make necessary collateral contacts
by not speaking to the child’s doctor. The
provision came from the state's Child Welfare Services Manual of Policies and
Procedure. (Id. at p. 380.) The Thompson court determined that
the “collateral contacts provision gives social workers discretion to determine
which contacts are necessary. As a matter of law, it does not create a
mandatory duty.” (Id. at p. 382.) 
The court reasoned the provision was discretionary rather than mandatory
because “the universe of people with ‘knowledge’ of a child's ‘condition’ is
vast. It could include a child's parents, siblings, grandparents, aunts,
uncles, cousins, school bus drivers, teachers, principals, school nurses,
classmates, friends, friends’ parents, neighbors, police officers, doctors, and
dentists, to name a few.” (Id. at p. 381).
 
Here, however, parents or relatives who
previously had custody of the child would be far limited in scope (i.e., only
Noah’s parents or Eva).  
 
Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a mandatory duty. 
 
Therefore,
as the 2nd COA does state a mandatory duty, which is sufficient to
allege facts of negligence, the demurrer as to the 2nd COA is
OVERRULED. The court need not address whether a special relationship existed
between the County’s employees and Eva (but see Motion to Strike below).
 
1.    
8th COA for Negligence (Minor
Plaintiffs v. County) 
 
Previously, in response to the County’s arguments that (1) Minor
Plaintiffs are barred from asserting any claims because they failed to assert
claims within six months of claims rejection(s) and (2) the COA is time barred
because it does not relate back to the original complaint, the court
observed that Minor Plaintiffs’ “Government Tort Claims indicated that they
were aware of sufficient facts to plead a cause of negligence against the
County based on their own abuse as early as December 2019.” (See July 20, 2023
Ruling.) As for the relation back doctrine, the court
determined that “the factual allegations in the previous complaints
related to the death of Noah” such that there was no relation to the now asserted Minor Plaintiffs’ relief
for “harm directly inflicted upon them by their parents.” (Ibid.)[8] “In
effect, even if the same parties are involved (parents as the
perpetrators and the County/DCFS) and the same period is involved, the
same facts (i.e., facts of abuse to Minor Plaintiffs) are not involved
such that it sounds as its own separate action.” (Ibid.) 
 
In sum, the court ruled that the 8th
COA for negligence asserted by the Minor Plaintiffs is both time-barred because
they (1) filed claims based upon their own claims more than 6
months after rejection of their Government Tort Claims and/or (2) the statute
of limitations (SOL) expired because the negligence COA was asserted more than
two years after the alleged negligence.  
 
Now, though the court granted leave to amend, the 8th
COA does not assert new facts. Rather, as noted by the County, Minor Plaintiffs
have instead asserted legal arguments in their 6AC as to why the 8th
COA is timely. 
 
Under section 911.2 of the Government Claims Act,
before filing a lawsuit against a public entity, a plaintiff must present
the claim to the public entity within six months of the date the
claim accrues. (Gov. Code, §
911.2, subd. (a); see also Shirk v. Vista (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201,
208-209.) Generally, the
claim for negligence accrues during the last act of abuse. (Id. at
p. 210.) This is notably so as Minor Plaintiffs’ negligence COA is based upon
the “physical and mental pain and suffering.” (6AC p. 38.) 
 
Here, the last possible date that the Minor
Plaintiffs were allegedly abused would have been the date that they were
removed from their parents’ care. Plaintiffs, however, have not provided this
date. Plaintiffs merely allege that Eva briefly got custody of the children
sometime in 2022. (¶175(d)(3)). But
when were the children removed from their home? Was it sometime after Noah
died? Or was it sometime when the parents were indicted? This date of the last act of
abuse is imperative as the lawsuit must have been filed six months from that
date. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiffs argue that equitable tolling applies, equitable tolling does not
save the sixth months claims presentation requirement. (See Willis v.
City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1121.) This is because equitable
tolling is a judicially created doctrine applicable to the SOL, but the SOL is
not the equivalent to the claims presentation requirement. In fact, the latter
is an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. (See Shirk, supra, 42
Cal.4th at p. 209.) With that, while a SOL defect must clearly appear on
the face of the complaint, here, the claims presentation requirement, as element
of the COA, must be sufficiently pled. Plaintiffs, however, have not
sufficiently pled the element. 
 
Tolling Until Minor Plaintiffs Turn 18
 
Plaintiffs allege and argue that the lawsuit is tolled until
the minor Plaintiffs turn 18. However, as noted in demurrer and not discussed
in opposition, subdivision (b) of section 352 provides that section 352 “shall
not apply to an action against a public entity or public employee upon a cause
of action for which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with” the
Government Claims Act.” The statute’s tolling provision therefore does not
apply in this suit against the County and its employees. (See County of Los
Angeles v. Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 1263, 1270.) (Demurrer p.
18.) 
 
Therefore, tolling does not apply. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is OVERRULED in part
(i.e., as to 2nd COA) and SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to 8th
COA). Though based on the facts offered by the 6AC the negligence COA appears
timed barred as Plaintiffs did not comply the claims presentation requirement,
the court asks for supplemental briefing (rather than leave to amend), to
present sufficient facts as to the issue. 
 
Motion to Strike[9]
 
A.    Re:
“General Allegations” in Paragraphs 89-95 Relating Solely to minor Plaintiffs’ 8th
COA Must be Stricken as Irrelevant
 
The County avers that without the Minor Plaintiffs’
negligence COA, allegations about the Minor Plaintiffs’ alleged claims of abuse
are unrelated to the lawsuit (i.e., immaterial), and thus may be stricken.[10] 
 
This is TBD pending supplemental briefing, but likely
granted should the court sustain the 8th COA without leave to amend.

 
B.   
Re: Eva Hernandez’ Allegations in Support of Her 2nd
COA Are Irrelevant and Improper
 
The County seeks to strike certain allegations in the 2nd
COA because no mandatory duty existed. 
 
However, based on the court’s determination, a mandatory
duty has sufficiently been alleged. Therefore, this request is DENIED
as to Paragraphs 103-09. 
 
As for paragraph 110, which alleges a special relationship,
the court did not reach the issue on demurrer. That said, as a matter of law, a
special relationship would not exist between County and Eva. 
 
As explained by the County, the County itself cannot be held
to be in a special relationship with a member of the public that requires the
County to warn or protect that person. (Demurrer pp. 11-12, citing Zelig v.
County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal. 4th 1112, 1130–1131. A public entity
does not “become liable to each individual for all foreseeable harm.” (Id.
at 1131.) Rather, a county can be held liable through respondent superior for
an employee’s breach of duty. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, however,
the allegations regarding special relationship do not appear to be based upon
the relationship between a County employee and Eva but rather the County
and Eva. (See Complaint ¶110.) To the extent that Plaintiffs in opposition aver Zelig is
inapposite (Opp. p. 9:23-27), the court is admittedly not entirely certain as
to Plaintiffs’ explanation. If anything, the explanation evidences lack of a special
relationship as Plaintiffs maintain the relationship is between the County and
Eva, not an employee and Eva. Though the court previously granted leave to
amend the facts for clarity, the court once again provides it. 
 
Therefore, the requested is GRANTED
as to allegations regarding a special relationship, with leave to amend.

 
C.   
Re: Allegations Relating to the Conduct of Noah’s
Parents After His Death (Paragraphs 120-125)[11]
Must be Stricken in their Entirety as They Are Irrelevant to the Present
Action.
 
The County avers these statements are wholly unrelated and
improper, serving no purpose but to add inflammatory, misconstrued, irrelevant
allegations. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs explain that these allegations
“lay out ongoing abuses committed against minor plaintiffs that County social
workers failed to discover through the years of alleged investigations
conducted by County employees.” (Opp. p. 7.)
 
Here, though the court understands Plaintiffs’ position in
that the facts demonstrate the emotional impact on Eva (“facts
demonstrate the consequences of County’s breaches to all plaintiffs” (Opp. p.
9)), the consequences are
immaterial for purposes of the negligence COA. As noted by the County in
reply, the only facts relevant to Noah’s death are whether the County’s
purported breach(es) caused Noah’s death. As the facts regarding Noah’s
July 5, 2019 death do not pertain to a duty, a breach, causation, and damages,
the facts are irrelevant. An irrelevant allegation is one that is “not
essential to the statement of claim or defense” or pertinent to a claim or
defense. (MTS, p. 6, citing Code of Civ. Proc., section 431.10(b), (c).)  Pursuant to CCP section 435(a), the court may
strike irrelevant language in a pleading. 
 
Therefore, as the paragraphs are irrelevant, the court GRANTS
the MTS as to Paragraphs 120-125, with leave to amend. 
 
D.   
Re: Paragraph 175(d) and its Numerous Subparts Contain
Improper Legal Arguments That Must be Stricken If the Eighth Cause of Action
Survives County’s Concurrently Filed Demurrer
 
TBD pending supplemental briefing, but likely granted
without leave to amend should the court sustain the 8th COA. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the MTS is granted in part and
denied in part and TBD in part. 

 

 
 


