  Case Number:  23SMCV00668    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 3, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00668




MOTION


Demurrer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants The Lawman Group, APC and
  Shahin Gozarkhah




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants and Cross-Complainants California Lawyers
  Group, Inc. and Mitra Chegini



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute over the allocation of attorneys’ fees
between two law firms that worked on a personal injury lawsuit.  On February 14, 2023, Plaintiffs and
Cross-Defendants The Lawman Group, APC and Shahin Gozarkhah
(“Cross-Defendants”) filed suit against Defendants and Cross-Complainants
California Lawyers Group, Inc. and Mitra Chegini (“Cross-Complainants”) for breach
of contract, common counts, compensation for legal services, and declaratory
relief, alleging Cross-Defendants did most of the work on the client’s case,
yet Cross-Complainants, who took over legal representation at the end of the
case, refuse to pay Cross-Defendants’ appropriate share of the attorneys’ fees.
 
Cross-Complainants brought a cross-complaint for intentional
interference with economic advantage and unfair business practices, alleging that
Cross-Defendants “attempted to complete filings and update information online”
on behalf of Cross-Complainants, refused to provide authorization for
Cross-Complainants to endorse and deposit the settlement check, threatened litigation
and demanded money, asserted a lien, and filed the instant litigation.  (Cross-complaint ¶¶ 18, 24.)
 
Cross-Defendants demur to both causes of action in the
cross-complaint, on the basis that each fails to state a cause of action pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Cross-Complainants have opposed the demurrer.  No reply was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
STATEMENT OF DEMURRERS
 
Cross-Complainants contend that Cross-Defendants’ Demurrers are
deficient because there is no statement of demurrers which cites to the
applicable statute allowing for a demurrer. 
(Opp. at p. 3.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(a) requires, “Each ground of
demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and must state whether it applies to
the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to be specified causes of
action or defenses.”
 
On August 3, Cross-Defendants originally filed a combined Notice of
Demurrer and Demurrer, attached to the memorandum of points and authorities.  The top of the page noticed the hearing for
September 13.  The following language
appeared at the bottom of the page:
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
            
1. The FIRST cause of action for “Intentional
Interference With Economic Advantage” fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action as against Cross-Defendants.  Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e).
 
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
 
2. The SECOND cause of action for “Unfair
Business Practices Pursuant to Section 17200 of California Business and
Professions Code” fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action as against Cross-Defendants.  Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e).
 
This language satisfies the requirements
of Rule 3.1320(a).
 
On August 8, Cross-Defendants filed a Revised Notice of Demurrer,
rescheduling the date of the hearing to October 3.  That Revised notice states:
 
This NOTICE supersedes and replaces the
previous notice for this hearing that was originally scheduled for 9/13/23,
but whose original date has now been vacated at the request of Cross-Defendants
due to the Notice of Unavailability of Counsel filed by MITRA CHEGINI on behalf
of Cross-Complainants on July 25, 2023.
 
Although it may be
slightly confusing, because of the fact that the prior notice and statement of
demurrers were combined on the same page, the Court interprets this statement
as replacing the prior Notice of hearing only, represented by the top portion
of the prior filing.  Cross-Defendants
were changing the hearing date, not the grounds for the demurrers.  As such, there was no need to re-assert the
statement of demurrers already asserted.
 
Therefore, the Court
finds that the statement of demurrers, which appeared on the same page as the
original notice, satisfies the procedural requirements.
 
2.     
DEMURRERS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
FIRST CAUSE
OF ACTION – INTENTIONAL INTERFERENCE WITH ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: (1) the existence between plaintiff and a
third party of an economic relationship with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual
disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant’s action.  (Roy Allan Slurry
Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)
 
With respect to the first element, Cross-complainants have alleged
that the client, Alireza Daneshi (“Daneshi”) was dissatisfied with
Cross-defendants’ legal services, and retained Cross-complainants to take over
the case.  (Cross-complaint ¶ 9.)  With respect to the second element,
Cross-complainants have alleged that Cross-defendants knew about the new
representation, because Cross-defendants received a notice of substitution of
attorney and responded by asserting a lien for their own legal fees.  (Ibid.)  
 
As for the third element, the wrongful acts Cross-complainants allege Cross-defendants
committed are (1) attempting to access Cross-complainants’ business account,
complete filings, and update information through the Secretary of State’s
website; (2) failing to authorize Cross-complainants to endorse and deposit the
$240,000 settlement check until Cross-complainants agreed to pay
Cross-defendants $81,000 in fees; (3) sending letters to Cross-complainants
threatening litigation and demanding money; (4) asserting a lien for $81,000; and
(5) filing the instant lawsuit.  (See
Cross-complaint ¶¶ 16-19.)  
 
With respect to the fourth element, Cross-complainants allege:  “Cross-Complainants further allege,
Cross-Defendants engaged in such intentional acts which acts were and are
designed to disrupt Cross-Complainants' relationship with their clients by
engaging Cross-Complainants in the task of defending and prosecuting Cross-Defendants'
frivolous and vindictive claim, which efforts have and will continue to
diminish and disrupt Cross-Complainants' ability to provide legal services to
their clients in an affective and timely manner.”  
 
As for the fifth element, Cross-complainants allege Cross-Complainants
allege “as a direct and proximate result of Cross-Defendants' intentional
interference with Cross-Complainants' business relationship with it clients,
Cross-Complainants have incurred compensatory damages in sum according to proof
at trial.”  
 
B.    
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION – UNFAIR BUSINESS
PRACTICES
 
To bring a claim for unlawful
business practices, a plaintiff must show either an unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business act or practice.  (Adhav
v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970.)  “[A]n ‘unfair’ business practice occurs when
it offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral,
unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 184.)  “Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited
to injunctive relief and restitution” and “may not receive damages […] or
attorney fees.”  (Id. at p. 179.)
 
Here, Cross-complaints allege
in pertinent part:
 
·        
Cross-Complainants
allege that on or about December 28, 2022, GREG BYBERG, counsel for
Cross-Defendants, attempted to complete filings and update information online
for CLG. The web user access was denied. Information of companies registered
with California Secretary of State, for limited purposes, is public record.
However, requesting access to complete filings and update private information
of a company is not accessible to the public. [Exhibit "A" attached
hereto is the true and correct copy of GREG BYBERG's unsuccessful attempt to
gain access to CLG's private records with California Secretary of State].
[Exhibit "B" attached hereto is a true and correct copy of denial of
requesting access]. 
 
·        
Cross-Complainants
allege that Cross-Defendants, jointly and severally, engaged in the following
wrongful business practices in violation of Section 17200 of the California
Business and Profession Code: A) Not providing authorization to endorse and
deposit the original settlement draft of $240,000.00 and therefore creating
extensive delay for Cross-Complainant to receive its undisputed amount of
attorney fee earned; B) Not providing authorization to endorse and deposit the
original settlement draft of $240,000.00, A plan to directly and intentionally
interfere with Cross-Complainants legal obligation to pay DANESHI'S portion and
medical providers portion in a timely manner with no delay; C) Sending letters
to Cross-Complainant threatening litigation and demanding unwarranted amount of
money; D) By asserting an unjustifiable and baseless amount of $ 81,000.00,
once again preventing Cross-Complainant fi.om receiving their earned attorney
fees; E) Bringing the instant action against Cross-Complainants when the issue
of the division of attorney fee could have been very easily and without
consuming the Court's time be referred to fee dispute arbitration; F) Requesting
access to CLG's private corporate documents to complete filings/update
information causing Cross-Complainant to spend less time working on the
clients' matters and instead spending additional time in taking preventive
measurements to assure all future requests by Cross-Defendants and/or their
attorney of record be denied.
 
·        
Cross-Complainants
allege that the above business practices were, and are, intentional, unfair,
and unlawful business practices. Nevertheless Cross-Defendants performed the
intentional acts as stated in paragraphs 23 and 24 of this Cross-Complaint with
the sole intention to wrongfully and unlawfully undermine Cross-Complainants’ law
practice and business. 
 
·        
Cross-Complainants
allege that as a direct and proximate result of the above described unfair,
intentional and unlawful business practices committed directly either by Cross-Defendants
themselves or through their counsel of record, GREG BYBERG, Cross-Complainants
have incurred compensatory damages in a sum according to proof at the time of
trial, and are entitled to Section 17203 of California Business and Profession
code to have any person who engages, has engaged or proposes to engage in
unfair competition to be enjoined in any Court of competent jurisdiction.
Cross-Complainants hereby request that this Court make such orders or judgments,
as may be necessary to prevent the use or employment of Cross-Defendants of
such tactics and mechanisms that would unreasonably, unlawfully and unfairly
interfere with Cross-Complainants' law business and practice.
 
(Cross-complaint ¶¶ 23-26.)  
 
            The
Court finds that Cross-complainants have sufficiently pled the ultimate
facts necessary to state causes of action for intentional interference with
economic advantage and unfair business practices as noted above.  Ultimate facts are those “constituting the
cause of action” or those upon which liability depends, e.g., duty of care,
breach of the duty and causation (damages). 
(See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) [1] “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need
only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact
that might eventually form part of the plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872 [at
pleading stage, plaintiff need not specify which of the defendant’s employees
committed negligent acts or omissions].) 
 
            The
Court notes that Cross-Defendants’ arguments are related to the inclusion or
omission of details which amount to evidentiary facts.  Yet unearthing evidentiary facts supporting a
cause of action is the function of the discovery process.  (See, e.g., Chen v. Berenjian (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822 [“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures”]; Hernandez v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 301 [“The purpose of pretrial discovery
is to obtain all of the facts relative to a claim or defense”] .)
 
            Therefore,
for pleading purposes, the Court finds Cross-Complainants’ allegations are
sufficient and consequently, the Court overrules Cross-defendants’
demurrer to the first and second causes of action. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first
and second causes of action.  Further,
the Court orders Cross-Defendants to an answer to the Cross-complaint on or
before October 17, 2023.  
 
Cross-Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s rulings and file
a proof of service of such. 
 
 
DATED:  October 3, 2023                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Cour


