  Case Number:  23PSCP00526    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Statney Lattin Jr.’s Motion to Vacate
Judgment on Sister-State Judgment
Respondent: Plaintiff Grand
Capital
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Statney Lattin Jr.’s Motion to Vacate
Judgment on Sister-State Judgment is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff Grand Capital filed an application for entry of judgment on
sister-state judgment against Defendants People Onesource Inc. (People
Onesource), Convenant Industries, Inc. (Convenant Industries), and Statney
Lattin Jr. Grand Capital’s application is based on a judgment by confession
entered by the New York Supreme Court against People Onesource, Convenant
Industries, and Lattin in April 2017.
On February 23, 2024, Defendant
Lattin filed the present motion. On May 15, 2024, the court continued the
hearing on Lattin’s motion in order for Lattin to submit missing filings.
A hearing on the present
motion is set for June 27, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Defendant
Lattin moves to vacate the entry of the New York Supreme Court’s judgment by
confession. For the following reasons, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion without
prejudice.
Rule
3.1112, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court requires a motion to
include (1) a notice of hearing, (2) the motion, and (3) a supporting
memorandum. If a party fails to include a supporting memorandum, “[t]he court
may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion or
special demurrer is not meritorious and cause for its denial and, in the case
of a demurrer, as a waiver of all grounds not supported.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1113, subd. (a).)
In
this case, while Defendant Lattin filed a notice of motion, Defendant Lattin
failed to include any memorandum in support of the motion. At a hearing on May
15, 2024, the Court gave Defendant Lattin an extension of time to submit the
missing filings by May 24, 2024. Defendant Lattin failed to do so.  The court finds that a memorandum was
required as the motion is not exempt pursuant to Rule 3.1114, subdivision (a)
of the California Rules of Court. 
Since
Defendant neglected to include a memorandum of points and authorities, the
Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendant
Lattin’s motion to vacate the sister-state judgment is DENIED without
prejudice.