 Case Number:  24PSCV00775    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Superior Herbal Health, LLC and SHL-El  Monte, LLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Individual PAGA Claims to Arbitration  and Stay All Proceedings Pending the Completion of Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Oliver  Summers TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Superior Herbal Health, LLC and SHL-El  Monte, LLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Individual PAGA Claims to Arbitration  is GRANTED. The present action is STAYED pending the arbitration  of Plaintiff Oliver Summers’ individual PAGA claims. BACKGROUND This is a wage and hour  action brought pursuant to the Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA). From September  2022 to August 2023, Plaintiff Oliver Summers worked for Defendants Superior  Herbal Health, LLC (Superior Herbal Health) and SHL-El Monte, LLC (SHL-El  Monte) as a director of retail. On March 13, 2024, Summers filed a PAGA  complaint against Superior Herbal Health, SHL-El Monte, and Does 1-10, alleging  a single cause of action for civil penalties pursuant to the Labor Code. On April 19, 2024, Superior  Herbal Health and SHL-El Monte filed the present motion. A hearing on the  present motion is set for June 27, 2024, with a case management conference and  OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service set for August 1, 2024. ANALYSIS Superior Herbal Health and  SHL-El Monte move to compel Summers to binding  arbitration pursuant to an arbitration agreement. For the following reasons,  the Court GRANTS their motion. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In this case,  Superior Herbal Health and SHL-El  Monte argue the present action is subject to an arbitration agreement that  Summers signed when Summers’ employment commenced on September 22, 2022. (Groshans  Decl., ¶ 7-8, Ex. B.) In the agreement, Superior Herbal Health and Summers  agreed that “any claim, dispute, or controversy arising out or relating to [Summers’]  employment with [Superior Herbal Health], or the separation of that employment  shall be submitted to final and binding arbitration in accordance with the  terms of this Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Disputes.” (Groshans Decl., Ex. B,  p. 1.) The agreement also included specific examples of claims, disputes, or  controversies subject to arbitration which included those pursuant to the  California Labor Code. (Groshans Decl., Ex. B, p. 1.) The agreement further  stated that Superior Herbal Health and Summers “agree that claims must be  brought in each party’s individual capacity, and not as a . . . representative  proceeding.” (Groshans Decl., Ex. B, p. 2.) In addition to the above  provisions, the arbitration agreement states “any arbitration under this  agreement shall be governed by the [FAA] and California Code of Civil Procedure  sections 1280, et seq. (including without limitation section 1283.05 and its  mandatory and permissive rights to discovery).” (Groshans Decl., Ex. B, p. 1.)  Based on this provision, the court finds the arbitration agreement is governed  by the FAA. In  determining if Superior Herbal  Health and SHL-El Monte established the existence of an applicable arbitration  agreement, the court notes the subject arbitration agreement only appears to be  between Superior Herbal Health and Summers. Nowhere in the agreement is SHL-El  Monte listed as a party. Furthermore, the parties have presented evidence  establishing that SHL-El Monte is a separate corporate entity from Superior  Herbal Health and has never employed Summers. (Groshans Decl., ¶ 3.) Nonetheless,  SHL-El Monte argues it can compel arbitration pursuant to doctrines of equitable  estoppel and agency. (Motion, p. 9:12-11:16.) The doctrine of equitable estoppel “precludes a  party from asserting rights [they] otherwise would have had against another  when [their] own conduct renders assertion of those rights contrary to equity.”  (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003)  109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1713, quoting International Paper Co. v. Schwabedissen  Maschinen & Anlagen GMBH (4th Cir. 2000) 206 F.3d 411, 417-418.) In the  context of arbitration agreements, equitable estoppel applies when a signatory  to an agreement with an arbitration clause is required to rely on that  agreement’s terms in its action against the non-signing party or “when the  claims against the nonsignatory are founded in and inextricably bound up with  the obligations imposed by the agreement containing the arbitration clause.” (Pacific  Fertility Cases (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 887, 893, quoting Goldman v. KPMG,  LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 219.) Here, Summers alleges the same Labor Code  violations against both Superior  Herbal Health and SHL-El Monte by alleging they are liable as joint employers.  (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Because Summers’ claims against Superior Herbal Health are  “founded in and inextricably bound up” with Summers’ claims against SHL-El  Monte, the court finds the arbitration clause is applicable to SHL-El Monte through  the doctrine of equitable estoppel. In opposition, Summers argues  the present action is solely a representative action and that there is no  individual PAGA claims for Superior Herbal Health and SHL-El Monte to compel to  arbitration. (Opp., p. 2:5-12.) In Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022)  596 U.S. 639 (Viking River), the U.S. Supreme Court distinguished between  individual Labor Code violations that were suffered by the aggrieved employee  (individual claims) and Labor Code violations that were suffered by other  employees (representative claims). (Id., at p. 648-649.) The purpose for  making this distinction was to determine whether a PAGA action could be split and  whether the arbitration of the individual claims barred litigation of the  representative claims. (Id., at p. 662-663.) The court concluded the FAA  preempted a prohibition on splitting these claims and opined that arbitration  of the individual claims would likely obviate an aggrieved employee’s standing  to bring the representative claims. (Ibid.) Subsequently, the California  Supreme Court held the arbitration of individual PAGA claims did not eliminate  an aggrieved employee’s standing to bring representative claims. (Adolph v.  Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1114 (Adolph).)  In doing so, the court acknowledged Viking  River’s distinction between individual claims “‘premised on Labor Code  violations actually sustained by’ the plaintiff” and representative claims “‘arising  out of events involving other employees.’” (Ibid, quoting Viking  River, supra, 596 U.S. at p. 648-649.) Thus, the fact that Summers’  PAGA action is classified as a representative action does not prevent the  arbitration of any individual PAGA claim where Summers alleges Summers suffered  a violation of the Labor Code. Here, the Complaint  specifically alleges the Labor Code violations at issue were committed “against  Plaintiff.” (Complaint, ¶ 40.) Thus, the Court finds Summers’ PAGA action  consists of individual claims that are subject to the arbitration agreement  that Summers signed in September 2022. Because Superior Herbal  Health and SHL-El Monte have adequately established the existence of an applicable  arbitration provision that is governed by the FAA, the burden now shifts to Summers  to establish any defense to the enforcement of this arbitration agreement.  Because Summers’ opposition fails to do so, Superior Herbal  Health and SHL-El Monte’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Superior  Herbal Health and SHL-El Monte’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED and  the present action is STAYED pending the arbitration of Summers’  individual PAGA claims.