  Case Number:  21STCV44685    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Order Determining Good Faith
of Settlement
 
Moving
Party: Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC  
Resp.
Party:    None  
 
 
The unopposed Motion for
Order Determining Good Faith of Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On
December 7, 2021, Plaintiff Michael Fortner filed his Complaint against Defendants
Viale Di Romani LLC and Anthony Doe on causes of action arising from
Plaintiff’s employment. 
 
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to substitute Does 1 through 3
with Viale Di Romani LLC (d.b.a. La Peer Hotel), Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant
Group, LLC, and La Peer Hotel Owner LLC, respectively. 
 
On
June 20, 2022, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to substitute Does 4 through 6
with Casey John Lane, From Scratch Hospitality, LLC, and Apicci (Denver) LLC,
respectively. 
 
On
July 28, 2022, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to substitute Doe 7 with KHRG La
Peer LLC. 
 
On
August 1, 2022, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice La Peer Hotel Owner LLC and Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC
from the Complaint. 
 
On
August 17, 2022, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice Apicii (Denver) LLC from the Complaint. 
 
On
September 22, 2022, Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC filed its Answer to the
Complaint. 
 
On
September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed Judicial Council CM-200, Notice of
Settlement of Entire Case. Later that same day, Plaintiff filed his First
Amended Notice of Settlement of Entire Case. 
 
On
September 7, 2023, Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC filed its Motion for Order
Determining Good Faith of Settlement, as well as its Proposed Order. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“Any party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In the alternative, a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).)
 
“The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC
moves the Court to issue an order determining that the settlement between
Plaintiff and Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC was reached in good faith and thus
precludes any pending and future claims against this Defendant pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6. (Motion, p. 7:18–21.)
 
Among other things, Defense
Counsel declares: (1) Plaintiff and Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC have come to a
settlement; (2) Plaintiff shall dismiss with prejudice his claims against
Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC; (3) Plaintiff shall release Defendant KHRG La Peer
LLC, its owner (Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC and La Peer Hotel
Owner, LLC), and their affiliated entities and persons, but will not dismiss any
other defendants; (4) Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC shall deliver to Plaintiff a
settlement sum in full consideration of the settlement; (5) the settlement was
reached in a good faith manner through open, arms-length negotiations between
Counsel for Plaintiff and Defendant KHRG La Peer LLC; and (6) that there is no
collusive or secretive terms of the settlement. (Motion, Decl. Burns, ¶¶ 7–9.)
 
        The Motion is
unopposed. The Court does not have any evidence that would indicate the
settlement was not entered into in good faith. The evidence before the Court indicates that the settlement
was made in good faith.
 
The Court finds that the settlement was entered into good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc, § 877.6, subd. (b).) 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 