 Case Number:  BC490644    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination — Enforcement of Judgment Against Third Person Miriana Benson
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Creditor Matthew Loguidice 
Resp. Party:    None 
 
SUBJECT:        Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination — Enforcement of Judgment Against Third Person Robert Dapper
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Creditor Matthew Loguidice 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
 
Judgment Creditor’s Applications and Orders for Appearance
and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment against Third Persons are GRANTED.
 
At the time the Order is served on the Third Persons,
Judgment Creditor shall ensure that the requirements set out in Code of Civil
Procedure, section 708.120, subdivision (f) are followed
 
Judgment Creditor shall file proof of service as to each of
the Third Persons no less than 72 hours in advance of the next hearing.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August
22, 2012, Plaintiff Matthew Loguidice filed his Complaint against Defendant
Paris Rashad Benson on causes of action regarding business transactions the
Parties were engaged in. 
 
On
October 30, 2012, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint. 
 
On
November 2, 2020, the Court entered Judgment for Plaintiff (now “Judgment
Creditor”) and against Defendants Paris Rashad Benson (a.k.a. Paris Benson),
The Alfree Group, Inc., The Alfree Group, and The Altree Investments, LLC (now
“Judgment Debtors”), jointly and severally, in the total amount of $374,985.47.
 
On
September 20, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed: (1) Application and Order for
Appearance and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment Against Third Person
Miriana Benson; and (2) Application and Order for Appearance and Examination —
Enforcement of Judgment Against Third Person Robert Dapper. 
 
No
opposition or other responses were filed. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard 
 
“Upon ex parte application by a judgment creditor who has a money judgment
and proof by the judgment creditor by affidavit or otherwise to the
satisfaction of the proper court that a third person has possession or control
of property in which the judgment debtor has an interest or is indebted to the
judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250), the
court shall make an order directing the third person to appear before the
court, or before a referee appointed by the court, at a time and place
specified in the order, to answer concerning such property or debt. The affidavit
in support of the judgment creditor’s application may be based on the affiant’s
information and belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (a).)
 
“Not less than 10 days prior to the date set for the
examination, a copy of the order shall be:
 
1.         
“Served personally on the
third person.
 
2.         
“Served personally or by mail
on the judgment debtor.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (b)(1)–(2).)
 
“An order made pursuant to subdivision (a) shall
contain the following statements in 14-point boldface type if printed or in
capital letters if typed:
 
1.         
“‘NOTICE TO PERSON SERVED. If
you fail to appear at the time and place specified in this order, you may be
subject to arrest and punishment for contempt of court and the court may make
an order requiring you to pay the reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the
judgment creditor in this proceeding.’
 
2.         
“‘NOTICE TO JUDGMENT DEBTOR. The
person in whose favor the judgment was entered in this action claims that the
person to be examined pursuant to this order has possession or control of
property which is yours or owes you a debt. This property or debt is as
follows: (Description of property or debt).
 
“If you
claim that all or any portion of this property or debt is exempt from
enforcement of the money judgment, you must file your exemption claim in
writing with the court and personally serve a copy on the judgment creditor not
later than three days before the date set for the examination. You must appear
at the time and place set for this examination to establish your claim of
exemption or your exemption may be waived.’”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (e)(1)–(2).)
 
“An order made pursuant to subdivision (a) is not effective
unless, at the time it is served on the third person, the person serving the
order tenders to the third person fees for the mileage necessary to be traveled
from the third person’s residence to the place of examination. The mileage fees
shall be in the same amount generally provided for witnesses when legally
required to attend civil proceedings in the court where the examination
proceeding is to be conducted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd. (f).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor applies for orders for Third Persons
Miriana Benson and Robert Dapper to appear for examination. (Applications,
Items 1, 2.b., 2.c., 4, 5.b.) The Application forms used are Judicial Council
Form AT-138/EJ-125, and they include the statutorily required notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.120, subd.
(e)(1)–(2).)
 
As to Third Person Miriana Benson,
Judgment Creditor claims that they control personal property of Judgment Debtor
Paris Benson as separate or community property. 
 
As to Third Person Robert Dapper,
Judgment Creditor claims that they control funds or debts owed to Non-Party
Benson Kindness LLC and/or Judgment Debtor Paris Benson. 
 
Judgment Creditor has made a satisfactory showing that the
Third Persons have control of property in which the Judgment Debtor has an interest or is
indebted to the judgment debtor in an amount exceeding two hundred fifty
dollars ($250).
¿ 
III.     Conclusion 
 
Judgment Creditor’s Applications and Orders for Appearance
and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment against Third Persons are GRANTED.
 
At the time the Order is served on the Third Persons,
Judgment Creditor shall make sure to follow the requirements set out in Code of
Civil Procedure, section 708.120, subdivision (f).
 
Judgment Creditor shall file proof of service as to each of
the Third Persons no less than 72 hours in advance of the next hearing.
 