 Case Number:  22STC36142    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
Edward M. Morgan.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 15, 2022, Clifford Flores
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles, County Sanitation
Districts of Los Angeles County, County of Los Angeles, California Department
of Transportation, and William M. Dismuke for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence causes of action arising from an automobile accident
occurring on February 3, 2022.
On March 6, 2024, Edward M. Morgan of
Downtown L.A. Law Group (“Counsel”) filed this motion to be relieved as
counsel. No opposition has been filed.
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Counsel has attempted to confirm Plaintiff’s last known address by
mailing papers to Plaintiff’s last known address with return receipt, calling
Plaintiff, performing a TLO search, and hiring a private investigator. (Decl.,
No. 3.b.(2)(a)(b)(d)&(e).)  
 
Counsel has
included all upcoming hearings, and has served all parties currently in this
matter.
The Court finds
Counsel has shown good cause to be relieved as counsel due to the breakdown in
attorney-client relationship. Further, the Court finds Counsel has attempted to
properly ascertain Plaintiff’s current address to serve him with this motion.  All substantive and procedural requirements
are satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service of
the signed order (not the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.