 Case Number:  23STCV01989    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Keller Williams Realty, Inc. for Summary Adjudication.
BACKGROUND
SHELON DOUGLAS (“Plaintiff”) brings this case for
alleged habitability issues in her rental unit. Plaintiff alleges that her
landlords MOLLY WAGGONER and JASON WAGGONER (“Waggoners”) and the broker KELLER
WILLIAMS REALTY, INC. (“Keller”) caused a rental listing to be posted to the
Multiple Listing Service (MLS) that advertised rental residential property for
rent and claimed that it was equipped with central air and heating, and the
Waggoners verbally stated similarly. However, allegedly there were a myriad of
habitability issues, including inadequate heat. The causes of action against
Keller are (1) Negligence and (5) Fraudulent Misrepresentation. 
Keller has filed a motion requesting summary adjudication
on three issues. There is no opposition filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The initial burden rests with the side moving for
summary judgment, even in the absence of an opposition. Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.
ANALYSIS
The motion is made on grounds that there exists no
triable issue of material fact that: (1) Keller is not liable for the alleged
negligence and fraudulent misrepresentation of its franchisee, Marina Brokerage
Partners, Inc. dba Keller Williams Silicon Beach that independently acted as
the listing broker for the lease, (2) Plaintiff’s negligence claim in the
Complaint was filed untimely beyond two years after Plaintiff became aware of
the alleged defects, and (3) Keller made no  misrepresentation to Plaintiff that she would
have reasonably relied upon as required for a fraud claim. 
First, Keller submits a Market Center License
Agreement, having sections 19.02 and 6.01, providing for no agency relationship
with the listing broker. Separate statement fact numbers 1-3. 
Additionally, Keller provides proof that Plaintiff was
aware of the alleged defects by 6/29/20 when she emailed about a defective
furnace, and Plaintiff filed the Complaint over two years later. Separate
statement, fact numbers 6 and 8. 
Finally, Keller argues that allegedly pointing to a
vent and thermostat was not a misrepresentation, and an MLS Sheet that Plaintiff
reviewed contained disclaimers that the brokers/agents do not represent the
conditions or features of the property, but instead the Plaintiff was to
investigate. Separate statement, fact number 9. 
By such evidence, Keller has shifted the burden of
proof on all three issues in the motion, but Plaintiff has filed no opposition
in order to raise any triable issues of material fact as to those issues.
 
CONCLUSION
Therefore, the Court grants the unopposed motion. The
Court will sign the proposed order submitted with the motion. 