 Case Number:  24STCP01045    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Amended Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights.
 
BACKGROUND
The petition is pursuant to amended California
Insurance Code section 10134, et seq. Petitioner seeks Court approval of the
transfer of structured settlement payments that SIANI RUIZ (payee) has a right
to after a personal injury claim settlement. The payments are set forth in a
Purchase Agreement. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The California Legislature has adopted the Structured
Settlement Protection Act (SSPA) (§  10134 et seq.) to protect structured
settlement payees from exploitation by factoring companies.” RSL Funding,
LLC v. Alford (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 741, 745.
 
“The court-approval process requires the factoring company to file a
petition in the county in which the transferor resides for approval of the
transfer, attaching copies of the petition, the transfer agreement, the
disclosure form, the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement and
the structured settlement agreement, a list of the names and ages of the
transferor’s dependents, notice of the court hearing date, and notice of a
right to respond.” 321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1066 (citing Ins. Code § 10139.5, subd. (c)).
 
“The California act…governing transfers of structured settlement payment
rights defines a ‘ “[s]tructured settlement agreement” [as] an arrangement for
periodic payment of damages established by settlement or judgment in resolution
of a tort claim in which the payment of the judgment or award is paid in whole,
or in part, in periodic tax-free payments rather than a lump-sum payment.’ ” Matthews
v. Liberty Assignment Corp. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 71, 78.
 
Procedurally, the
following elements are required to be served and filed not less than 20 days
prior to the scheduled hearing on any application for approval of a transfer of
structured settlement payment rights: 
 
(A) A copy of the
transferee's application.
 
(B) A copy of the transfer
agreement.
 
(C) A listing of each of
the payee’s dependents, together with each
Dependent’s age.
 
(D) A copy of the
disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136.
 
(E) A copy of the annuity
contract.
 
(F) A copy of any
qualified assignment agreement.
 
(G) A copy of the underlying
structured settlement agreement.
 
(H) Notification that any
interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or
otherwise respond to the
transferee's application, either in person or by
counsel, by submitting
written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing.
 
(I) Notification of the
time and place of the hearing and notification of the
manner in which and the
time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which may not
be less than 15 days after service of the transferee's notice, in order to be
considered by the court.
 
Ins.  Code § 10139.5,
subd. (c)(2).
 
Additionally, pursuant to
Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (a), the Court must make the
following express findings as to a transfer of structured settlement payment
rights:
 
(1) The transfer is in the best
interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the
payee's dependents.

(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek
independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received
that advice or knowingly waived that advice in writing.

(3) The transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that
complies with section 10136 and the transfer agreement complies with sections
10136 and 10138.

(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order
of any court or other government authority.

(5) The payee reasonably understands the terms of the transfer agreement,
including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by section
10136.

(6) The payee reasonably understands and does not wish to exercise the
payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.
 
Ins. Code § 10139.5(a).
 
Also, judges shall retain
continuing jurisdiction to interpret and monitor the implementation of the
transfer agreement as justice requires. Ins. Code § 10139.5, subd. (f).
 
Further, at the time of
filing such a petition, the transferee shall file a copy of the petition with
the California Attorney General. Ins. Code § 10139.
 
Finally, all court costs and filing fees shall be paid by
the transferee. Ins. Code § 10139.5(d). 
 
ANALYSIS
The Court finds that the papers comply with the
procedural requirements.
The Court further finds that the proposed transfer is
in the best interest of the payee, taking into account that the welfare and
support of dependents of payee is not a consideration here.
The payee declares that she is single with no
children, 21 years old, unemployed, and a college student.
The payee would be transferring one payment of
$160,000.00 on 10/24/27 and would be receiving $94,500.00 from the transaction.
The
purchase price to be paid was calculated using a discount rate of 15.89 percent,
which is analogous to paying the equivalent of an interest rate of 15.89
percent per year..
The payee plans to use the funds for college tuition,
loan payments, starting a clothing business,  and other expenses. 
CONCLUSION
The petition is granted. The Court will sign and file the
proposed order that the payee already signed. 