  Case Number:  19SMCV00535    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
EDWIN SOLORZANO, an individual and in
  the right of and for the benefit of WHOLESALE DIRECT METALS, a California corporation,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
WHOLESALE
  DIRECT METALS, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  19SMCV00535
 
  Hearing Date:  July 18, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
PLAINTIFF/APPELLANT EDWIN SOLORZANO’S MOTION TO USE A SETTLED
  STATEMENT
 



 
BACKGROUND
 
               This case
arises from a dispute among shareholders of a closely held corporation called Wholesale
Direct Metals (“WDM”).  Damon Geller
(“Mr. Geller”) formed WDM.  Defendant Niloofar
Maashfegh Geller (“Mrs. Geller”) is Damon’s wife.  WDM sells precious metals in coins and
bullion form to the public.  It
advertises its offerings primarily on the Internet.  WDM’s orders are typically paid for with wire
transfers, checks, or other form of payment by the customers, after which WDM
either dropships metals from a distributor directly to the customer or takes
possession of gold and silver from customers at the office.  
In March 2018, Plaintiff Edwin Solorzano
invested $100,000 in exchange for 125 shares of WDM, becoming a minority
shareholder.  Plaintiff became a director
of WDM and the President.  Plaintiff
continues to hold these positions today. 

Plaintiff (and other WDM shareholders) had a
history of disputes with Mr. Geller about his alleged mismanagement of WDM,
including the setting and payment of Mr. Geller’s compensation.   On
April 24, 2018, Plaintiff and WDM entered into a Redemption Agreement whereby:
(1) Mr. Geller sold all of his shares back to WDM, (2) Mr. Geller paid WDM
$170,000 to resolve the disputes regarding his management of WDM and in
exchange for the releases granted to him by WDM, and (3) Plaintiff and WDM
broadly and fully released Mr. Geller, Mrs. Geller, and their heirs,
beneficiaries, and assigns (the “Geller Releasors”) from any and all claims,
whether or not concealed or hidden, from the beginning of time through April
2018.  The Redemption Agreement included
a waiver under Code Civ. Proc. § 1542.  
Less than a year after the Redemption
Agreement was signed, in March 2019, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Mrs.
Geller and others, alleging they embezzled at least $9.65 million.  Plaintiff alleges they did so by buying
metals for non-existent customers, billing the cost of those metals to the
company as “promotional,” and then physically stealing the metal.  Plaintiff also alleges the theft included the
payment of unauthorized salaries, unauthorized sham “loans,” payment of
personal expenses with company funds, and other payments to defendants for no
ascertainable reason.  
Based on the allegations in the Complaint, Plaintiff
sought and received a writ of possession, allowing him to enter Mrs. Geller’s
home and seize gold from her safe.  Plaintiff
seized 60 one-ounce Canadian Maple Leaf gold coins.  
The
Court ultimately granted a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to an
arbitration clause in the Redemption Agreement. 

On
September 14, 2023, the Court confirmed the arbitrator’s Final Award in favor
of Adam Gruen, Amanda Gruen, and Mrs. Geller on all claims made against them by
Plaintiff and WDM.
 On October 6, 2023, Mrs. Geller filed a Motion
for an Order for Release and Redelivery of Seized Property, for Damages and
Interest, and for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs (the “Release Motion”).  Mrs.
Geller argued she was entitled to a release and redelivery and for damages
sustained as a result of the seizure because Plaintiff did not recover a
judgment against her.  Mrs. Geller also
sought to recover attorneys’ fees and costs associated with this motion and her
prior motion to quash the writ of possession pursuant to the attorneys’ fees
provision in the Redemption Agreement and Cal. Civ. Code § 1717. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to that motion on October 23, 2023, and
Mrs. Geller filed a reply on October 27, 2023. 
On November 3, 2023, the Court granted in
part and denied in part the Release Motion.   

The same day, on November 3, 2023, Plaintiff appealed
the Court’s order on the Release Motion. 
On
December 14, 2023, the Court entered judgment based on the final arbitration
award. 
On
December 18, 2023, Plaintiff appealed the judgment. 
On
May 20, 2024, the clerk filed a “Notice to Appellant of Proceedings Not
Reported or Recorded,” notifying the parties that Plaintiff’s choice of oral
record (i.e., a court reporter’s transcript) of the hearing on the Release
Motion on November 3, 2023, was not available because the Minute Order from
that hearing stated that a court reporter was not present at the hearing or
trial.  Therefore, the Civil Appeals Unit
will not notify any court reporter(s) to prepare transcripts for that hearing. 
On
May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Appellant’s Motion to Use a Settled
Statement only for the Release Motion hearing on November 3, 2023.   
On
June 14, 2024, the Court issued a “Nunc Pro Tunc Order Re: Minute Order dated
03/05/2020.”  On March 5, 2020, the Court
entered a minute order stating that no Certified Shorthand Reporter (“CSR”) was
present.  The nunc pro tunc order corrected
that minute order by striking “CSR: None” and adding (among other things) “CSR:
Marie L. Strickland, CSR #4645.”  However,
the Court has not issued any nunc pro tunc order changing its statement that
there was no CSR at the Release Motion hearing on November 3, 2023.  
On
July 2, 2024, Mrs. Geller filed her opposition to the motion to use a settled
statement for the Release Motion hearing. 
            On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply. 
MOTION TO USE SETTLED STATEMENT
Except
as otherwise provided in the California Rules of Court, the record on an appeal
in a civil case must contain a record of written documents (rule 8.120(a)) and a
record of the oral proceedings (rule 8.120(b)). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.120.)
“If an appellant intends to raise any issue that requires
consideration of the oral proceedings in the superior court, the record on
appeal must include a record of these oral proceedings in the form of one of
the following:  
(1)   A reporter’s transcript under
rule 8.130; 
(2)   An agreed statement under rule
8.134; or 
(3)   A settled statement under rule
8.137.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rules
8.120(b); 8.137(a) [“A settled statement is a summary of the superior court proceedings
approved by the superior court”].)
“If
any portion of the designated proceedings cannot be transcribed, the superior
court clerk must so notify the designating party in writing; the notice must
show the date it was sent.  The party may
then substitute an agreed or settled statement for that portion of the
designated proceedings by complying with either (A) or (B): 
(A)          
Within 10 days after the notice is sent, the party may file
in superior court, under rule 8.134, an agreed statement or a stipulation that
the parties are attempting to agree on a statement.  If the party files a stipulation, within 30
days thereafter the party must file the agreed statement, move to use a settled
statement under rule 8.137, or proceed without such a statement; or
(B)          
Within 10 days after the notice is sent, the party may move
in superior court to use a settled statement.
 If the court grants the motion, the
statement must be served, filed, and settled as rule 8.137 provides, but the
order granting the motion must fix the times for doing so.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.130(h)(1) [emphasis added].)
            Here,
Plaintiff moves to use a settled statement for the Release Motion hearing on
November 3, 2023.  
In
opposition, Mrs. Geller argues the motion is procedurally defective because
Plaintiff did not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 8.137.  According to Mrs. Geller, that rule required
Plaintiff to, among other things, elect in his notice his intent to use a
settled statement as the superior court’s proceedings.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.137(b)(1) [“An
appellant may elect in his or her notice designating the record on appeal under
rule 8.121 to use a settled statement as the record of the oral proceedings in
the superior court without filing a motion under (2) if: ¶ (A) The designated oral proceedings in the superior court
were not reported by a court reporter; or ¶ (B) The appellant has an order waiving his or her court
fees and costs”].)  Mrs. Geller further
argues that even if Plaintiff had elected to use a settled statement at the
time, they were required to serve and file a proposed statement within 30 days
of filing the Notices (i.e. by March 28, 2024).  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.137(c)(1) [“If
the respondent does not file a notice under (b)(4)(A) electing to provide a
reporter’s transcript in lieu of proceeding with a settled statement, the
appellant must serve and file a proposed statement in superior court within 30
days after filing its notice under (b)(1) or within 30 days after the superior
court clerk sends, or a party serves, an order granting a motion under (b)(2)”].)

Mrs.
Geller is technically correct to suggest that to the extent Plaintiff knew
there was no court reporter at the hearing on the Release Motion on November 3,
2023, Plaintiff was required to elect in his notice of appeal his intent to use
a settled statement pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.137(b)(1).  Plaintiff did not.  Instead, he requested a court reporter’s
transcript of the hearing even though the Court’s minute order for that hearing
stated: “CSR: None.” 
Nevertheless,
as Plaintiff argues in their reply, California Rules of Court, rule 8.130(h)(1)
(see above) states that (1) if a superior court clerk notifies a party that a
portion of a proceeding cannot be transcribed, (2) the clerk must notify the
designating party in writing, and (3) within 10 days after that notice is sent,
the designating party may move the trial court for an order to use a settled
statement.  Here, the clerk notified the
parties on May 20, 2024, that the hearing on the Release Motion (which took
place on November 3, 2023) could not be transcribed because a court reporter
was not present at the hearing.  Within
10 days of that notice, on May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to use a settled statement for the Release Motion hearing.  Therefore, the motion is timely and proper
under rule 8.130(h)(1).  
Accordingly, the Court finds it proper to grant the
motion pursuant to rule 8.130(h)(1).  
“If the court grants the motion, the statement must be
served, filed, and settled as rule 8.137 provides, but the order granting the
motion must fix the times for doing so.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.130(h)(1)(B).)
Accordingly, the Court shall set a time frame for
filing the proposed statement and other related documents pursuant to rule
8.137.  
CONCLUSION
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Use a Settled
Statement.  
            Plaintiff/Appellant Edwin Solorzano shall file a
proposed statement within 30 days of this ruling.  The contents of the proposed statement must
adhere to California Rules of Court, rule 8.137(d). 
            Defendant/Respondent
Niloofar Maashfegh Geller shall file her response to the proposed statement
within 20 days after service of the proposed statement in accordance with
California Rules of Court, rule 8.137(e). 
            All subsequent
procedures shall follow California Rules of Court, rule 8.137. 
         
DATED:  July 18, 2024                                          ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court