 Case Number:  22STCV20144    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Quash Subpoena filed by Plaintiff Robin Ryan.
 
TENTATIVE
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
The subpoenas are modified, as set forth
below.  
With these modifications made, the motion to
quash the subpoenas, as modified, is denied.
Both parties’ requests for sanctions are
denied.
BACKGROUND 
 
This case arises from an
incident on June 24, 2020, in which Plaintiff Robin Ryan (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she fell and was severely injured as she attempted to sit on an unsecured
bench.  Plaintiff filed the Complaint in
this action on June 21, 2022, asserting a cause of action for negligence/premises
liability against Defendants Trophy Automotive Dealer Group, LLC, Kia of
Carson, Will Amiri, and Does 1 through 50.
Defendants Trophy
Automotive Dealer Group, LLC, Kia of Carson, and Will Amiri (collectively, “Defendants”)
filed their Answer on April 19, 2023.
On or about November 7,
2023, Defendants issued 27 subpoenas to medical providers seeking all medical
and billing records pertaining to Plaintiff, without limitation to time or
scope.  Multiple subpoenas were sent to
each of eight entities (Long Beach Memorial Medical Center; Dr. M. Jay Jazayeri;
Medcessity, Inc.; Samimi Orthopedic Group; Radiance Surgery Center; Cole
Medical, Inc.; Medicare Regional, Office 9; and Blue Shield of California Promise
Health Plan).  
An exchange of letters did
not resolve the dispute.  On November 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash the subpoenas.  Defendants filed their
opposition on February 1, and Plaintiff filed her reply on February 7.  
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision(a), states:  
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.  
The California Constitution recognizes that
all people have “inalienable rights,” including “pursuing and obtaining safety,
happiness, and privacy.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. 1, § 1.)
For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  Generally,
all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the
action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if
it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants seek to obtain, by subpoena, all
of Plaintiff’s medical and billing records from eight health care providers,
without limitation as to time or scope. 
(Kim Decl., Exh. B.)  Plaintiff
argues that these subpoenas are overly broad and violate her right to privacy.
In her (unverified) Complaint, Plaintiff
alleged that in connection with the subject incident, she sustained “life-changing
and debilitating injuries …, including but not limited to a shattered right
kneecap/patella.”  (Complaint, ¶ 10.)  She alleged that she had suffered “injuries
to her physical health, strength and activity, and shock and injury to her
nervous system, all of which said injuries have caused, and continue to cause
her great physical, mental, and nervous pain and suffering.”  (Id., ¶ 19.)
In a verified discovery response, Plaintiff
stated:
“Responding Party suffered injuries to her right knee,
including but not limited to a right knee cap/patella fracture.  Responding Party had a prior right knee meniscus
repair in 2017 and a right total knee replacement in 2018.  Responding Party had an excellent recovery
and outcome from her total knee replacement, which was injured, aggravated,
and/or exacerbaged by the subject incident. 
…  Treatment is ongoing and
further assessments and diagnoses may be made.” 

(Kim Decl., Exh. A., Response to Form
Interrogatory 6.2.)
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas violate her
right to privacy.  California’s
Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal
life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This
includes such things as medical records, employment records, and financial
information.¿¿(John B. v. Super. Ct. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198
(medical records); Valley Bank of Nevada v. Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d
652, 656 (financial records); l Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Super.
Ct. (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 342, 345 (employment records); Board of
Trustees v. Super. Ct. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526 (employment records).)

In Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th
1, and other cases, the California Supreme Court has established “a framework
for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 552.) First, a party asserting a privacy right must establish “a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Id., citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.) In
response, the party seeking the information may raise “whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Id.,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.) The court must then
“balance these competing considerations.” (Ibid.) The party seeking the
information need not, however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the
disclosure would be “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.” (Id. at p. 556.)
Under
the Williams and Hill framework, Plaintiff here must first
establish a legally protected privacy interest and a reasonable expectation of
privacy. Plaintiff has done so.  The medical
records covered by the subpoenas are protected by the right to privacy, and
Plaintiff has an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in these
records.  
Next, the subpoenas appear on their face to be a
serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s right to privacy. The subpoenas are
unlimited in time and scope and seek information regarding medical care,
insurance information, and financial matters, all of which are private,
personal, and sensitive.
At this point, under Williams and Hill,
Defendants must identify the “legitimate and important countervailing
interests” that disclosure would serve. For example, Defendant may attempt to
show that the discovery sought is “directly relevant” to the claims or defenses
in dispute and is “essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Lantz
v. Super. Ct. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.) 
Defendants have made this showing, at least in
part.  Plaintiff claims that the accident
caused her serious injuries to her right knee. 
Some medical records regarding her right knee, both after the incident and
before it (particularly in light of the fact that Plaintiff had surgery to the
same knee in 2017 and then a total knee replacement in 2018) is directly
relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.  But Defendants
have not made that showing as to Plaintiff’s other medical records, for treatments
or injuries or diseases or other maladies that she may have suffered going back
for decades.  Medical records relating to
Plaintiff’s right knee are directly relevant to the claims and defenses in
dispute, and Defendant has a legitimate interest in obtaining those records.
Plaintiff has not identified any feasible
alternatives that would serve the same interests and diminish the loss of
privacy.  The parties now agree to limit
the subpoenas to the period of January 1, 2010 to the present.  (Mot., at p. 10; Opp., at p. 5.)
Finally, under the framework set out in Hill
and reaffirmed in Williams, the Court must balance the “competing
considerations” of the serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s privacy and
Defendant’s legitimate need for the information.  This balancing of competing considerations is
necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is particularly challenging
here as the Court does not know what the subpoenaed records will reveal.
Nonetheless, the Court must and will conduct the balancing based on the
information before it in the record. 
On
balance, and after considering all of the evidence in the record and the
arguments of both sides, the Court finds that Defendant’s legitimate interest
in obtaining the subpoenaed records, as limited in two respects – (1)
pertaining to injuries to or treatment of Plaintiff’s right knee only and (2)
for the time period of January 1, 2010 to the present – outweighs Plaintiff’s
substantial privacy interest.  Accordingly,
the Court will limit the time period and scope of the subpoenas and, as modified,
deny the motion to quash the subpoenas.
The
Court also DENIES both parties’ requests for sanctions.  Although the Court disagrees with Defendants’
position, the Court finds that Defendants have acted with substantial
justification (as has Plaintiff).
Finally, the
Court notes Defendants’ concern that the allegations in the Complaint, broadly
construed, could extend to physical injuries beyond Plaintiff’s right
knee.  But Plaintiff’s verified discovery
responses describe the injury as limited to her right knee.  Plaintiff must expect and assume that her verified
discovery responses, as well as the statements of her counsel to the Court in
this motion to quash (see Motion, at p. 2:13-14 [“Plaintiff’s claimed injury in
this action is limited to only her: ‘right knee, including but not limited to a
right knee cap/patella fracture.’”]), will limit the scope of the evidence of
injury that she is permitted to present at or before trial.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The Court MODIFIES the
27 subpoenas at issue.
 
The Court MODIFIES the scope of the
subpoenas as follows: each subpoena is limited to records relating to injuries
to or treatments for Plaintiff’s right knee.
 
The court MODIFIES the time period of
the subpoenas as follows: each subpoena is limited to the period of January 1,
2010 to the present.
 
With these modifications made, the
Court DENIES the motion to quash the subpoenas as modified.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.