 Case Number:  22STCV16157    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint from Defendant Albertsons
LLC.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
This matter arises from an alleged
slip and fall on May 18, 2020, at an Albertson’s store on Crenshaw Boulevard in
Los Angeles.  On May 16, 2022, Plaintiff Anthony
Renee Beamon (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against
Defendants Albertsons Safeway, LLC, Albertson’s LLC, Manager Precious, and Does
1 through 50, asserting causes of action for general negligence and premises
liability.
 
On August 10, 2022, Defendant
Albertsons LLC (erroneously sued as Albertsons Safeway, LLC and as Albertson’s
LLC) (“Defendant”) filed its Answer to the Complaint.
 
On December 27, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion for leave to file a cross-complaint for indemnity against Source Refrigeration
and HVAC, Inc., Coolsys, Inc., and Roes 1 through 10. No opposition has been
filed.
 
Legal Standard
CCP § 428.10
provides that a party against whom a cause of action has been asserted may file
a cross-complaint setting forth:  “(b)
Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon,
whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of
action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”  (CCP § 428.10(b).) A party shall obtain leave
of court to file a cross-complaint if it is not concurrently filed with the
answer or at any time before the court sets a trial date. Leave may be granted
in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (CCP § 428.10(c).)  
Where, as here,
a cross-complaint is permissive, the Court has broad discretion regarding
whether to grant or deny a motion for leave to file.  (Crocker Nat’l Bank v. Emerald (1990)
221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) 
Discussion
Defendant seeks
to file a Cross-Complaint for Equitable Indemnity, Breach of Contract, Express
Indemnity, Contribution and Apportionment, and Declaratory Relief, against
Source Refrigeration and HVAC Inc., Coolsys, Inc., and Roes 1 to 10. (Exhibit
A, proposed Cross-Complaint.) 
The claims
against Source Refrigeration and HVAC, INC., Coolsys, Inc, and Coolsys
Commercial & Industrial Solutions, Inc. appear to be closely related to the
matter in Plaintiff’s complaint in that there is, according to Defendant, a
master service agreement that contractually binds them to indemnify and defend Defendant
against the Plaintiff’s claim. Defendant states that the delay in seeking leave
to file was the result of attempts to resolve the indemnity issue without
litigation.  (The Court is here describing
Defendant’s allegations; the Court expresses no view on the merits of the claims
asserted in the proposed Cross-Complaint.)
The Court finds
that the cross-complaint arises out of the same occurrence or series of
occurrences as set forth in the Complaint. 
Plaintiff does not oppose the motion, and so there does not appear to be
any undue prejudice to Plaintiff in allowing the filing of the Cross-Complaint.
The Court finds
that granting the motion is in the interests of justice.  Therefore, the
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to file its Cross-Complaint.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
for leave to file its Cross-Complaint. 
 
The
Court GRANTS LEAVE to Defendant to file the Cross-Complaint attached as Exhibit
A to its moving papers within 10 days.
 
Moving
Party to give notice.