 Case Number:  22STCV33027    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Consolidate Cases filed by Defendant
PIBE’S Auto LLC
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
These cases arise out of a vehicle accident on May 16,
2022 on Interstate 210 in Sun Valley, California.
In this matter (Case No. 22STCV33027, the “Ornelaz Action”),
on October 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Jean Ornelaz, individually and as successor-in-interest
to decedent Thomas Ornelaz; Alicia Ornelaz; Natalie Ornelaz; Rachel Ornelaz;
and Robert Ornelaz (collectively, the “Ornelaz Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint
asserting causes of action for negligence, negligence-common carrier, negligent
entrustment, negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, and loss of
consortium against Defendants Amadeus F. Segura, Isabel Segura, Luis Segura
Trucking, Inc., Segura Logistics Inc, Torlak Segura Transportation, Inc, and
Does 1 through 20. On October 26, 2022, the Ornelaz Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) adding Pibe’s Auto LLC (“Pibe’s”) and Hector Ruiz Roa
as defendants.
Luis Segura Trucking Inc. (erroneously sued as Torlak
Segura Transportation Inc. and Segura Logistics) and Amadeus F. Segura filed
their answer in the Ornelaz Action on November 28, 2022.
Pibe’s appeared in the Ornelaz Action on January 18,
2023, and filed a motion to strike the punitive damages allegations against it
in the FAC.  That motion was granted,
with leave to amend, but the Ornelaz Plaintiffs did not amend.
In the related matter (Case No. 23BBCV00602, the “Talamantes
Action”), on March 15, 2023, Plaintiffs Rosa Talamantes, individually and as
successor-in-interest to decedent Modesto Talamantes; and Jacob Talamantes
(collectively, the “Talamantes Plaintiffs”), filed the complaint asserting
causes of action for negligence, negligence-common carrier, negligent
entrustment, negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, and loss of
consortium against Defendants Amadeus F. Segura, Hector Ruiz Roa, Isabel Segura,
Luis Segura Trucking, Inc., Pibe’s, Segura Logistics Inc., Torlak Segura
Transportation, Inc, and Does 1 through 20. On August 28, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint.
Luis Segura Trucking Inc. and Pibe’s each filed answers
in the Talamantes Action in September 2023.
On December 1, 2023, the Court determined that the two
actions are related.  Both cases are now
assigned to Department 29 in the Spring Street Courthouse.
On January 18, 2024, Pibe’s filed this motion to
consolidate the cases for all purposes. 
No party has filed any opposition to the motion.
Legal
Standard
“When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (a).)
 The trial court should not consolidate actions
where prejudice would result any party, e.g., when consolidation would cause a
litigant to need to adopt adverse litigations positions in a single trial.  (See State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 430.)
Per Local Rule
3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the
same department.  A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the
cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters
that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
Pibe’s requests an order consolidating for
all purposes the Ornelaz Action and the Talamantes Action.  Both cases appear to arise out of the same accident
and there is a considerable overlap in the defendants and the claims asserted
against them.
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350 sets
forth a number of procedural requirements for a motion to consolidate.  Those requirements are not satisfied
here.  
Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1)(C) requires
that the notice of motion “must … [b]e filed in each case sought to be
consolidated.”  No notice of motion was
filed in the Talamantes Action.
Rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(2)(B) requires
that the motion “[m]ust be served on all attorneys of record and all
nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated.”  The proof of service of the motion (filed on
January 18) shows service on counsel for the Ornelaz Plaintiffs and the named
defendants who have appeared but no service on counsel for the Talamantes
Plaintiffs.
Accordingly, the Court must deny the motion to
consolidate.  The denial is based on a
procedural defect and therefore is without prejudice. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES the motion to consolidate without
prejudice.
Moving Party to give notice.