 Case Number:  22STCV38747    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiff
Jack Parker. 
 
Tentative
The motion for leave to amend is granted.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged
assault at a nightclub on May 7, 2022. 
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff Jack Parker (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint in this action against Potions & Poisons, Inc., Oxford Center,
Solomon Kim, Sara H. Kim, and Does 1 through 50.  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for
assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress against Does
1 through 50; and asserts against all defendants causes of action for negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, premises liability, and false
imprisonment.
Defendants Potions & Poisons,
Inc., Solomon Kim, and Sara H. Kim filed their Answer on January 26, 2023.
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff amended
his complaint to name Joshua Marcus Wilson as Doe 1.
Defendant Oxford Center, LLC
(erroneously sued as Oxford Center) (“Oxford”) filed its Answer on May 12,
2023.
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). In the
proposed FAC, Plaintiff seeks to add factual allegations specific to Oxford in
the negligence and premises liability causes of action and to remove Oxford as
a defendant in the causes of action for negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention and false imprisonment.
Oxford filed its opposition to the
motion on December 29.  Plaintiff filed
his reply on January 5, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading must (1) include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
Rule 3.1324(b)
requires that a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify
(1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  
Even an
otherwise proper amendment may not be permitted if there has been a long,
unwarranted and unexcused delay that causes prejudice to the opposing party.  Among the factors that a court may consider
are (1) the diligence or lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in
offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay
on the adverse party.  If the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Discussion
In the
proposed FAC, Plaintiff seeks to remove Oxford as a defendant on the Fifth
Cause of Action (for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention) and the
Seventh Cause of Action (for false imprisonment).  Plaintiff also seeks to remove the prayer for
punitive damages as against Oxford and the Doe defendants.  The Court assumes that Oxford has no
objection to these proposed amendments.
Plaintiff
also seeks to add specific factual allegations against Oxford in the Fourth Cause
of Action (for negligence) and Sixth Cause of Action (for premises liability).  Paraphrasing, the gist of the new allegations
is that Oxford acted negligently in not requiring its commercial tenant, defendant
Potions & Poisons, Inc., to provide proof of insurance coverage that would
apply to the injuries allegedly sustained by Plaintiff.
Courts
are directed to exercise liberality in granting motions for leave to
amend.  Here, Plaintiff has shown a
sufficient basis to amend his complaint and is in compliance with the
procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324.  
Accordingly,
leave to amend is granted.
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint attached to
their motion within 10 days. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.