 Case Number:  23STCV14619    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File Supplemental Complaint filed by
Plaintiffs Joedamian Franco, Jr., Monica Alvarado, Jenitcy Franco, a minor, by
and through Guardian Ad Litem, Monica Alvarado.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Plaintiffs
Joedamian Franco, Jr., Monica Alvarado, Jenitcy Franco, a minor, by and through
Guardian Ad Litem, Monica Alvarado (“Plaintiffs”) filed their complaint on June
22, 2023, against Devin Gaston, and Does 1 to 25 for the causes of action (1)
General Negligence and Motor Vehicle Negligence, based on a motor vehicle
accident on September 3, 2021. 
 
On
October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave to file a Supplement
Complaint. No opposition has been filed as no proof of service has been filed,
and Defendant has not yet appeared in this matter.
 
The
hearing was originally set for January 11, 2024, but was continued to February
15, 2024. No additional filings were made in the interim.
 
Legal
Standard
CCP § 464(a)
provides: “The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material to
the case occurring after the former complaint or answer.” Further, “[u]pon the
filing of a supplemental complaint, the court clerk shall issue an amended or
supplemental summons pursuant to Section 412.10. Service of the supplemental
summons and complaint shall be made in the manner provided for the initial
service of a summons by this code.” (CCP § 464(c).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
seeks leave to supplement their complaint as Plaintiff Jenitcy Franco, who was
a minor when the Complaint was filed, has reached the of majority. (Won Decl.,
¶ 2(a).) A supplemental complaint is necessary to remove the allegations of
minority of Plaintiff Jenitcy. (Id., ¶ 2(d).) Further, this supplemental
complaint will correct a typographical error in the naming of Plaintiff Monica
Alvarado, as her name is misspelt in the original complaint. (Id., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff includes a copy of the proposed supplemental complaint. (Exhibit A.) 
 
No
opposition has been filed as no Defendant has appeared in this matter.
 
Plaintiffs
have shown good cause for the motion.  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file supplemental complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file supplemental complaint is GRANTED. 
 
The
Court GRANTS LEAVE to Plaintiffs to file the supplemental complaint attached to
their moving papers within 10 days.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.