 Case Number:  21STCV28191    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  74 Kevin Blackman v. Transdev Services,
Inc., et al.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Production of Business Records Pursuant to Subpoena to Third-Party Prevalent
Logistics, Inc.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute. 
            On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Kevin
Blackman (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Transdev Services,
Inc., Transdev North America, Inc., and Timothy Grensavitch (Defendants). 
            The complaint alleges race
discrimination, disability discrimination, racial harassment, disability
harassment, retaliation under Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), failure
to prevent harassment, discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, retaliation
under Labor Code section 1102.5, constructive discharge in violation of public
policy, violation of Civil Code section 43, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, failure to provide reasonable accommodation, and failure to engage in
the interactive process.
            On November 7, 2023, Defendants
served Third-Party Prevalent Logistics, Inc. (Prevalent) with a subpoena.
            Prevalent never responded or
objected to the subpoena.
            In January 2024, Defendants followed
up multiple times. But Defendants’ efforts were to no avail.
            On March 12, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion to compel production of business records pursuant to the subpoena. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            “If
a deponent fails to […] produce any document […] under the deponent’s control
that is specified in […] a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may
move the court for an order compelling that […] production.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.480, subd. (a).) 
            “The
court shall impose monetary sanction […] against any […] person […] who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants seek Plaintiff’s payroll
records and personnel file pursuant to a subpoena Defendants issued to
Prevalent. As a preliminary matter, the court finds Defendants have good cause
for the documents sought. Because Prevalent has not responded or objected to
the subpoena, the court grants Defendants’ motion to compel production of
documents. Moreover, sanctions are warranted because Prevalent has not
demonstrated that it acted with substantial justification in a timely
opposition. Defendants’ counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, and she has
substantiated her request with a breakdown of work performed. (Scott Decl., ¶¶
12-14.)
CONCLUSION
              The court grants Defendants’ motion
to compel Prevalent Logistics, Inc.’s production of business records pursuant
to the subpoena. Prevalent Logistics, Inc. shall produce the business records
within 30 days of this order. The court grants Defendants’ request for sanctions.
Prevalent Logistics, Inc shall pay Defendants’ counsel attorney fees in the sum
of $1,252.50 within 30 days of this order.
              Defendants shall give notice.