 Case Number:  21CMCV00214    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  A 21CMCV00214
 Tabitha Patton v. Romona King, et al.
Thursday, November
 2, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT, ROMONA KING AKA ROMONA KING TO PROVIDE
 FURTHER RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET
 ONE AND FOR SANCTIONS
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING
 DEFENDANT, ROMONA KING AKA ROMONA KING TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO
 SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE AND FOR SANCTIONS

 
 
 
 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The verified, first
amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges that Defendant, Romona King (“King”), forged Plaintiff’s
signature on a quitclaim deed purporting to transfer Plaintiff’s 50 percent
interest in real property to Defendant, leaving Defendant as the sole owner of
the property. Plaintiff alleges claims for (1) forgery, (2) cancellation of
instrument, (3) quiet title, (4) slander of title, (5) fraudulent concealment,
(6) theft, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (8)
declaratory and injunctive relief.         
II.     
ARGUMENTS
A.     
Special interrogatories, Set One
      Plaintiff
moves for an order for Defendant to further supplement Defendant’s supplemental
responses to Set One Special Interrogatories Nos. 5, 7, 9, and 11 and for an
order imposing sanctions. The supplemental responses are incomplete. Defense
counsel refused to meet and confer and ignored 19 telephone calls and numerous
emails, which he opened but to which he did not respond.
      In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff already knows the address
information for potential witnesses. The special interrogatories impermissibly
include subparts. Defendant is 80-years old, lives in Tennessee, doesn’t have a
computer, and cannot send emails. Defendant contends Plaintiff is trying to
prevent Defendant from testifying. There is no “right answer” as far as
Plaintiff is concerned. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff argues that it is defense counsel’s failure to meet and confer
that forced Plaintiff to file this motion. The requests fall within the broad
scope of discovery. Defendant is required to provide complete responses.
 
B.     
Request for production of documents, set one.
      At
issue are document requests 5, 9-14, 17-24, and 26-32. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s objections are without merit. The objections are followed by Defendant’s
assertion that she does not have possession of the requested documents. Defendant
argues that she made an objectively reasonable and good faith effort to respond
as the requested documents were never in Defendant’s possession.
 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      A party can move to compel a
further response to interrogatories or a request for production of documents
where the party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, or an exercise of
the option to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or an objection
is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a); §
2031.310(a)). 
      The special
interrogatories at issue request identification and location information of
people with whom Defendant communicated, including Stacey King and Lourdez
Michelle Madison, about Plaintiff’s ownership interest in the real property and
all persons involved in signing the 2013 quitclaim deed.
      Plaintiff
defined “identify” to include a person’s name, home address, cell and home
telephone numbers, and email address. Defendant’s responses are evasive and
fail to fully answer the question. Instead of providing location information,
Defendant discloses the number of times Defendant spoke with the identified
person. Defendant does not provide complete information with respect to communications
between Defendant and identified persons including whether the communication
was oral, written, or electronic.
      With
respect to the document request, Defendant is required to provide a
privilege log of all the documents at issue and the specific objection so that
the court can determine whether a privilege applies. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.240 subd. (b).) The privilege log must contain clear descriptions of the
documents as set forth in the statute.  
      As to
any discovery request, it is not permissible for Defendant to refer Plaintiff
to other documents that purportedly provide the response. (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) Nor is the contention that
“Plaintiff already knows the answer” a proper response. (Coy
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 218 [“No
rule or authority is cited which authorizes refusal to answer an interrogatory
simply on the ground that the answer is known to the party seeking the
information.”].) Even where responding party does not have the requested
information, “I don’t know” is not a proper response and is “an open invitation
to sanctions.” (Deyo
at, 783.) The responding party must
“set forth the efforts made to secure the information. He cannot plead
ignorance to information which can be obtained from sources under his control.”
(Deyo
at 782.) 
      Defendant
has not provided substantial reasons for failing to provide further
supplemental responses to Set One Special Interrogatories or to provide full and
verified initial responses to Set One Request for Production of Documents
including privilege logs, or for failing to communicate with Plaintiff to
informally resolve the issues all of which are misuses of the discovery
process, warranting imposition of sanctions, the latter of which is the most
egregious.
      Failing
(despite over 19 attempts) to respond in good faith to efforts to meet and confer
is a misuse of the discovery process as is making unmeritorious objections,
evasive responses, and failing to show substantial justification for opposing a
motion to compel. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) Defendant’s arguments in opposition were never
raised with Plaintiff’s counsel during a meet and confer process which never
occurred.  Discovery is “intended to
operate with a minimum of judicial intervention,” and a “central precept” of
the Civil Discovery Act is that discovery be self-executing. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 402.)  Instead of
complying with the Discovery Act, Defendant’s refusal to meet and confer
results in requiring the court to preside over efforts to informally resolve
discovery disputes, which unnecessarily burdens court resources. 
      Accordingly,
the Court imposes the following monetary sanctions against Defendant and
counsel of record, Law Office of Stephen Backus joint and severally. The Court
finds that four hours to prepare each of two motions and one hour to prepare a
reply for each motion at $450 per hour is reasonable.  



Prepare Motion:
  Special Interrogatories, Set 1.


$450 x 5


$2,250.00




     Filing fee


 


61.65




Prepare Motion:
  Request for Production of Documents, Set 1


$450 x 5


2,250.00




     Filing fee + reschedule fee


 


81.90




Appear at the hearing
  on both motions


$450 x 2


900.00




Total for two motions


 


$5,543.55



 
      The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request to impose issue, evidentiary, and/or
terminating sanctions. More severe sanctions are to be used “sparingly because
of the drastic effect of their application.” (Department
of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154,
191.) Such sanctions may be imposed “as a first measure in extreme cases,
or where the record shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” (Id.
at 191–192.)
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motions For Orders
 Compelling Defendant, Romona King Aka Romona King to Provide Further Responses
 to Supplemental Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and for
 Sanctions and Compelling Defendant, Romona King Aka Romona King, to
 Provide Further Responses to Supplemental Responses to Special
 Interrogatories, Set One and for Sanctions
      Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, complete, and Code-compliant supplemental
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objection within 10
days. Defendant is ordered to provide verified, complete, and Code-compliant, further
responses and production to Request for Production, Set One within 10 days. Defendant
and defense counsel are ordered to pay total sanctions of $5,543.55 to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 10 days. 
 