 Case Number:  21CMCV00267    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  A 21CMCV00267
 GP Trading Partners, LLV v. Midas Express, et al.
Thursday,
 November 2, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
SPECIAL
 MOTION TO STRIKE THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT AND/OR ALLEGATIONS THEREIN;
 REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES  
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY
DEFENDANT, MIDAS EXPRESS, INC., TO CONTINUE PRE-TRIAL DEADLINES
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY
CROSS-DEFENDANT MIDAS EXPRESS, INC. TO EXTEND THE DEADLINE TO APPLY FOR A
DEFAULT JUDGMENT AGAINST CROSS-DEFENDANT, CAST GROUP, LLC UNTIL TWO WEEKS AFTER
THE CONCLUSION OF TRIAL IN THE UNDERLYING LITIGATION
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       This
action arises from the alleged conversion of a container of gloves, purchased
by Plaintiff and stored at a warehouse owned by Defendant, Midas Express, Inc.,
(“Midas”). The operative third amended complaint (“TAC”) alleges that Midas
wrongfully transferred the container to the sellers, Paz Global Ventures, LLC
(“Paz”) and Cast Group, LLC (“Cast”) (collectively, “Sellers”). Plaintiff
alleges claims for declaratory relief, negligence, conversion, injunctive
relief, and violation of Penal Code § 496 (receiving stolen property).
       On
June 20, 2023, Midas filed an Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) adding a new
claim for fraud to the previously filed claim for equitable indemnity and fraud
against the sellers, Cast and Paz.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Cross-defendant
Paz moves to strike portions of the FAXC because the fraud claim is based in
part on a statement made by Paz in its verified answer in another proceeding
affirming that Global owns the gloves. Paz contends that the alleged statement
cannot be the basis for liability because Paz is privileged to assert defenses.
The common-interest privilege also applies to preclude liability based on the
asserted defenses. The privilege will not apply if Midas shows Paz acted with malice.
Therefore, the FAXC is forcing Paz to defend against the claim of malice, which
burdens Paz’s petitioning rights. 
       In
opposition, Midas argues that the motion is untimely filed. The FAXC does not
arise from protected activity. The Court already determined the common-interest
privilege does not apply. The motion is without merit and filed to cause delay,
for which the Court should impose sanctions. 
       In
reply, Paz argues that the FAXC is a “pleading artifice” that rests on Midas’s
misuse of Paz’s privileged filings in New York’s courts.  The Court determined that the common-interest
privilege doesn’t apply based on the alleged facts, which the Court was bound
to accept as true. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The anti-SLAPP
statute codified at Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 provides that any
act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the
United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a
public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court
determines that the plaintiff has established a probability that the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(b).) 
       The
moving parties bear the initial burden of establishing that the challenged
allegations or claims “arise from protected activity in which the defendant has
engaged.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11
Cal.5th 995, 1009.) The trial courts “consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for liability. (Park Board
of Trustees of the California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th
at p. 1063.) The defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged
claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily
defined category of protected activity.” (Id.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
motion must be filed within 60 days after service of the complaint or amended
complaint or a later time in the Court’s discretion on terms it deems proper. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16 (f).) Cross-Complainant electronically
served the FAXC on June 20, 2023, giving Paz 60 days plus two court days to
file this motion, in this case by August 22, 2023, the same date when Paz filed
this motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1013 (g).) Therefore, the motion is timely
filed. 
       The
fraud claim arises from a September 23, 2021, letter (“2021 Letter”) sent by
Paz to Midas, wherein Paz stated that Paz owned the goods in the container and
directed Midas to release it to Defendant Cast. (FAXC ¶ 43.) Midas relied on Paz’s
representation and gave the goods to Cast. Midas contends the facts in the 2021
Letter were made with knowledge of falsity because in another proceeding, Paz
stated that Paz did not own the gloves, and rather, Plaintiff owned the gloves.
(FAXC ¶ 43.) 
       Paz
contends that the affirmative defense asserted in the NY case is privileged for
purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16.) Pursuant to
that statute, any written or oral
statement or writing made before a judicial proceeding is protected activity.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 subd. (e)(1).) The
court examines the pleadings and supporting affidavits stating the facts on
which liability is based. (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 82, 89.)
Here, liability for the fraud claim is not “based”
on protected activity, as Midas expressly alleged it relied on the 2021 Letter.

       Paz
argues that it was privileged to file its verified answer in a New York case
known as GP Trading Partners v. Saadia Shapiro. Paz asserted in an affirmative
defense that the container actually belonged to Plaintiff which contradicted
the 2021 Letter. As Midas’ claim does not arise from the filings made in New
York, whether that activity is “protected” is irrelevant. To be clear, the
fraud claim arises from the 2021 Letter allegedly sent by Paz to Midas, and
upon which Midas reasonably relied upon causing damage, as it implicates Midas for
Plaintiff’s loss as Midas gave away the gloves, albeit at Paz’s alleged instruction.

       Paz
contends that the Court determined in ruling on Paz’s demurrer to the FAXC,
that the fraud claim “necessarily turns” on the allegation that Paz made
certain admissions in the NY case. What the claim “turns on” is not the
relevant inquiry; the Court determines whether the fraud claim “arises from”
protected activity which "means simply that the defendant's act underlying
the plaintiff's cause of action must itself have been an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (Governor
Gray Davis Com. v. American Taxpayers Alliance
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 457.) 
       Paz
next contends that it is immune from liability for statements made in NY based on
the common-interest privilege which is the same argument Paz advanced when it
demurred to the FAXC. The qualified
privilege is recognized in situations where the "communicator and the
recipient have a common interest and the communication is of a kind reasonably
calculated to protect or further that interest.’" (Klem
v. Access Ins. Co. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 595, 617.) The
statute defines privileged communication as one made without malice. (Civ. Code, § 47 (c).)        Whether
that privilege applies to bar the fraud claim is not at issue here. Paz appears
to argue that the fraud claim burdens Paz’s right to assert a defense in the NY
action. This does mean that the fraud claim arises from anything that occurred
in the NY action. That it may have an effect on the fraud claim does not mean
the liability arises from it. 
       The FAXC makes clear that Midas intends
to rely on judicial admissions subsequently made by Paz to prove an element of
its claim for fraud: falsity. Paz appears to be arguing that the fraud claim
burdens its right to assert a defense in the NY action with facts that could
potentially prove Midas’ claim. According to Paz’s cited authority, a claim may
be struck under the anti-SLAPP statute “only if the speech or petitioning
activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of
liability or a step leading to some different act for which liability is
asserted.” (Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7
Cal.5th 871, 890.) 
       In Jespersen
v. Zubiate-Beauchamp (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 624, 631–632, the court
considered whether evidence of a defendant’s conduct contained in a declaration
filed in a judicial proceeding is the protected free speech or petition from
which respondents' cause of action arises. The Court rejected the defendant’s
argument and concluded “[a]lthough [defendant’s] logic escapes us, it is
apparently based upon the fact that such evidence was a written statement filed
in a judicial proceeding.” (Id.) The court concluded that the
Plaintiff’s claims did not arise from such filings. Paz did not cite any
authority that a party’s reliance on judicial admissions to prove a claim is barred
because a party is privileged to make statements in litigation.
In reply, Paz argues that the entire FAXC is mere “artifice”; that Midas
excluded facts showing that Paz made an innocent mistake in the 2021 Letter and
that Paz’s explanation for the letter is consistent with the affirmative
defense asserted in the NY case. Paz argues that Midas “invented” this
narrative for the purpose of forcing Paz to prove that the letter was not
malicious in order to trigger the common-interest privilege.
As the Court understands Paz’s argument, Midas failed to allege
“factual circumstances” to prove that Paz’s affirmative defense is consistent
with those facts, and that Midas’ failure to do so demonstrates that Midas “invented
the circumstances” in order to use the judicial admissions as evidence to prove
fraud. The Court is not required to consider evidence of Midas’ purported bad
faith motive in bringing this action in the first instance assuming Paz could
provide it. 
If the Court denies the motion to strike the Court may award costs to
the opposing party if it finds that the special motion to strike is frivolous
or is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16
(c).) While Paz’s motion is at times muddled, disjointed, and illogical, the
Court cannot determine it was frivolous or intended to cause delay. 
V.     
CONCLUSION

As Paz has not met its initial burden of establishing
the fraud claim arises from protected activity in the first instance, the
burden does not shift to Midas to establish a probability of prevailing on the
fraud claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16 (b) (1); Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 396.) Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED. Midas’ request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY
DEFENDANT, MIDAS EXPRESS, INC., TO CONTINUE PRE-TRIAL DEADLINES
 
I.       
ARGUMENTS
       Midas
asks that the Court move all pre-trial and trial-related deadlines including
discovery and expert discovery cutoffs to be based on the new trial date of May
8, 2024. The prior trial date was October 23, 2023. Midas needs that additional
time to complete discovery because Paz’s anti-SLAPP motion to strike stayed
discovery for nearly two months past all deadlines. Plaintiff indicates it will
not oppose the motion.
       Paz
argues that Midas did not meet the legal standard for reopening discovery. Midas
has already given PMQ testimony which is fatal to this case. Midas is wasting
judicial resources. Reopening discovery would be futile. 
       In
reply, Midas argues that it is not asking to reopen discovery, rather,
discovery was open on August 22, 2023, and but stayed until the anti-SLAPP
motion was heard. Discovery had never closed. Midas has shown good cause to
support moving all cut-off dates. The merits of the case as Paz believes them
to be is not a reason to avoid discovery. 
 
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
Court has discretion to grant leave to complete discovery or hear discovery
motions closer to the initial trial date. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) The Court considers the necessity
and reasons for discovery, the moving party’s diligence or lack of diligence,
the likelihood that the matter will be prevented from going to trial, and the
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set for trial. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050 (b).)
III.   
DISCUSSION
       Midas
has submitted a declaration in support of the motion showing an attempt to meet
and confer with Paz to stipulate to the continued deadlines, based on the May
8, 2024, trial date. Counsel for Paz indicated that Paz intended to file a
second Motion for Summary Judgment and that it would only agree to discovery
after that motion was resolved. (Burstein Decl., 6, 7.)
       Based
on the prior trial date of October 23, 2023, discovery was required to be
completed by September 23, 2023 (30 days before trial) and the cut-off date for
discovery motions was October 8, 2023 (15 days before trial). Paz filed its
anti-SLAPP motion on August 22, 2023, with a hearing set for November 2, 2023.
The filing of the anti-SLAPP motion stays discovery proceedings, and the stay remains
in effect until notice of entry of the order ruling on the motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16 (g).). As a result, all discovery,
discovery-related motions, and deadlines for trial-related documents and motions
have passed, and Midas was precluded from conducting any discovery. (Burstein
declaration.) 
       There
is no evidence of Midas’ lack of diligence since the discovery stay was imposed
by law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16). The deadlines elapsed through no fault of
Midas. These facts support continuing all deadlines closer to the continued
trial date in order that the parties can meaningfully prepare for trial. 
IV.   
CONCLUSION

       Based on the foregoing, Midas’ motion is
GRANTED. The Court continues all pre-trial and trial-related deadlines to be
calculated from the presently set trial date of May 8, 2024. 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY CROSS-DEFENDANT
MIDAS EXPRESS, INC. TO EXTEND THE DEADLINE TO APPLY FOR A DEFAULT JUDGMENT
AGAINST CROSS-DEFENDANT, CAST GROUP, LLC UNTIL TWO WEEKS AFTER THE CONCLUSION
OF TRIAL IN THE UNDERLYING LITIGATION.
 
       The
unopposed motion requests a continuance because Midas’ damages on the
Cross-Complainant cannot be determined until the trial between it and Plaintiff.
Midas cannot apply for a default judgment until Plaintiff’s claims are
resolved. 
       A
default judgment must be obtained within 45 days that default was entered. (Cal
Rules of Court, rule 3.110(h). However, the Court has discretion to extend
time. (Id.) 
       Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS MIDAS’ motion to extend the deadline to two
weeks after the conclusion of trial. The Court sets an OSC re Default for Click or tap here to enter text.
at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the
Compton Courthouse.
 
 