 Case Number:  22CMCV00340    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  A 22CMCV00340
 City of Compton v. San Pedro Mo, et al.
Thursday,
November
 2, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
MOTION
 OF RECEIVER, THEODORE LANES, FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING ISSUANCE OF A RECEIVER’S
 CERTIFICATE, APPROVE THE LISTING AGREEMENT, AND AUTHORIZING APPOINTMENT OF
 RECEIVER’S COUNSEL
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint filed on September 28, 2022, alleges that Defendant, San Pedro Mo,
LLC, (“San Pedro”) whose manager is Mikel Haghnazarzadeh, owns real property in
San Pedro. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants are operating a marijuana business
at the property without a license. Plaintiff alleges claims for abatement,
nuisance, for various Code violations, and related statutory violations. On
July 7, 2023, the Court appointed Theodore Lanes as receiver (“Receiver”) to take
possession of the property and abate the nuisance. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       The
Receiver was given authority to sell the property. The Receiver requests an
order to approve a Receiver’s Certificate to secure a line of credit for
$100,000, to pay expenses incurred in securing the property and to improve it
in preparation for sale. The Receiver requests the Court’s approval to retain
Buchalter, a Professional Corporation, to serve as the Receiver’s counsel for
litigation matters. 
       On
October 23, 2023, Defendants, San Pedro Mo’s, and Mikel Haghazarzadeh
(“Defendants”), filed their opposition to object to the Receiver’s “drastic
measures.” The receivership should be terminated because the Receiver has
completed his work by removing the tenants, seizing the property, and securing
the property. There is no evidence for why the Receivership should continue. 
       In
reply, the Receiver objects to the untimely opposition. The Receiver’s work is
necessary and ongoing. The Receiver’s duties were not limited to removing
marijuana from the property. The Receiver was required to abate conditions,
identify any necessary remediation, and prepare a plan for the Court. 
 
III. DISCUSSION
       A receiver has authority to borrow funds
to pay for repairs necessary to correct conditions cited in the notice of
violation. (Health &
Saf. Code, § 17980.7 (c)(4)(g).) With court approval, the receiver may secure that
debt and any funds owed to the receiver for services performed with a lien on
the property. (Id.) 
       The Receiver’s first report, to which
Defendants did not object, disclosed that the Receiver was soliciting bids for
a Receiver’s Certificate. While the Court approved an 8% interest rate, the
Receiver reported that the rate may need to be revised to 12%. (1st
Report filed 8/18/23), 3:25 – 2. The report also disclosed the Receiver’s
intent to retain contractors to sell the real property. (Id. 4:5-8.) 
       Funding is required to maximize the
property’s sale value, make improvements, and pay for receivership expenses.
(Lanes decl, ¶ 3.) The Receiver is authorized to borrow funds to
pay for repairs and to correct the conditions which debt may be secured with a
lien on the real property. (Health
& Saf. Code, § 17980.7 (c)(4)(G).)
       The Receiver contacted six different
lenders, all of whom declined to offer lending terms because the property was
previously used as a dispensary and because of the low amount of the funding
request. (Id. ¶ 4.) Marin Financing offered a $100,000 line of credit at
18% interest for 12 months, which the Receiver has negotiated to 15% charged
only on the amounts borrowed. (Id. ¶ 7.) Marin Financing provided a
Conditional Commitment for Receivership Certificate. (Id. Ex. A.)  The Receiver finds that the lending terms are
reasonable given the dilapidated condition of the property and history of
illicit use.
       The Receiver has negotiated a listing
agreement for a four percent fee to list and sell the property within an
approximately 90-day listing period. (Id. ¶ 10.)
       The Receiver’s second report does not
differ in substance except to inform that the Receiver has received a $350,000
all cash offer. (Receiver’s 2d report filed 10/26/23.)
       Receivers are entitled to compensation
for their own services as well as those of its counsel, which are generally
paid from the property in the receivership estate.” (City of Chula
Vista v. Gutierrez (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 681, 685.) A receiver cannot employ an
attorney without court approval. (California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1180.) Here, the Court authorized the Receiver to “retain legal
counsel to represent him and assist him with the performance of his duties as
set forth herein. All reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the
hiring and retention of such personnel and counsel shall be expenses of and
paid for by the Defendants.”  (Ord. filed
9/14/22, 6:28-23.)  
       The Court has considered Defendants’
opposition belatedly filed on October 23, 2023, although it was due on October
20, 2023 (nine Court days before the hearing). (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005(b).) The
Receiver has not suffered any prejudice from the late filing and has been able
to file a reply brief, which the Court has considered. The Court considers the
late opposition in favor of the policy of deciding issues on the merits. (Kapitanski v. Von’s (1983) 146
Cal.App.3d 29, 32.)
       The Order Appointing Receiver requires
Court approval of a Rehabilitation Plan and Cost Estimate, identification of
conditions that require remediation as may be discovered by the Receiver in the
course of inspections, “and to seek court approval of that plan.” (Order filed
6/18/23 5:18-23). The two reports filed by the Receiver do not include a
Rehabilitation Plan and Cost estimate for the Court’s approval. 
       The Court is unable to meaningfully evaluate
the Receiver’s request without information of the condition of the property,
the results of the inspection, the approximate costs and estimates to remediate
and/or abate conditions, among all other information to be disclosed in the
Rehabilitation Plan and Cost Estimate.
 
III.    CONCLUSION
       Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that this motion is premature. The Receiver is ordered to submit a
Rehabilitation Plan and Cost Estimate to be submitted for the Court’s approval.

 
       
       
 
 