

 
            On June 5,
2023, Plaintiff Paulo
Agras (Plaintiff) purchased a 2023
Chevrolet Silverado (Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges that, at the time of the
purchase, his Vehicle contained defects covered under the express warranty and that
Defendant General Motors LLC (GM) failed to repair the Vehicle in compliance
with the warranty. Plaintiff also claims that Defendant GM’s fraudulent conduct
contributed to his decision to purchase the Vehicle. 
 
On July 2,
2024, Plaintiff sued Defendant GM. The First Amended Complaint contains causes
of action for breach of warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act, a fraud
claim, and a claim for violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA). 
 
            Defendant GM now demurs to the third
cause of action for fraud and the fourth cause of action for the violation of
the CLRA. Defendant GM also moves to strike the request for punitive damages.
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion to strike. 
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer with leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Third Cause of Action for Fraud:
 
Defendant GM argues that the
fraudulent concealment claims contained within the third cause of action fails
to state a claim.
 
            The
Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to support fraudulent concealment.
 
            Defendant
argues that the FAC does not state a claim because Plaintiff has not alleged
fraud with the requisite specificity and the allegations are insufficient to
demonstrate a duty to disclose.
 
            Defendant contends
that the FAC fails to allege  (i) the
identity of the salespersons who purportedly concealed material facts about his
Vehicle, (ii) what advertisements or marketing brochures Plaintiff reviewed or
relied upon in purchasing the Subject Vehicle, (iii) how long “prior to
purchasing the Vehicle” he viewed them, and which representation therein he
relied upon; and (iv) whether those materials, if any, were prepared by GM or
someone else. (Dem., 8:18-9:6.)
 
            To state a
claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the
defendant “concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was
“under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant
“intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted
as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
310-311.) 
 
            As a
preliminary matter, Plaintiff adequately alleges the concealment of material
fact: the defective transmission. (FAC ¶ 23 [“Had
Plaintiff known about the Defective Transmission prior to or at the time of the
purchase, Plaintiff would not have purchased the Vehicle or would have paid
substantially less for it.”]; 112.) Based on this material fact, the allegation
claiming Defendant intended to induce reliance and to defraud are adequate. (FAC
¶¶ 111-112.)
 
Also, Defendant GM’s argument that
the concealment is not alleged with adequate specificity is also not
well-taken. 
 
The ordinary rule about pleading
fraud with specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud is concealing
the truth. Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud
occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity requirement is to
“separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of
trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.)  
 
Some cases,
however, conclude that this standard is less stringent when the defendant
already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in
a concealment case.  Unlike
intentional misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation
or promise, a fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the
suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
 
This
distinction was recognized in Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103
Cal.App.2d 651. In rejecting a demurrer based on uncertainty,
the Turner court explained that the uncertainty doctrine does
not apply when the facts are known by the demurring party:
 
The only
specification of uncertainty was that it could not be determined how, or in
what manner, Milstein concealed from plaintiff the time and place of
the sale of the real property. The ultimate fact is pleaded. It is an old and
elemental rule of pleading that a demurrer for uncertainty does not lie if what
is sought is a statement of matter already within the knowledge of the
demurring party.... If, in truth, Milstein concealed from plaintiff
the fact that the property was to be sold, he knows it and he knows the time
and place of concealment, if there was a time and place. It would seem
that concealment is negative and that it would occur without any time
or place. Milstein knows the facts. 
(103
Cal.App.2d at p. 658.)
 
            Thus, based
on the nature of this type of claim, a plaintiff in a fraud by omission suit
will not be able to specify the time, place, and specific content of an
omission as precisely as would a plaintiff in a false representation claim.
Here, the Court cannot conclude that the contents of the alleged concealment
was not pleaded with the adequate level of specificity. 
 
            However,
Defendant also argues that the FAC does not adequately allege facts showing a duty
to disclose. 
            
Absent a fiduciary relationship
between the parties (which Plaintiff does not allege here), a duty to disclose
can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p.
311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California
Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty
to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”].)
 
Defendant GM argues there are no
facts alleged that would support a duty to disclose. The FAC contains no
allegations of any direct dealing with GM. Instead, the FAC alleges Plaintiff
visited and purchased the Vehicle from Penske Chevrolet of Cerritos in
Cerritos, California. (FAC ¶ 31.) 
 
 In opposition, Plaintiff argues that GM had
exclusive knowledge of the Defective Transmission. In support, Plaintiff argues
that the dealer’s warranty agreement with GM and use of GM marketing materials create
a sufficient transactional relationship, citing Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844. (Opp. 11:24-12:13.) 
 
Dhital found that
the plaintiffs’ statutory warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act were the
equivalent of contract claims for the purposes of determining whether the
economic loss rule applies. This did not, however, establish a duty to
disclose. (Dhital, 84 Cal. App. 5th at 838, fn. 3.) Only later in its
decision did the Dhital court state that the plaintiffs’ allegations
were sufficient to overcome the defendant's argument that there was no
buyer-seller relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose. (Id. at
844.) The Dhital court explained that the plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged that the requisite buyer-seller relationship existed because the
plaintiffs had alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership,
Nissan backed the purchase with an express warranty, and Nissan's authorized
dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
customers. (Id.) 
 
In this
case, Plaintiff’s allegations are distinguishable because Plaintiff does not
allege that he bought the Vehicle from a GM dealership. (FAC ¶ 31.) Thus,
Plaintiff has not pled a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to
disclose. 
 
Further, the FAC does not adequately
allege GM’s exclusive knowledge of the Transmission Defect that Plaintiff purchased.
Although Plaintiff cites Paragraphs 7, 12, 15-21, 32, 33, 39, 41-48, 55-67,
70-73, 105-112, these citations do not contain factual allegations – as opposed
to conclusory statements – to support the exclusive knowledge about a Transmission
Defect in Plaintiff’s specific Vehicle. (FAC ¶ 41.)
This is a ground for sustaining the
demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
            
Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of California's
Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA):
 
Defendant GM also demurs to the fourth
cause of action for violation of CLRA on the grounds the claim fails to allege
compliance with the notice requirement of Civil Code section 1782 and the allegations
lack the requisite specificity. 
 
The CLRA prohibits certain “unfair
methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by
any person in a transaction intended to result or which results in the sale or
lease of goods or services.”  (Civ. Code, § 1770.) The elements of a
CLRA claim are: (i) a consumer; (ii) who suffers any damage; (iii) because of
the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice declared to
be unlawful by Civil Code section 1770. (Civ. Code, § 1780(a).) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that GM violated the CLRA based on the same allegations as the fraud
claim. (FAC ¶¶ 113-133.)  Specifically, Plaintiff’s CLRA claim is based on GM’s
allegedly fraudulent omission pertaining to the Vehicle’s transmission. (FAC ¶
33.)
 
            When claims
under CLRA are based on allegations of fraudulent concealment or omissions,
they “must be stated with reasonable particularity, which is a more lenient
pleading standard than is applied to common law fraud claims.” (Gutierrez,
supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at p. 1261.) A plaintiff must plead with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the elements of the violation. (See Khoury
v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
However, like a common law fraud
claim, a CLRA claim may arise from fraudulent concealment or omission, but to
be actionable, “the omission must be contrary to a representation actually made
by the defendant, or an omission of fact the defendant was obliged to
disclose.” (Daughtery v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 824, 835; Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores Cal. (2018)
19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1258.) That is, a failure to disclose a fact constitutes a
deceptive practice actionable under the CLRA “when the defendant is the
plaintiff's fiduciary, when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff, and when the
defendant actively conceals a material fact.” (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto
Superstores California, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1258.) 
 
            Here, as
noted above with respect to the fraudulent omission claim, the allegations in
the FAC are conclusory and lacking in ultimate facts. Thus, these allegations
are insufficient to demonstrate either superior knowledge or active concealment
by GM. Additionally, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts giving rise to duty
to disclose. Accordingly, on this basis, the Court sustains the demurrer to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action on these grounds.            
 
The demurrer also argues that
Plaintiff failed to comply with Civil Code section 1782. 
 
If a
plaintiff sues for damages under the CLRA, he must send a written notice of the
claim to the defendant thirty days before filing suit “by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to the place where the transaction
occurred or to the person's principal place of business within California.”
(Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (a).) However, a claim for injunctive relief brought
under Section 1770 “may be commenced without compliance with subdivision (a).”
(Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (d).) That is, the notice requirement applies only
to claims for damages. (Civ. Code, § 1782, subd. (d), [“An action for
injunctive relief brough under the specific provisions of Section 1770 may be
commenced without compliance with subdivision (a).”].) Furthermore, “[n]ot less
than 30 days after the commencement of an action for injunctive relief,” a
plaintiff may amend their complaint to include a request for damages “after
compliance with subdivision (a).” (Id.)


Here, the
FAC alleges that “Plaintiff
complied with the notice provisions of Civ. Code § 1782 by notifying Defendants
on July 2, 2024.” However, the Complaint was also filed that same day. As
Plaintiff seeks damages (FAC ¶ 125-126, 133), the claim is defective. (Keilholtz v.
Superior Fireplace Co. (N.D. Cal., Mar. 30, 2009, No. C 08-00836 CW) 2009 WL
839076, at *2 [“The CLRA's notice requirement is not jurisdictional, but
compliance with the requirement is necessary to state a claim.”].)
 
Thus, the
demurrer may be sustained on this ground, as well. Based on the insufficiency of the
allegations to state a CLRA claim, the demurrer is sustained. 
            
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Punitive
Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendant
GM moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the FAC. Defendant
argues, based on
its demurrer arguments, Plaintiff lacks any viable fraud-based claims to
support the punitive damage request. Further, even with the CLRA claim, GM
argues the allegations in the FAC do not satisfy the statutory standards
required to seek punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, given the
Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action,
there is no underlying claim to support a request for punitive damages. The
motion to strike the punitive damage allegations is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the third and fourth
causes of action is sustained. The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff shall
have leave to amend. An amended pleading shall be filed and served on or before
February 7, 2025.