  Case Number:  23VECV03276    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
JW
  Seals, Jr.,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
Reel
  Security California, Inc.
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03276          107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1) Demurrer to FAC
(2) Motion to Strike
 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff JW Seals, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) was employed as a security guard from
January 15, 2022 by defendant Reel Security California, Inc. (“Defendant” and,
together with Plaintiff, “Parties”). (FAC pp. 1–3.) This lawsuit arises out of
that employment.
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint
(the “Complaint”). On November 7, 2023, Defendant demurred to the Complaint,
which demurrer was sustained with leave to amend on January 2, 2024.
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (the “FAC”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) violations of labor
laws, (3) false representation, (4) negligence, (5) failure to respond to
emergencies, (6) whistleblowing and retaliation protections, and (7)
documenting and reporting violations.
On March 26, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a
motion to strike (the “Motion to Strike”). On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff opposed
both the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike, and on April 22, 2024, Defendant
replied to Plaintiff’s oppositions.
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

The Meet and Confer
     Requirement 

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41(a)
and §¿435.5(a) require parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the
filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to attempt to
informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the motion to
strike.
 
Defendant’s counsel submits with the
Demurrer and the Motion to Strike declarations stating that after exchanging
correspondences regarding the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike, “Plaintiff
made it clear he would not substantively meet and confer.” (Crossin Decl.
¶ 3.) We remind Plaintiff of his obligation to meet and confer with
Defendant in good faith.
 

Timeliness of Filings 

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 412.20, subd. (a)(3).)
¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176).)
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service
indicating that the FAC was served on Defendant on February 26, 2024. The
Demurrer and Motion to Strike are set to be heard on April 29, 2024. Based on
these dates, we are satisfied that all filings in the instant matter were
timely filed.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Demurrer

 
Defendant demurs to each cause of action on the grounds that it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e); on the grounds that it is
uncertain under California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f); and, as to the first cause of action, as on the grounds that it cannot be
ascertained from the pleading whether the contract upon which the action is
founded is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (g). (Demurrer pp. 3–4.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10, subd. (a)(1).) Under this
standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather
than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.) 
 
1.     
The First Cause of Action
for Breach of Contract
 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action
for breach of contract are (1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “Further, the
complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–59. For a written contract, the plaintiff may
plead it “by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the
contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by
its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, abrogated on other grounds in Freeman v. Quicken
Loans Inc. (2012) 566 U.S. 624.) To plead a contract’s legal effect, the
plaintiff’s pleading must include “the substance of its relevant terms.” (Ibid.)¿
 
Plaintiff pleads in the FAC that Parties entered “an employment
agreement…, which included specific assurances regarding scheduling flexibility….”
(FAC ¶ 1.) He pleads that Parties had an “initially agreed-upon flexible
scheduling arrangements” but that Defendant later “breach[ed] the terms of
their agreement.” (Id. at ¶ 3.) Plaintiff pleads that at the outset of his
employment with Defendant, he “communicated his scheduling constraints due to
concurrent employment commitments, to which the Defendant raised no objections,”
but “[d]espite specific promises made by the Defendant regarding flexible
scheduling to accommodate [Plaintiff’s] other employment, the Defendant failed
to honor these commitments, potentially constituting a breach of the parties'
employment agreement.” (Id. at ¶¶ 12–13.) Plaintiff alleges that “[d]espite
initial assurances of a flexible work schedule, [Plaintiff] consistently faced
scheduling issues, contradicting the agreed-upon terms.” (Id. at ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff pleads that “[u]pon the commencement of the professional relationship
with the Defendant, clear and unequivocal promises were made, constituting the
foundation of our mutual employment contract. These commitments explicitly
endorsed a scheduling arrangement tailored to accommodate my disclosed
concurrent employment obligations, thereby establishing the contractual
framework.” (Id. at ¶ 32.) Plaintiff further pleads that “Defendant
consistently deviated from the agreed-upon scheduling flexibility, constituting
a material breach of our contractual provision”; that “Defendant's failure to
uphold the promised scheduling flexibility constitutes a violation not only of
the explicit contract terms but also of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing inherent in [Parties’] contractual relationship”; and that “Defendant's
actions, marked by a continued disregard for the agreed contract terms, have
resulted in the erosion of [Plaintiff’s] contractual rights and inflicted
substantial harm, constituting a direct and unequivocal breach of our contract.”
(Id. at ¶¶ 33–35.) 
 
It is unclear from these pleadings in the FAC whether the employment
agreement that Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached is written, oral, or
implied by conduct.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s first cause
of action for breach of contract.
 
2.     
The Second Cause of Action
for Violations of Labor Laws
 
Plaintiff alleges violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”)
“and relevant state labor laws,” which Plaintiff specifically identifies to be
California Labor Code section 512, subdivision (a) and California Labor Code
section 510, subdivision (a). (FAC ¶¶ 38, 40, 42.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “Defendant's ongoing negligence in maintaining a safe and
adequately supervised work environment contravenes Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) standards outlined in the Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970.” (Id. at ¶ 43.) 
 
Defendant contends that the FAC’s failure to identify which specific
standards of the FSLA and OSHA are alleged to have been violated makes the FAC
fatally uncertain. (Motion p. 8.) Defendant further contends that the FAC lacks
sufficient detail about allegedly withheld wages and allegedly unprovided meal
periods for its allegations of violations of California Labor Code sections
510, subdivision (a) and 512, subdivision (a), respectively, to be certain. We
agree that without specifying which provisions of the FSLA and OSHA Plaintiff
is alleging Defendant violated and without additional factual background
regarding alleged violations of California Labor Code sections 510, subdivision
(a) and 512, subdivision (a), this cause of action is uncertain.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s second
cause of action for violations of labor laws.
 
3.     
The Third Cause of Action
for False Representations
 
In ruling on a demurrer, a court should “ignore erroneous or
confusing labels if the complaint pleads facts which would entitle the
plaintiff to relief.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379,
387.) Although Plaintiff labels the FAC’s third cause of
action as “false representations,” we understand from context and his argument that
he means to bring a cause of action for fraud, of which false representation
may be the first element.
 
“The elements of
fraud are (1) the defendant made a false representation as to a past or existing material fact; (2) the
defendant knew the representation was false at the time it was made; (3)
in making the representation, the defendant intended to deceive the plaintiff;
(4) the plaintiff justifiably and reasonably relied on the representation; and
(5) the plaintiff suffered resulting damages.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank
National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 189, 199–200, citing Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud must
be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184,
quoting Lazar v. Superior Court, supra.) “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Ibid.) “A
plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud claim against
a corporate employer is even greater. In such a case, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly
fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Lazar v. Superior
Court, supra, at 645.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is liable for false representation because
it “engaged in a willful pattern of misrepresentation, either knowingly or
negligently, by disseminating inaccurate information regarding travel distances
for assignments.” (FAC p. 9.) The FAC includes no other specifics about the fraud
or false representations that it alleges Defendant made. These allegations thus
lack sufficient specificity to meet the heightened pleading requirements for
fraud.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s third cause
of action for fraud.
 
4.     
The Fourth Cause of Action
for Negligence
 
“The following elements must be pleaded to state
a cause of action for negligence: (1) a legal duty of
care toward the plaintiff; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) legal causation; and
(4) damages.” (Century Surety Co. v. Crosby Insurance, Inc. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 116, 127.) “Whatever its measure in a given case, it is fundamental
that “damages which are speculative, remote, imaginary, contingent,
or merely possible cannot serve as a legal basis for recovery.” (Piscitelli
v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 953, 989.)  “Damages may not be based upon sheer
speculation or surmise, and the mere possibility or even probability that
damage will result from wrongful conduct does not render it actionable.” (Ferguson
v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1037, 1048.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is liable for negligence because “Defendant's
failure to establish an effective coordination system with other security teams
demonstrates a profound disregard for established safety protocols and
constitutes a severe level of negligence. This negligence resulted in an
inherently unsecured and perilous working environment, escalating threats to my
safety and overall well-being.” (FAC p. 11.) Plaintiff additionally alleges
that Defendant’s actions “directly exposed [him] to potential danger and risks.”
(Ibid.) Plaintiff does not allege any harm that has resulted from
Plaintiff’s actions that is certain and present but, rather, alleges only harms
that were possible. However, possible harms are not actionable as damages and
Plaintiff therefore does not plead any damages for purposes of stating a cause
of action for negligence.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s fourth
cause of action for negligence.
 
5.     
The Fifth Cause of Action
for Failure to Respond to Emergencies
 
As we
explain in our discussion above of the third cause of action, the erroneous label
of a cause of action should be ignored if the intent and remedy sought is
clear. (McBride v. Boughton, supra,123 Cal.App.4th at 387.) Although Plaintiff labels the FAC’s fifth cause of action as “failure to
respond to emergencies,” which not a cognizable cause of action, we understand
from context and his argument that he means to bring a cause of action for
negligence. 
 
As stated above, the elements for a cause of action for negligence are “(1)
a legal duty of care toward the plaintiff; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) legal
causation; and (4) damages.” (Century Surety Co. v. Crosby Insurance, Inc.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 116, 127.) “[D]amages for negligently inflicted
emotional distress may be recovered in the absence of physical injury or
impact, and [] a cause of action to recover damages for
negligently inflicted emotional distress will lie… in cases
where a duty arising from a preexisting relationship
is negligently breached.” (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1064, 1074.) However, where the nature of parties’ relationship does
not involve protection from emotional or physical harm, the defendant’s negligence in
discharging its duties cannot give rise to liability for emotional distress
damages. (Gonzales v. Personal Storage, Inc. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 464, 478.)
Further, when the underlying wrongdoing is “merely negligent, rather than
intentional,” a plaintiff who “incurring neither physical impact nor
physical damage, and whose loss (other than emotional distress)
is solely economic, is entitled neither to punitive damages nor to
a recovery for emotional distress.” (Branch v. Homefed
Bank (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 793, 799–800.)
 
The FAC alleges that Defendant failed “to provide appropriate, timely,
and necessary support in response to urgent emergency calls” and describes an
example “during a strenuous 15-hour shift wherein [Plaintiff] found [him]self
abandoned without relief or any form of supportive assistance,” which is later
described as “a situation fraught with risk and potential harm.” (FAC pp.
12–13.) Consequently, the FAC seeks “redress… for emotional distress, potential
harm, and other consequential damages.” (Id. at p. 14.) The FAC
emphasizes “the substantial burden that this negligence has placed on me, both
physically and emotionally. The disregard for my safety and well-being by the
Defendant has caused considerable stress and anxiety, contributing to an
overall diminishment in my quality of life.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff thereby alleges emotional distress damages. These damages are
based on his claim for negligence, and so he must additionally show physical
damages in order to qualify for emotional distress damages. However, Plaintiff
does not allege any other damages that are present, realized, and certain, but
rather only alleges other harms that were “possible.” As noted above in our
discussion of the fourth cause of action for damages, “the mere possibility or
even probability that damage will result from wrongful conduct does not render
it actionable.” (Ferguson v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, supra,
30 Cal.4th at 1048.) Therefore, Plaintiff fails to allege any damages that will
support his claim for emotional distress damages, and Plaintiff therefore fails
to allege any damages.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s fifth cause
of action for failure to respond to emergencies.
 
6.     
The Sixth Cause of Action
for Whistleblowing and Retaliation Protections
 
California Labor Code section 1102.5 is “California's general whistleblower statute.” (McVeigh v. Recology San
Francisco (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 443, 468. “A claim for violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5 requires (1) the plaintiff establish a prima facie
case of retaliation, (2) the defendant provide a legitimate, nonretaliatory
explanation for its acts, and (3) the plaintiff show this explanation is merely
a pretext for the retaliation. To establish the first element, the plaintiff
must show (1) the plaintiff engaged in protected activity, (2) the defendant
subjected the plaintiff to an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a
causal link between the two.” (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 580, 591–92, internal citations omitted.) “[California Labor Code
section 1102.5] provides whistleblower protections to employees who disclose
wrongdoing to authorities.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 709.) “[California Labor Code section] 1102.5,
subdivision (b), concerns employees who report to public agencies. It does not
protect [a] plaintiff[] who reported his suspicions directly to his employer.”
(Green v. Ralee Engineering Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 66, 77.)
 
The FAC alleges that “[f]ollowing the reporting of issues to the
Defendant, [Plaintiff] experienced implicit retaliation through further
scheduling issues and inappropriate treatment, potentially infringing
whistleblower protection laws.” (FAC p. 4.) The FAC later repeats that
Plaintiff reported “Defendant’s violations,” but it does not allege to whom
Plaintiff made such reports. (Id. at p. 14.) As Defendant is a private
employer, a report of any violations of law made by Plaintiff to only Defendant
was not protected activity within the meaning of California Labor Code section
1102.5. Absent an allegation that Plaintiff made any report “to a government or
law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the employee or another
employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or correct the
violation or noncompliance,” the FAC therefore fails to plead all the elements
of a cause of action for violation of California Labor Code section 1102.5.
(Cal. Labor Code § 1102.5, subd. (b).)
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s sixth cause
of action for whistleblowing and retaliation protections.
 
7.     
The Seventh Cause of Action
for Documenting and Reporting Violations
 
The FAC alleges that “Defendant's blatant disregard for properly
documenting and timely reporting of labor law violations, non-compliance with
wage and hour statutes, and neglect of health and safety norms constitutes a
grave breach of key California employment laws and regulations”; that “Defendant's
disregard for accurately documenting and promptly reporting labor law
violations, wage and hour infractions, and breaches of health and safety
standards amount to a gross violation of numerous pivotal California employment
laws and regulations”; and that “Defendant's actions amount to serious
transgressions of several employment laws and regulations.” (FAC pp. 17–18.) The
FAC references “sections 226 and 6404 of the California Labor Code”; Brinker
Restaurant Corp. v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004’s discussion of “state-mandated
break periods,” which interprets Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order No. 5;
Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, which interprets
California Labor Code section 2698, et seq., or the Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act of 2004; Thurman v. Bayshore Transit Management, Inc.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 1112, which interprets California Labor Code section
512, which is now preempted by International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local
2785 v. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (2021 9th Cir.) 986
F.3d 841, and Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order No. 9.
 
California Labor Code section 226 requires employers to provide itemized
wage statements to employees. (Cal. Labor Code § 226.) California Labor
Code section 6404 states, “[n]o employer shall occupy or maintain any place of
employment that is not safe and healthful.” (Cal. Labor Code § 6404.)
Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant failed to provide him with any
itemized wage statements, nor does he allege that the place of his employment
with Defendant was ever not safe and healthful. Plaintiff therefore fails to
state a cause of action for violation of either California Labor Code section
226 or California Labor Code section 6404.
 
Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order No. 5 applies to only “persons
employed in the public housekeeping industry” and is therefore not relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims. Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order No. 9 applies to
only “persons employed in the transportation industry” and is similarly
therefore not relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff does not bring any
claims under the Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, which is
therefore not relevant to his claims.
 
The FAC alleges “several” or “numerous” violations by Plaintiff of “California
employment laws and regulations,” but beyond those discussed immediately above,
it is unclear which laws and regulations Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant
violated.
 
Accordingly, this count SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the FAC’s seventh
cause of action for documenting and reporting violations.
 

The Motion to Strike

 
Defendant moves to
strike a portion of the Complaint’s prayer for relief which seeks “reimbursement
of the costs incurred in initiating and prosecuting this suit, inclusive of
attorney’s fees and other associated legal costs.” (Motion to Strike p. 2.)
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. at § 437.) “[J]udges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Sup. Ct. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision
(b) provides, “[e]xcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1032, subd. (b).) “Attorney
fees can be awarded as costs to the prevailing party when authorized by
contract.” (R.P. Richards, Inc. v. Chartered Const. Corp. (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 146, 158.) “A party may not recover attorney fees unless expressly
authorized by statute or contract.” (Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
459, 454.) Additionally, a “party who has not retained counsel… therefore
cannot qualify for an award of attorney fees.” (Leiper v. Gallegos
(2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 284, 294.) This is true even of unrepresented litigants
who are themselves attorneys. “[P]ro se litigants should not recover fees,
regardless of their professional status.” (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11
Cal.4th 274, 286.)
 
The FAC does not allege that any contract between Parties
authorizes the award of attorneys’ fees. Additionally, Plaintiff is currently
unrepresented by an attorney and has been so since the initiation of this
lawsuit. Therefore, he cannot qualify for an award of attorney’s fees.
 
Plaintiff may, however, seek to recover his costs, exclusive
of attorneys’ fees, incurred by this lawsuit.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion to Strike as to only
the words “attorney’s fees and” in the FAC’s prayer for relief.
 

Leave to
     Amend

 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). The same is true following the granting of a motion
to strike. “Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is
reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question. A pleading
may be stricken only upon terms the court deems proper, that is, terms that are
just. It is generally an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend,
because the drastic step of denial of the opportunity to correct the
curable defect effectively terminates the pleader's action.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141,
1146–47.)
 
Much of the defects in the FAC are a result of too little
detail and specific allegations. We observe that Plaintiff has only amended the
Complaint once and find there is a reasonable possibility that Plaintiff could
amend the FAC to add such needed detail and specific allegations. 
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS leave to amend.
 
   Dated:             April
29, 2024                                                                                  ___________________­­­                                                                                                                                                          Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court