 Case Number:  23VECV05264    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Ira
  Mandel,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Vegas
  Auto Gallery Lotus Cars Las Vegas,
 
        
  Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
   23VECV05264  
       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 29, 2021, plaintiff Ira Mandel (“Plaintiff”) purchased a
certain used vehicle (the “Vehicle”) from defendant Haute, LLC d/b/a Vegas Auto
Gallery Lotus Cars Las Vegas (“Defendant”). (Complaint p. 2). In doing so,
Parties entered a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) and an
arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”). (Opposition pp. 1–2.) Plaintiff
later learned that the Vehicle’s odometer had been “rolled back” so that it
showed significantly lower mileage than it actually possessed. (Complaint, supra,
at p. 3.) Plaintiff notified Defendant of the odometer “roll back” and demanded
that Defendant rescind the purchase agreement, but Defendant refused. (Ibid.)
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1) intentional
misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) violation of Business
and Professions Code § 17200, et seq, and (4) violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
On March 29, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel arbitration
(the “Motion”). On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion, and on April
18, 2024, Defendant replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that
exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.) The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract. (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock
Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) This court is empowered by California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.  
 
The court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a)   
The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
 
(b)  
Grounds
exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
 
(c)   
A
party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a
pending court action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding
initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel
arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the
petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate
disputes as to the professional negligence of a health care provider made
pursuant to Section 1295.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Thus, “Section 1281.2 requires a court to order arbitration if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto
Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841.)
 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained
in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital
v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant seeks an order compelling arbitration of all of Plaintiff’s
claims and staying the action pending the outcome of arbitration. (Motion p.
2.)
 

Existence of
     an Arbitration Agreement

 
When presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the trial court's
first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate
the dispute. (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock
Inv. Co., supra, 68 Cal. App.4th at 88.) Arbitration remains
fundamentally contractual, and “[t]he policy favoring arbitration cannot
displace the necessity for a voluntary agreement to arbitrate.”
(Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59,
emphasis original, internal quotation marks omitted.) “[A]bsent a clear
agreement to submit disputes to arbitration, courts will not infer that the
right to a jury trial has been waived.” (Adajar v. RWR Homes, Inc.
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 563, 569, internal citations and quotations omitted.)
 
“Several contracts relating to the same matters, between the same parties,
and made as parts of substantially one transaction, are to be taken together.”
(Cal. Civ. Code § 1642.) “[California] Civil Code section 1642 is most
frequently applied to writings executed contemporaneously.” (R.W.L.
Enterprises v. Oldcastle, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 1019, 1027.) “Whether
a document is incorporated into the contract depends on the parties’
intent as it existed at the time of contracting. For the terms of
another document to be incorporated into
the document executed by the parties the reference must
be clear and unequivocal. The contract need not recite that it
incorporates another document, so long as it guides the reader to the
incorporated document. To be construed together, the separate instruments
must be so interrelated as to be considered one contract.” (Id. at
1027–28, emphasis omitted, internal citations omitted.) 
 
“The parol
evidence doctrine prohibits the introduction of extrinsic evidence to vary or
contradict the terms of an integrated written instrument.” (Wagner
v. Glendale Adventist Medical Center (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1379, 1385.) “Terms
set forth in a writing intended by the parties as a final expression of their
agreement with respect to the terms included therein may not be
contradicted by evidence of a prior agreement or of a contemporaneous oral
agreement.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. § 1856, subd. (a).) “In contract law, ‘integration’
means the extent to which a writing constitutes the parties' final expression
of their agreement.” (Esbensen v. Userware Internat, Inc. (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 631, 636.) “An integration may be partial, as well as
complete; that is, the parties may intend that a writing finally and completely
express certain terms of their agreement rather than
the agreement in its entirety.” (Ibid.) “The crucial issue in
determining whether there has been an integration is whether the
parties intended their writing to serve as the exclusive embodiment of their
agreement.” (Grey v. American Management Services (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th
803, 807.) “The existence of an integration clause is a key factor in
divining that intent,” although it is “not conclusive.” (Ibid.; Kanno
v. Marwit Capital Partners II, L.P. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 987, 1001.) “In
determining [whether an agreement is integrated], the court must consider not
only whether the written instrument contains an integration clause,
but also examine the collateral agreement itself to determine whether
it was intended to be a part of the bargain.” (Wagner v. Glendale Adventist
Medical Center, supra at 1386.) “However, in determining the issue
of integration, the collateral agreement will be examined only
insofar as it does not directly contradict an express term of the
written agreement; ‘it cannot reasonably be presumed that the parties
intended to integrate two directly contradictory terms in the
same agreement.’” (Ibid., quoting Gerlund v. Electronic
Dispensers International (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 263, 271.)
 
Plaintiff admits that “[a]t the time [he] signed the Purchase Agreement,
[he] also signed an Arbitration Agreement.” (Opposition p. 2.) He contends,
however, that disputes arising out of the Purchase Agreement are not subject to
the terms of the Arbitration Agreement because the Purchase Agreement contains
an integration clause and because it does not expressly incorporate the
Arbitration Agreement. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s opposition raises no other
arguments against the enforcement of the Arbitration Agreement’s terms in this
lawsuit. It is therefore undisputed that the Arbitration Agreement exists and
that if the instant lawsuit is subject to it, it would mandate that this
dispute be resolved by arbitration.
 
The integration clause of the Purchase Agreement reads,
 
[Plaintiff] agrees that this [Purchase] Agreement includes all of the terms
and conditions on all pages of this [Purchase] Agreement hereof, that this
[Purchase] Agreement cancels and supersedes any prior agreement including oral
agreements, and as of the date below comprises; together with any retain
installment sale contract the complete and exclusive statement of the terms of
the agreement relating to the subject matter covered by this [Purchase]
Agreement.
 
(Starr Decl. Exh. 1.)
 
The Purchase Agreement also includes terms which read, “[y]ou agree to sign
such agreements or documents as we may require to effect the terms and
conditions of payments shown in this [Purchase] Agreement”; and “[i]n the event
that any of the terms and conditions of this [Purchase] Agreement are inconsistent
with the terms and conditions of any other document signed as part of this transaction
between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant], with the exception of the retail installment
sales agreement, the terms of this [Purchase] Agreement shall apply.” (Ibid.)
 
The Purchase Agreement does not mention arbitration. Parties agree that the
Purchase Agreement and the Arbitration Agreement were executed simultaneously.
(Opposition p. 2; Reply p. 3.)
 
We find that the Purchase Agreement incorporates the Arbitration Agreement,
and that the Arbitration Agreement is therefore enforceable in any dispute
arising under the Purchase Agreement. First, we note that the parol evidence
rule does not refer to contemporaneously executed written agreements but
rather, refers to only prior
agreements and contemporaneous oral agreements. The Purchase Agreement, by
referring to additional “agreements or documents” “signed as part of this
transaction,” is clear and unequivocal that additional agreements are to be
considered part of the same instrument. The Purchase Agreement does not have to
specifically name the Arbitration Agreement to “guide[] the reader to the
incorporated document.” Thus, the Purchase Agreement and the Arbitration
Agreement may be considered as a single instrument executed in two parts, and
the integration clause of the Arbitration Agreement therefore covers both
agreements, integrating both into a single set of transaction documents.
 
Even if, however, we
do not consider the Purchase Agreement to incorporate the Arbitration
Agreement, we still find that the Arbitration Agreement is enforceable in any
dispute arising under the Purchase Agreement. While it does contain an
integration clause, this is not determinative of the agreement being fully
integrated. The integration clause only specifically “cancels and supersedes”
prior agreements, not contemporaneous agreements, and the agreement later
references contemporaneously executed agreements that are “required to effect
the terms of” the Purchase Agreement. Finally, the Arbitration Agreement
supplements but does not contradict the terms of the Purchase Agreement; the
Arbitration Agreement adds terms that are not inconsistent with the Purchase
Agreement terms. In such case, we therefore find that the Purchase Agreement is
only partially integrated and that the Arbitration Agreement may supplement its
terms.
 
Accordingly, we
find that the Arbitration Agreement exists and that disputes arising under the
Purchase Agreement are subject to it. We are therefore required to GRANT the
Motion for arbitration pursuant to the terms of the Arbitration Agreement.
 

Stay of
     Proceedings

 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 provides in pertinent part,
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.
 
“[W]hen there is a severance of arbitrable from inarbitrable claims, the
trial court has the discretion to stay proceedings on the inarbitrable claims
pending resolution of the arbitration.” (Cruz v. PacifiCare Health Systems,
Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 303, 320.) “A stay is appropriate where
in the absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in the trial
court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,
693.)  When a court grants a petition to compel arbitration,
the court must also order a stay of pending litigation, while the related
arbitration is proceeding and until the arbitration is
resolved. (C.C.P. § 1281.4; Gaines v Fidelity Nat'l Title Ins.
Co. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1091-1092; Thomas v Westlake (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 605, 620.   A stay is not automatic. (Dial
800 v Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 45.) Accordingly, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration. Defendants are hereby ORDERED to file and serve on Plaintiff a notice of
the stay forthwith. (C.C.P. § 1281.4; Cal Rules of Ct 3.650(a), (b)(2).)
 
 
Dated:             April
26, 2024                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court