  Case Number:  22STCV40161    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Oscar Armando Figueroa’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production from Defendant FCA US LLC is GRANTED. Objection free code compliant
responses are ordered within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff
Oscar Armando Figueroa’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant FCA US, LLC’s
Person Most Qualified is GRANTED.
 
 
I.      
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER
“A propounding party may demand a responding
party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody or control.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct discovery by
propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under oath. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must respond to the
production demand either by complying, by representing that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by
answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the
responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and
interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) “The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)
 
Plaintiff
Oscar Armando Figueroa (Plaintiff) moves to compel further responses to
requests for production No. 1–7, 16–21, and 48, from Defendant FCA US, LLC.
Requests No. 1–7 sought documents related to the subject vehicle’s history and
Defendant’s warranty policy, to which Defendant offered statements of
compliance. Defendant also offered a statement of compliance to Request No. 48,
which sought documents relating to its alternative dispute resolution
procedure. However, Plaintiff contends that no documents have been produced.
(Sue Decl. ¶ 19.) Requests No. 16–21, meanwhile, sought documents concerning
coolant system defects in vehicles of the same year, make, and model, including
internal analyses, information concerning warranty claims, and failure rates.
(Separate Statement.) Defendant responded only with objections. 
 
Plaintiff
in the motion contends that Defendant failed to respond to their
meet-and-confer efforts. (Sue Decl. ¶¶ 15–20.) Defendant in opposition
contends this was the product of inadvertence, and offers that the documents
promised have been produced as of January 25, 2024. (Dao Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant
argues that it remains willing to meet and confer on Requests No. 16–21, and
“would agree to supplement each of its responses . . . to state its full
compliance including the agreement to conduct the requested document searches
and produce all responsive documents identified as a result of those searches.”
(Opposition at p. 2.)
 
Good
cause supports the documents sought, as they concern Defendant’s knowledge of
the defects contained in the subject vehicle, and thus the willfulness of its
alleged warranty violations. To succeed on a claim brought under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving
several elements, including nonconformity of a vehicle that substantially
impaired its use, value, or safety, presentation of a vehicle to a manufacturer
or authorized representative for repair, and failure to repair the defect after
a reasonable number of attempts. (Oregel
v. Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (“Oregel”) (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) 
 
A buyer may be entitled to a civil penalty of up to two
times the actual damages upon a showing that the manufacturer willfully failed
to abide by any of its obligations under the Act. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd.
(c).) Evidence that a defendant “adopted internal policies that erected hidden
obstacles to the ability of an unwary consumer to obtain redress under the
Act,” is relevant to a determination of “willfulness” in relation to prayers
for the civil penalty. (Oregel, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1105.)
 
There
is case authority for this proposition. The court in Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 993–994,
held that Bentley’s failure to turn over customer complaints regarding defects
on other Bentleys to support the plaintiff’s claim under the Song-Beverly Act
was an abuse of discovery so flagrant that the trial court abused its
discretion by not imposing
terminating sanctions. Other cases have embraced a evidentiary rule similar to
that only implicit in Doppes. In Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 138, the trial court allowed an expert to testify that a particular
transmission was defective  because he
had heard from “others” that the same transmission in “other vehicle[s]” was
“problematic.” The Court of Appeal held that the “other vehicle” testimony was
properly “limited to the transmission model Ford installed in plaintiff’s truck
and other vehicles.”  (Id. at p. 154.)  The court held that “[s]uch evidence
certainly was probative and not unduly prejudicial.”  (Ibid.)
And in another case, Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
334, 347, the court held that a manufacturer’s internal emails concerning a
mechanical defect in a lemon law case were relevant to show that the
manufacturer “intentionally chose not to honor the express warranty,” and thus
merited civil penalties.
 
Defendant
does not support its objections in opposition, and offers to confer only on the
eve of hearing, an offer it greeted with silence when Plaintiff timely made it
before filing the present motion. Defendant has shown no basis to defer ruling
on the motion.
 
The
motion is therefore GRANTED.
 
II.    MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
A party may make a
motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice”
if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer
declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
person most knowledgeable. Plaintiff served the notice of deposition on July
25, 2023, setting the deposition for September 15, 2023. (Sue decl. ¶ 9, Exh.
2.) Defendant served objections on September 8, 2023. (SueDecl. Exh. 3.)
Defendant indicated that it was unavailable on the date and time indicated, and
that no deponent would be produced. (Ibid.) Plaintiff served
meet-and-confer correspondence regarding dates on October 20 and 30, 2023, but
to no response. (Sue Decl. ¶¶ 11–12, Exhs. 4, 5.)
 
Plaintiff has shown entitlement to an order compelling
Defendant’s deposition, as a notice was served, Defendant objected to the
scheduling, and Plaintiff received no response to subsequent efforts to
accommodate Defendant’s objections. Defendant has filed no opposition to this
motion to justify its objections.
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 