 Case Number:  22STCV14367    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING        KAREN JEAN ZIEGENBEIN                   vs.   JANET LYNNE    SAFFARI      Case    No.:  22STCV14367          Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024        Attorney Jae  Kim’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.              Legal Standard   Motions to withdraw are routinely  granted if made in the proper form and presented with proper notice. The court  may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation, after  notice to the client.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).)    Discussion    Attorney Jae  Kim brings a renewed motion for relief as counsel as to Defendant Janet Lynne  Saffari.  The Court previously denied Mr.  Kim’s motion, given that it was brought on the eve of trial and thus would have  prejudiced Defendant and caused excessive delay.     Now, Mr. Kim  has completed the eight day trial. Furthermore, he states that:   There are  still irreconcilable differences that cannot be resolved or waived even after  the trial has been completed. Ms. Saffari has not paid the outstanding invoice  and she has recently filed State Bar complaint against Mr. Kim: Because of  these conflicts, it is not possible for Jae Kim to represent Ms. Saffari in  this underlying case's post-trial motions or matters,   The Court  finds good cause to relieve Mr. Kim.  The  following documents are properly submitted: Civil Form MC-051 “Notice of Motion  and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” Civil Form MC-052 “Declaration in  Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” and Civil Form MC-053  “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.”                  The  motion is GRANTED.   It is  so ordered.     Dated:  February     , 2024                                                                                                                                                     Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court           Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.     

 

 

Superior Court of
California

County of Los
Angeles

DEPARTMENT 17

 

 




KAREN JEAN
  ZIEGENBEIN,
Plaintiff,
vs.
JANET LYNNE SAFFARI,
Defendant.
 


Case No.: 22STCV14367

statement of decision




 

 

 

I.                  
 Summary

This is a regretful case of financial elder abuse under-filed as
only a partition action involving an 82-year-old mother and her daughter.  Plaintiff Karen Ziegenbein (Mom), who always
intended to leave her estate equally to her two daughters, deeded half of her
house to her daughter Defendant Janet Saffari (Daughter).  Defendant, who is a real estate agent, had
the deed prepared as joint tenants which meant had Mom passed away
Defendant would have received the entire house excluding her sister from
inheriting half of the estate’s most valuable asset.

 

Upon becoming half owner of the house on Hatteras Street, Daughter
moved her husband Richard Saffari in and over the next few years proceeded to
clutter up the house through hoarding to the point Mom could no longer stand
living there.  There are not words to
describe the shocking condition of Mom’s house other than to examine Exhibits
4, 5, and 6.  Mom bought a condominium in
Glendale but for the most part continued to pay the mortgage, property tax, and
insurance for Hatteras.

 

Mom asked Daughter to help out more with the house expenses but
was not successful. When Mom accepted she had to pay two mortgages, she came to
the conclusion she was going through her retirement savings too quickly.  Mom asked Daughter face-to-face, in text
messages, and in emails if she could move back into Hatteras and was either ignored
and/or shunned.  

 

At some point, Mom’s condo suffered plumbing damage, so Defendant
moved Mom into Defendant and her husband Richard’s rental house and collected the
insurance relocation fee.  Instead of
hiring one of the two contractors who submitted repair bids with one-month time
estimates, somehow Daughter and Richard got the job. Seventeen (17) months
later, Mom was still living at the rental house and Defendant demanded Mom pay
her $54,000 in back rent.  She told her
mother the police were on their way to remove her. Amidst all the serious
undertones of financial elder abuse, all Mom wants is a partition action so she
can recover half the value of her house to buy another condo where she can live
out the rest of her days.  

 

Daughter on the other hand filed a cross-complaint against Mom for
the $54,000 of back rent after putting Mom in their rental where she did not
want to live. Daughter also sued Mom for breach of fiduciary duty for Mom’s
failure to file an insurance claim after severe winds and rains in 2021 damaged
the Hatteras roof.  This Court granted a
directed verdict on the insurance claim and a unanimous jury quickly rejected
Daughter’s cross-claim against Mom for back rent.

 

The Court heard the partition action concurrently with the jury
trial, and after the jury verdict allowed additional evidence for the partition
action only.  The Court finds in favor of
the Plaintiff. 

 

 

II.               
Background

The Ziegenbeins purchased the home at 23357 Hatteras Street in
Woodland Hills in March of 1971. 
Following a divorce, Mom became a single parent, was homeless with the
children for a while but ultimately ended up the owner of the house in 1985.  It is a 1950s ranch-style home with 4
bedrooms, 3 baths.  Defendant lived there
from age 8 until going off to college in 1980, and then on and off as an
adult.  In 1995, Defendant married
Cross-Complainant Richard Saffari and by June 1996 they both moved in with
Mom.  They moved out awhile later but
returned in 2000 and have been living at Hatteras ever since.

 

On December 8, 2003, Defendant – a real estate agent – manipulated
Mom into deeding over half of the Hatteras house to her under the guise she
would save on taxes. No consideration was paid. 
Mom always maintained it was her desire to leave the family house
equally to her daughters, Defendant and Stacy.[1]  Despite that intent, Defendant had the deed
prepared listing her and Mom as joint tenants.  Mom testified she did not know what “joint
tenancy” was but trusted her daughter because she was a real estate agent.
Unbeknownst to Mom at the time, had she passed during that joint tenancy, the
entire house would have gone to Defendant in effect disinheriting Stacy. When
Mom was explained the deed, she immediately moved her remaining half interest
into a trust.

 

As far as living with Defendant and Richard, Mom testified they
took over the house.  The place became a
mess and was no longer hers.  They moved
her furniture out and she could no longer invite friends over for bridge nor
host family gatherings.  They brought
over a half-dozen inoperable cars they permanently parked in the backyard. A
fishing boat and cargo container joined the cars. The aerial photo in Exh. 4
shows the shocking difference between Defendant’s property and the rest of the
very upscale Woodland Hills neighborhood. 
The clutter inside the home resembles an audition for a reality show on
hoarding.  (See, Exhibits 4, 5,
and 6.) Mom asked them to clean up, but they refused and would not speak to her
for months even though they were all still living in the same house.

 

In 2008, Mom said she stopped driving.  In 2014, Mom had a seizure which she
attributed to stress. In December, 2016, she could no longer cope with the
“disgusting” living conditions and found a condo on Alpha Street in
Glendale.  Defendant was her real estate
agent and took a commission.  She said
she bought Alpha to get away from the “clutter and mess.”  Mom testified she was afraid of them, the
mess was “horrible,” and she was really “kicked out” of her own house.

 

Although she liked living at Alpha, it was only a year later in
2018 that Mom got concerned she was burning through her savings too
quickly.  She was paying both mortgages
for Hatteras and Alpha.  Mom was
unsuccessful in getting her daughter to pay more of the expenses.[2]  Mom continually asked her daughter to help
her sell Alpha and allow her to move back into her house but Defendant said no
or refused to respond.  When asked
multiple times in court whether Mom asked if she could move back into the
house, Daughter denied it and acted surprised after being shown Mom’s many
texts and e-mail requests (see, Exh. 10, 12, 13, 15, & 16).

 

At some point in 2021, Mom’s condo on Alpha got flooded and she
had to move out for repairs.  Insurance
covered the damages and relocation.  Mom
received two bids and each estimated the work would take one month.  Safeco Insurance approved 4-6 weeks for the
job.  Mom asked her daughter if she could
move back into the house and Defendant said “no.”  Defendant wanted her mother to move into her
and her husband’s rental house on Stagg Street in Canoga Park.  They drafted up a lease agreement at $400 per
week because the insurance company had agreed to pay that amount up to
$6,000.  Mom signed the lease on July 23,
2020, for immediate move-in, however Mom testified there were still tenants
occupying the house through December. 
Defendant took photos of $400 cash with a receipt presumably as proof
for the insurance company pay-out.[3]  Mom, in reality, went to live with Stacy.
After the former tenants moved out of Stagg, they all learned the carpet had
been soiled with dog urine so it was pulled up and Mom scrubbed the floors and
helped paint.  Mom also bought new carpet
for the entire Stagg house (see, Exh. 53) and a washer/dryer.

 

Mom did not hire either of the two contractors to fix her condo on
Alpha.  Even though she obtained bids and
the insurance company was paying for the repair, somehow Defendant and Richard[4]
got the job.  The one-month job took them
more than six months to finish; all the while Mom kept asking to move back into
her house on Hatteras.  They moved Mom’s
belongings to Stagg and she ended up staying there for 17 months.[5]  After the $6,000 relocation fee was paid by
the insurance company, Mom did not pay them any additional rent.  

 

Mom testified that one day Defendant came into Stagg screaming, “You
owe me $41,000 for rent.”  While the
lease terms listed the price of $400/week, husband Richard testified it was
only for one room (see, Exh. 113:2-6). 
Mom apparently put her belongings in more than one room so he testified
she should have to pay rent for the entire house at $3,200 per month multiplied
by the 17 months she was there.  Even
more surprising was the absence of testimony asking Mom to move her property so
other rooms could be rented, and the lease does not mention $3,200 as a
whole-house price. 

 

Mom started to pack but when it was not fast enough, Defendant
sent a text on 1/18/22 demanding $54,000 immediately and notified Mom, “I
called the police and they are on the way over to remove you from the property”
(Exh. 17).  Mom left that day in a panic
abandoning whatever personal property she could not move.  Mom testified they have not spoken
since.  

 

Mom moved back in with Stacy but really wanted a place where she
could live by herself.  Mom met with a new
real estate agent but found she could not afford to buy a place.  After describing her situation, the agent
explained partition actions and this case was filed on 4/29/22.

 

On 8/2/22, Defendant and Richard filed a cross-complaint.  The two causes of action that went to trial were
for breach of contract (lease) and breach of fiduciary duty.  The Court granted Cross-Defendant (Mom’s) motion
for directed verdict for the breach of fiduciary duty where Daughter sued Mom
for not filing an insurance claim after high winds and rains damaged the Hatteras
roof in 2021.  After Mom produced
undisputable evidence that she did in fact file a claim with Safeco (Exhibits
56, 57, & 58),[6]
Defendant admitted to receiving several phone calls from insurance adjusters
who she declined to call back for unintelligible reasons.

 

For the Defendant’s cross complaint against Plaintiff for the breach
of contract for the alleged unpaid back rent, the jury found Mom did not owe anything
to Defendant or Richard. 

 

 

III.            
Partition Action

The Court finds there is no way the owners of Hatteras can
coexist.  This has already been attempted
and ended up in a complete abuse of Mom’s ownership rights.  After review of the property and the testimony,
this Court concludes there is no way the physical property can be divided that
would offer a non-hoarder peace and solitude. 

 

After concluding the property cannot be physically divided, the
Court finds partition by sales to be the most equitable if not only resolution.


 

CCP section 872.720 requires the Court to make an interlocutory
judgment if it finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition. More
specifically, if the Court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to partition,
it must “make an interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the
parties in the property and order[] the partition of the property and, unless
it is to be later determined, the manner of partition.” CCP § 872.720(a).

 

If “[t]he court determines that, under the circumstances, sale and
division of the proceeds would be more equitable than division of the
property,” then “the court shall order that the property be sold and the
proceeds be divided among the parties in accordance with their interests in the
property as determined in the interlocutory judgment.” CCP § 872.830(b).

 

This partition by sale was the Court’s ruling in the Proposed Statement
of Decision filed December 18, 2023.  Defendant,
in her closing argument, referred to the Uniform Partition of Heirs Property
Act and cited CCP §874.316 which allows “any cotenant except a cotenant that
requested partition by sale may buy all the interests of the cotenants that requested
partition by sale” (see, Defendant’s Rebuttal Closing Argument, p. 2:8-12).
“In other words, this creates a right of first refusal for
non-partitioning parties.” Id.

 

The Court, believing this was merely a right of first refusal,
indicated it “is in favor of this option and will consider it at the
appropriate time.”  After learning more
about the Uniform Partition of Heirs Property Act (UPHPA) – primarily from
Plaintiff’s Objection to the Proposed Statement of Decision – the Court understands
the UPHPA triggers a whole litany of legal safeguards and protections inappropriately
brought up in just a few lines in a closing argument.

 

The UPHPA (Act) defines “heirs property” as real property owned by two or more tenants
in common, where 20% or more of the interests are held by co-owners who are
relatives or inherited their property from relatives. The analysis of whether the Act applies is helped by Plaintiff’s
concession that “[t]he broad definition of “heirs property” set forth in
Section 874.312(e), could possibly be applied to the subject property in this
case.” (Plaintiff’s Objection, 4:21-22.) 

 

The Court finds the Act applies.

 

Pursuant to CCP §874.316(a), the Court will determine the fair
market value of the property.  The Court
declines to appoint a partition referee at this point under CCP §873.010 for
fear of substantially escalating costs making Defendant’s purchase amount
higher. However, by choosing this route, the Court is without funds to appoint
a single “disinterested real estate appraiser” set forth in CCP §874.316(d).  After discussions with counsel on January 25,
2024, neither party objected to the Court offering each side the opportunity to
present its own appraisal from a real estate appraiser licensed in the state to
determine the fair market value of the property.  Defendant did object to the Court’s directions
that the appraisals estimate (as best as possible) the property as if it were
in a cleaned up marketable state in average condition for the neighborhood.  This is the way Mom had it at the time of the
deed.[7]
 Additionally, Defendant is ordered to
cooperate with all appraisers with minimal but reasonable notice.

 

The appraisals, if submitted, are due by March 15, 2024.  Any Oppositions are due by 5 p.m. on April 8,
2024.  The evidentiary hearing for fair
market value per CCP §874.316(c) is set on April 16, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.  

 

Pursuant to the Act, the Court will determine the fair market
value of Hatteras and send notice to the parties of the value. Id.  Following notice to the parties of the value,
each cotenant (Defendant) will have no later than 45 days to indicate whether (she)
elects to buy all the interests of the cotenant that requested partition. CCP
§874.317(b).  Under the circumstances
specific to the facts of this case described thoroughly herein, the purchase
will be as is. The electing party has 60 days from the date of notice of
price to tender. CCP §874.317(e).

 

In the event Defendant is not willing or able to purchase
Plaintiff’s half of Hatteras, the Court immediately appoints the partition
referee Matthew L. Taylor[8]
to oversee the partition sale consistent with the balance of this order.  Whether Defendant purchases Plaintiff’s
interest in the property or whether it is sold through a partition sale, Defendant
owes Plaintiff the following sums as detailed below:

 

 

IV.            
‘Allowances, Accounting,
Contribution, or Other Compensatory Adjustment’ 

The Court now examines “allowances, accounting, contribution, or
other compensatory adjustment among the parties according to the principles of
equity.” CCP §872.140.  The Court starts
its monetary adjustments operating under the premise that the property as of December
8, 2003, is owned jointly by both Mom and Daughter (50/50), and does not
consider whether this transfer was made with or without consideration. 

            

A.   
Payments for Mortgage,
Insurance, and Taxes 

 

1.     
Mom’s Accounting

Mom worked for Anheuser-Busch for 23 years as a bookkeeper and
retired from its accounting department. 
Her record keeping is pristine. 
Mom’s Hatteras expenses were placed into an Excel spreadsheet (Exh. 19)
that she explained in detail of her payments on the first mortgage, second
mortgage, property tax, and insurance for Hatteras from 2004 to the
present.  Each individual year has its
own “Payment Summary” starting with 2004 (Exh. 20).[9]  Each payment was meticulously documented,
cross-referenced with Mom’s handwritten check registry, and included a copy of
the cashed check or corresponding bank statement. Mom’s spreadsheet credits
Defendant with seven (7) payments she made for property taxes.

 

Mom attests to the accuracy of her summaries however she admits
her records of supporting documents are not complete.  When Mom was forced out of her home, all of
her belongings could not fit into the Alpha condo.  Lots of personal items and her box of
pre-2008 financial records were left behind at Hatteras.  Interestingly, Defendant clearly went through
the box and introduced a few of Mom’s records (see, Exh. 101-23, dated
June 2008). Mom testified her spreadsheet would have been complete if Daughter
would have provided her the records, and Daughter in her written closing
argument said they were never requested in discovery. By 2008 (Exh. 24), Mom’s
payments start getting corroborated with cancelled checks and from 2009 (Exh.
25) to the present (Exh. 39), Mom’s bookkeeping included the check registry, a
copy of the check itself front and back,[10]
a mortgage statement showing the payment was received and credited toward the outstanding
balance, and the corresponding bank statement showing the check was cashed and
deducted from Mom’s account. 

 

Plaintiff hired accountant James Schaefer to review Mom’s
accounting and do a forensic audit.  He
has been a CPA since 1977 and has been an expert witness in many financial
cases. He testified he took Mom’s Excel spreadsheet and “broke it out.”  Working from the most recent year backward,
he randomly selected 25% of the transactions for the 14 years for which Mom had
records, an audit of some 183 transactions. 
He found only one error totaling $19 under the property insurance
column.  He testified Mom’s record
keeping is “really, really good,” and evaluated her spreadsheet as 99.5%
accurate.  Additionally, for the older
years for which Mom did not have complete records he testified based upon what she
did have, “There’s a high probability the same outcome would have carried on.”

 

Mom’s accounting in Exh. 19 indicates she paid $218,231.12 on the
first mortgage, $22,667.20 on the second mortgage, $23,981.05 for property tax
(Defendant paid $6,001.41), and Mom paid $33,855.85 for property insurance
(Exh. 19-04).  Mom in total paid
$298,735.22 to Daughter’s $6,001.41.[11]  The mortgages are now paid in full.

 

2.     
Defendant’s Accounting

Defendant did not present an accounting summary, did not call an
expert, appears to have not provided discovery timely, and produced volumes of
bank statements after the trial started that were sometimes marked with an
exhibit number but for the most part not introduced into evidence.

 

Defendant presented a lot of copies of checks for $943.94[12]
showing she made many, many payments toward the first mortgage.  When shown to Mom to challenge her testimony
that she made all the payments listed on her spreadsheet, Mom immediately asked
to see the back side of the checks showing they were actually cashed by a bank.
Defendant and her counsel opened an envelope of what appeared to be actual
returned checks and shuffled through them confidently but never showed them to
Mom nor introduced them.  While the
defense discussed and marked many checks under Exhibit 101, none were moved
into evidence.  Daughter seemed to
produce more evidence during the early years for which Mom did not have records
than for the more recent years. More suspiciously, Daughter produced copies of
her bank accounts showing thousands of dollars of cash withdrawals (Exh. 103)
which she claimed to have given her mother for the mortgage.  Mom denied ever having received any cash from
Defendant to pay the mortgage.

 

There were several instances where Daughter was shown the front of
a check and testified she paid the mortgage for that month, to later be
impeached by Mom having that check logged in her registry, a copy of the cashed
check, with the corresponding bank statement referencing that check by number
as cashed on the correct date for the exact amount, and the mortgage company
receiving only a single payment. (Compare, Exh. 24-6 to Daughter’s
unadmitted Exh. 101-21.)[13]

 

Another suspicious instance of Daughter’s reconstructive
bookkeeping was after she testified she paid the June 2008 mortgage.  Defendant was shown her own exhibit (Exh.
101-23 (unadmitted)) where Mom had written on the monthly loan statement:
“Janet – here’s the June payment. Mom.”  Mom
testified she gave the mortgage coupon and the check to Defendant to take to
Bank of America.

 

Similarly, Defendant presented a Bank of America receipt for an
over-the-counter payment of the mortgage on 12/29/11 (Exh. 101-27) in which she
claims she paid in cash only to be shown Mom’s banking records showing check
number 242 for $943.94 was cashed at that same Bank of America on 12/29/11
(Exh. 28:4,27,34).  Once again on a
different date, Defendant testified she paid cash at Bank of America and got a
receipt for 2/1/12 (Exh. 101-28) to be impeached with Mom’s check registry for
check #245 (see, Exh. 28-27) and cashed check #245 (Exh. 28-39) showing
Mom wrote it the day prior.

 

When the number of cashed checks from Mom became too voluminous
and conflicted with Daughter’s claim to have paid cash for the same monthly
period,[14]
Daughter altered her testimony saying Bank of America would not accept cash
so she actually paid Mom $950 in cash and Mom wrote the $943.94 check for
Daughter to take to Bank of America.  Mom
adamantly denied any such cash transactions occurred.

 

If Mom and Daughter were each taking turns paying the mortgage
every other month like Defendant suggested, there were many of times Daughter
should have corrected Mom’s texts and e-mails but did not. For example:

 

n  On 1/24/18, Mom sent an email asking Defendant, “Where do you
think you can live rent-free?  It costs
$1064 a month for mortgage and insurance. 
I’m sure Stacy would be happy for me to give her $1064 a month” (Exh.
7).  Daughter replied but never said she
was paying half the mortgage.  To the
contrary, all Daughter was able to respond was she was paying her utilities and
maintenance (Exh. 8).

n  On 3/4/19, Mom sent an email asking if she could move back into
Hatteras.  “I am paying two mortgages now
and I don’t like it” (Exh. 13).

n  On 3/10/19, Mom sent an email asking Defendant to sell her
condo.  “You get a commission. I don’t
have two mortgages” (Exh. 14).

n  On 12/7/2020, Mom texted Daughter asking her to bring over the
mortgage bill so she (Mom) could pay it (Exh. 111:19-20).

There were clear opportunities for Daughter to remind her mother
she was paying half the mortgage if it was true, however, through all these
exchanges, Defendant never mentioned it. 
Also, throughout the entire trial, Defendant never claimed to have made
any payments toward the 2nd mortgage.

 

There are many reasons to completely disregard Defendant’s
accounting testimony.  The first is
because she was wholly unbelievable. 
Secondly, her bank statements were not provided in discovery, had
portions redacted hiding more than personal identifying information, and had
portions covered with Post-it notes during photocopying.  Any question about credibility was resolved
with Daughter’s following surprise testimony.

 

3.     
Defendant Claims Mom Sold
Her the Hatteras House

There were many times during the trial when the Court was in utter
disbelief of Defendant’s absurd fabrications. 
After the jury had rendered its verdict and the Court was hearing evidence
for the partition action, Defendant was struggling to meet Mom’s challenge of
producing a single check, front and back, for $943.94.

 

While trying to demonstrate she routinely gave her mother money
for the house, Defendant produced as series of five checks in $1,000, 5,000 and
$7,000 denominations which she claimed she wrote to Mom with “Buy Hatteras” in
the memo line.  When impeached with the
actual returned checks from the bank showing the memo lines as blank, Defendant
admitted to writing “Buy Hatteras” on copies after they were transacted by the
bank.[15]  

 

When asked what “Buy Hatteras” meant, Defendant said she had a written
purchase agreement with her mother to buy the rest of Hatteras and these
payments and others went toward that purchase. 


 

At this point, the Court interrupted the testimony to clarify what
it believed it just heard: In summary, we were in trial on a 50-50 partition
action and Defendant – a real estate agent – just indicated she had a written
purchase agreement that she had been performing on for 15-20 years!  Defendant held firm offering more and more
details amidst Mom’s denials.  Defendant
said she had a copy of the purchase agreement at home.  Needless to say, no written purchase
agreement was produced that day, the next day, or any other day.

 

The Court accepts Mom’s accounting supported by the plaintiff’s
forensic accounting expert.  The Court
finds the following amounts were paid by each: Mom paid $218,231.12 on the
first mortgage, $22,667.20 on the second mortgage, $23,981.05 for property tax
(Defendant paid $6,001.41), and Mom paid $33,855.85 for property insurance
(Exh. 19-04).  Mom in total paid
$298,735.22 to Daughter’s $6,001.41. The total spent on mortgages, insurance,
and taxes was $304,736.63, thus each side is responsible for $152,368.31.  The Court finds Defendant has paid $6,001.41
and accordingly owes Mom $146,366.90.  

 

The Court agrees with Plaintiff that interest of 7% per year
should apply to $146,366.90 as Mom attempted to get Daughter to pay her
share of the mortgage, property taxes and insurance, but Defendant refused.  This amount is to be added to Defendant’s “heirs
property” purchase price (actually half), and if she does not or cannot
purchase Hatteras it will resort to a lien on the property Defendant owes
Plaintiff from her net proceeds of the partition sale.

 

B.   
Value of Defendant’s
Exclusive Use of Hatteras: ‘Ouster Damages’

Plaintiff hired a certified general real estate appraiser, Gregg
Freedman, to estimate the fair market rental value of the property from
12/20/16[16] to
8/22/23.  The appraiser, with more than
40 years’ experience, broke the time frame down into six-month bands of
time.  Using the Multiple Listing Service
(MLS), Parcel Quest, and Black Knight real estate data collection services, he
estimated the fair market rental value for Hatteras during that time period totaled
$381,088. 

 

When a tenant is denied the right to use and enjoy the premises as
contemplated because of unhealthy and unsanitary conditions, the law deems it a
constructive eviction. (Johnson v. Snyder (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 86, 88.)
Moreover, “[t]he refusal to permit entry after a request for entry has been
made by the cotenant out of possession is, by itself, an ouster.” (5 Miller
& Starr, Cal. Real Estate (3d ed. 2000) Holding Title, §12:5, p. 12-13; Greer
v. Tripp (1880) 56 Cal. 209, 212 ["a refusal, after a proper demand by
a tenant in common in possession to admit his co-tenant into the possession, is
itself an ouster, and dispenses with the necessity of further proof on that
point"]; Wood v. Henley (1928) 88 Cal.App. 441, 454 [“ouster
includes the ‘refusal of a tenant in possession on a proper demand, to let his
cotenant into possession’"].)

 

A cotenant who has been ousted from the property may recover the
rental value of the property from the cotenant in possession. (Zaslow v.
Kroenert (1946) 29 Cal.2d 541, 548.)

 

While equity might suggest Defendant could be liable for more than
half of that rental value (see CCP §872.140), the Court will impose only
half of that $381,088, or $190,544, is owed to Mom. This is despite the fact that
Daughter through her constructive eviction and refusal to allow Mom to move
back in, received more than half her ownership right to the house.  Half ownership would imply Mom would get half
use of the house at Hatteras, and Daughter would get half use.  

 

In reality, Defendant, Richard, and their two children took over
Hatteras forcing Mom to live elsewhere. Defendant received more than half use
of Hatteras, she received full use for her entire immediate family.  Nonetheless, the Court assesses the $190,544
for ouster damages and it will be added to Defendant’s “heirs property”
purchase price (half), and if she does not or cannot purchase Hatteras it will
resort to a lien on the property Defendant owes Plaintiff from her net proceeds
of the partition sale.

 

In the event Defendant does not buy Plaintiff’s half of the
property through the UPHPA, Defendant is ordered to pay the following
additional expenses of: (1) a judgment lien against Defendant on the property,
(2) the cost of a new roof, and (3) the cost of any remaining clean-up of the
property.  For these amounts, Plaintiff
will also be given a lien against Defendant’s half of net proceeds from the
partition sale. At this point, partition referee Matthew Taylor is to proceed
with the project.

 

C.   
Title Search of Hatteras
Finds a Judgment Lien Against Defendant

 

While preparing for trial, Plaintiff’s counsel did a title search
of Hatteras and found that Daughter has an abstract of judgment lien on
property for $2,909.46 (Exh. 41).  The
lawsuit was never answered and went by way of default judgment. Defendant
claims she knew nothing about it but knew it was from Small Claims Court.

 

The Court finds Defendant is responsible for satisfaction of the $2,909.46
lien against the house including any accrued interest and this amount is to be
deducted solely from Defendant’s 50% interest in the net sales proceeds.

 

D.   
The Roof on Hatteras

 

According to Richard, the roof on Hatteras leaked for years
stemming from the winds and rains in 2021. 
While Richard testified he tried coating part of the roof, he knew for
years it needed to be replaced but that they were not in a position to cover
the expense.  When it rained, Richard
testified they put buckets and bowls in virtually every room.  As a result of inaction, now there is so much
water damage Richard said the structural integrity of the roof has been
compromised requiring new plywood, the insulation has been allowed to mold, and
the leaking water has been allowed to soak the walls causing mold and floor
damage. 

 

Defendant testified she wanted her mother to refinance the house
to take out money to fix the roof.  One
can understand the reluctance an eighty-year-old might have to refinancing a
house that is owned free and clear.  The
Court can also understand why someone who is not allowed to live in her house
might not fully understand the severity of the problem or might be reluctant to
pay for maintenance.

 

When deciding who should be responsible for the roof, the Court
cannot ignore when Mom was asking for help because she was paying two
mortgages, the property tax, and insurance that Defendant’s response was they
were covering “utilities and maintenance.”  Furthermore, Defendant was quick to point out
improvements they have made to the property like a $10,000 Thermador stove
cooktop with $4,000 range hood and custom cabinets and installation.  Additionally, Defendant in her written
closing argument prepared an accounting spreadsheet which the Court could not
consider but cannot ignore the home improvement receipts totaling $95,545.25. However,
the Court cannot help but wonder why the roof was not repaired through
insurance, and before it became catastrophic. 

 

Combine this with Defendant countersuing Mom for not having reported
the roof leaks to the insurance company when she in fact knew Mom had, and
Defendant herself prevented the inspection and remediation, the Court is
comfortable in allocating the entire expense related to replacing the roof and
all the damage caused by years of letting it leak solely to Defendant.

 

 

 

 

E.    
The Clean-Up 

The job of clean-up of this property, inside and out, is monumental.
The Court orders the house be completely emptied and vacated so mold testing
can be performed, repairs can be made, and the interior properly staged for
appraisal and sales.  Defendants may
remove their expensive appliances like the stovetop and rangehood, however they
are to be replaced with operational appliances similar to what was originally
in place in 2016.  The Court orders any
removal and replacement of appliances be paid for from Defendants’ private
funds prior to the removal and not from anticipated proceeds from the partition
sale.

 

All boats, cars, cargo containers, and appliances in the yard are
to be removed so an environmental impact study for leaked mechanical fluids can
be performed, assessed, remediated, and some landscaping can take place.

 

 

V.               
Conclusion

 

            As a real estate
agent, Defendant knows what similar houses are selling for in her
neighborhood.  Defendant was also given
notice of the off-set amounts she owes Plaintiff on December 18, 2023.  While the Court seriously questions whether
the UPHPA can be invoked post-trial without a noticed motion, the Court urges
Defendant and her family to use the extra time the Act provides to their
advantage.  The Court intends to strictly
follow the dates set forth in the Act and once the time to commit to buying the
property (45 days) or the time to pay (60 days) has passed, the house is to be
vacated within 45 days and any clean-up not completed will be deducted from
Defendant’s net proceeds.  Defendant
would be wise to prepare accordingly.



It is so ordered.

 

 

Dated:  February 1, 2024

 

 

 

                                                                                                            

Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the Superior Court

 



