 Case Number:  23STCV02320    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALEX CONTRERAS 
 
        
  vs.
 
ENTRON HOLDING,
  INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02320  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 2, 2023



 
All In Credit Union (AICU)’s
motion for leave to amend to file a FAXC is GRANTED. 
 
On 2/20/2023,
Plaintiff Alex Contreras (Plaintiff) filed suit against Entron Holding, Inc.,
All in Federal Credit Union, and American Contractors, Indemnity Company,
alleging: (1) violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (2) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200; (3) failure of consideration; (4)
violation of the Song-Beverly Act; (5) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; (6) breach of implied warranty of fitness; and (7) violation
of Business and Professions Code section 7071.5. 
 
            Now,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant All In Credit Union (AICU) moves for leave to file
a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC). 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that on 2/11/2021, Plaintiff entered into a Home Installation Agreement
with Entron for the sale and installation of a photovoltaic system (PVS) at
Plaintiff’s residence. Plaintiff allegedly entered into a loan agreement with
All in Credit Union to finance this purchase. 
            
            Plaintiff
alleges that the contract price included relocation of an electrical panel.
Entron allegedly attached the PVS modules to the roof, and then informed
Plaintiff that the electrical panel relocation was too difficult to include in
the contract price. Entron then allegedly demanded $2,000.00 to relocate the
electrical panel, then increased the demand to $8,000. When Plaintiff refused
to sign a Contract addendum that did not include a price, Entron allegedly ceased
communications with Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff
subsequently hired an independent electrician to move the electrical panel for
$10,000.00 and allegedly called Entron to complete the installation of the PVS.
Entron has allegedly refused to do so.
 
Discussion 
 
            AICU
seeks leave to file a FAXC in order to make the following amendments: (1) the
addition of Cross-Defendant, Sunlight financial LLC for breach of contract; and
(2) the addition of Entron Holding Inc. dba Enerpower’s alleged owners/alter egos,
Brandon Carl Pattillo and Vanessa Pattillo. 
 
            AICU
argues that good cause exists to grant leave because AICU only recently learned
of the supporting facts to add these Defendants. More specifically, on
9/19/2023, AICU learned that Entron did not obtain permits to do the solar
panel work, and shortly went out of business after receiving the money from
AICU. AICU contends that it had contracted with Sunlight Financial LLC to vet
and properly screen and monitor solar contracts such Entron, and thus its failure
to screen/monitor Entron (in light of the new discovery of Entron’s conduct) gives
rise to a claim against it. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees that leave to amend is appropriate here. The policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is
an abuse of discretion to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show
meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Here, no meaningful
prejudice will result to any party given that trial is not until August 2024. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, AICU’s motion for leave to amend to file a FAXC is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
             