

 
Background 
 
            On
March 6, 2024, Plaintiff Manuel Olmos Montes (“Plaintiff” or “the client”)
filed this action against Defendants Towing Solutions, LLC, Jose R. Rodriguez
Lopez, and Does 1 to 50 (collectively “Defendants”). This action arises from an
accident in which Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Lopez negligently operated
his tow truck, owned by Towing Solutions, LLC, such that vehicle he was towing
unlatched and impacted Plaintiff, causing injuries. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence (Pedestrian), (2)
Negligence, and (3) Res Ipsa Loquitor. 
 
            On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney Vicken H. Hagopian (“Counsel
Hagopian”) filed this unopposed Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
A motion to be relieved as counsel requires compliance with CRC,
Rule 3.1362. The Rule requires the following: (1) notice of motion and motion
to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under CCP § 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)); and (4) proof
of service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order
on all other parties who have appeared in the case.
 
 
 
 
Discussion 
 
            Counsel Hagopian filed the notice of
motion and motion (MC-051). The notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel has proof of service attached certifying that it was mailed to the
client and Defendant Towing Solutions, LLC. The Court notes that Defendant Jose
R. Rodriguez Lopez has not appeared in the case, and thus need not be served.
 
Counsel Hagopian also filed the declaration in support
(MC-052), which states that this motion was made because the client has been
unreachable. In September 2024, Counsel Hagopian’s office called the client 11
times and sent 4 text messages and one letter. (Hagopian Decl., ¶ 2.) There is
no proof of service for the declaration. While the declaration indicates the
client was served with the motion papers and the declaration, it is unclear
whether Towing Solutions, LLC was served with the declaration. Further, while the
declaration states that Counsel Hagopian served the client via mail at his last
known address (Hagopian Decl., ¶ 3(a).), Counsel Hagopian has not properly
verified that the client’s last known address is the client’s current address. According
to the declaration, Counsel Hagopian confirmed that the client’s address is
current within the past 30 days by “11 or more unanswered phone calls,” “4 text
messages were not rejected and no response,” and “1st class mail was not
returned and no response.” (Hagopian Decl., ¶ 3(b).) The Court finds that the
client’s silence does not verify that his address is current. CRC, Rule
3.1362(d) states that “As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the address
was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.
Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last known
address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message was
received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies.” Counsel Hagopian assumes the fact that the calls, text messages, and
letter to client were not rejected or sent back is sufficient to prove the
client’s current address, but the Court finds otherwise according to CRC, Rule
3.1362(d).
 
Lastly, Counsel Hagopian filed a proposed order (MC-053) but
has not attached proof of service.
 
            The Court DENIES the motion because
(1) there is no proof of service for the declaration (MC-052) or the proposed
order (MC-053), and (2) the client’s current address has not been adequately
verified.
 
Conclusion
 
            The
Court DENIES the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 