 Case Number:  23STCP00105    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Al Davar v. Kim Johson, Director of California
Department of Social Services, 23STCP00105

 
Tentative decision on motion to continue trial: denied
unless DSS waives defect



 
Petitioner Al Davar (“Davar”) moves to continue the trial
set for September 17, 2024.  The court
has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed), and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Petitioner Davar commenced this proceeding on January 12, 2023,
alleging a cause of action for administrative mandamus.  The Petition alleges in pertinent part as
follows.  
Davar has been a recipient of a government benefit called
“CAPI”, administered by the state through its Department of Social Services
(“DSS”) and at the county level by the Department of Public Social Services
(“DPSS”).
On January 5, 2022, Davar had a hearing before
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) Allen Mason (“Mason”) concerning the
termination of his CAPI benefits.  ALJ
Mason’s decision was adopted by the DSS director on January 10, 2022 and
received by Davar on January 15, 2022.
Davar contends that the ALJ did not have authority to take
action against a beneficiary on behalf of the county (DPSS) or substitute one
action for another and any such action would require a Notice of Action
(“NOA”).  The ALJ did not have authority to
substitute a suspension in lieu of DSS’ failed action of termination.  There is no evidence of a NOA for a
suspension.  DPSS’ two NOAs were based on
termination only.  Nor did DSS have such
authority.
ALJ Mason’s abuse of discretion apparently was motivated by
avoiding a decision on an important issue of retroactive benefits for wrongful
termination.  Since the county’s
termination is void on its face as found by ALJ Mason, and a suspension is
completely unfounded, the benefits must be restored as of the date of
termination.
Davar seeks administrative mandamus to set aside the
wrongful decision and order DSS to restore his benefits retroactively to the
date of wrongful determination.
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
Davar received a fee waiver on August 30, 2023 and his
request for accommodation was granted on September 26, 2023.
On November 29, 2023, DSS filed an Answer.  There is no proof of service on file for ALJ
Mason.
 
B. Applicable Law
To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, trial dates
are firm.  CRC 3.1332(a).   A party seeking continuance of trial must
make the request for continuance by noticed motion or e x parte application
with supporting declarations.  CRC
3.1332(b).  The party must make the
motion as soon as reasonably practicable once the necessity for continuance is
discovered.  Id. 
Although trial continuances are disfavored, each request
must be considered on its own merits. 
CRC 3.1332(c).  The decision
regarding a continuance request must be based upon good cause.  Id. 
Factors that may be considered when ruling on a continuance request
include: (a) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness, party,
or trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(b) the substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative
showing that the substitution is required in the interest of justice; (c) the
addition oof a new party under certain circumstances; and (d) a significant and
unanticipated change in the status of the case which renders it not ready for
trial.  CRC 3.1332(c)(1)-(7).
In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all relevant facts and circumstances, which may include (1) the
proximity of the trial date, (2) whether there has been any previous
continuance, (3) the length of continuance requested, (4) the availability of
alternative means of addressing the problem, (5) the prejudice to parties or
witnesses, (6) any preferential status of the case, (7) the impact on the
court’s calendar, (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial, (9)
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance, (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the request.  CRC 3.1332(d).
 
            C.
Analysis
            On
March 19, 2024, the court set trial for September 10, 2024 at 1:30 p.m.  Davar’s opening brief was ordered to be filed
and served by June 11, 2024.  The
opposition was ordered to be filed and served by July 22, 2024 and Davar’s
reply was ordered to be filed and served by August 21, 2024.
            On
April 8, 2024, the court sua sponte continued the trial for a week, to
September 17, 2024 at 1:30 p.m.  The
briefing schedule remained the same.
            Now,
Davar seeks to continue the trial.  His
handwritten motion was filed on June 11, 2024, the date his opening brief was
due.  It contains no proof of service on
DSS.  As a result, the court cannot
consider it and the motion is denied.
            If
Davar files a proof of service or DSS waives the defect, and the court considers
the motion, it is based on a claim that Davar cannot find someone to type his
opening brief.  He claims that his
previously approved accommodations for disability supports the need for a
continuance to keep up with the pace of court proceedings.
            Actually,
Davar’s disability request was to hold hearings in the afternoon on at least 60
days of notice and continue them if his health problems manifest.  The need for a typist is not included in this
request.  Nonetheless, if DSS does not
object, the court will continue trial with the admonition that Davar must file
his briefs by a date certain without excuses. 
The court will discuss the issue with both parties at hearing.
 
 