 Case Number:  23CHCV03888    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-25-24
Case #23CHCV03888, Hakop Jack Minassian vs. BMW
Financial Services NA, LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Valencia B. Imports, Inc. dba
Valencia BMW
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Hakop Jack Minassian
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Fraud and
Deceit
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Violation of
Business and Professions Code §
17200
·        
4th Cause of Action for Violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17500
·        
5th Cause of Action for Violation of
the Consumers Legal Remedies Act
 
RULING: Demurrer sustained without leave to amend
for the First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 6, 2019, Plaintiff Hakop Jack Minassian
(Plaintiff) visited Defendant Valencia BMW’s (Defendant) dealership. (Comp., ¶ 14.) After discussions
with a salesperson and finance manager at the dealership, Plaintiff decided to
lease a new 2019 BMW. (Comp., ¶
19.) Plaintiff alleges that the dealership employees informed him that he could
lease the vehicle at a low cost with a possibility to purchase it later, and
that by making lease payments, he could reduce the principal balance and
eventually buy the vehicle for a reduced price based on the number of payments
made. (Comp., ¶
17.) 
 
The agreed upon value of the vehicle was $113,587.00. (Comp.,
¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that he was told by the dealership’s finance manager
that he could walk away from the lease if the vehicle was worth less than the
residual balance or buy it if it was worth more, and that this is what
convinced Plaintiff to lease the vehicle. (Comp., ¶ 21.) The lease agreement was drafted by BMW
Financial Services. (Comp., ¶
22, Ex. A.) Plaintiff claims that the statements made by the dealership staff
regarding equity were false, and that had he known they were false, he would
not have leased the vehicle. (Comp., ¶¶
23-24.)
 
On
November 4, 2020, the vehicle was involved in a total loss incident, and
Plaintiff filed a claim with Farmers Insurance on November 10, 2020. (Comp., ¶
25.) On January 10, 2022, Farmers Insurance declared the vehicle a total loss
and determined the actual cash of the vehicle to be $90,689.00, plus sales tax
in the amount of $8,615.46, plus the license/transfer fees in the amount of
$834.68. (Comp., ¶ 26.)  After
subtracting the $1,000.00 deductible and other fees in the amount of $2,025.00,
Farmers Insurance transferred the insurance payout for the vehicle in the
amount of $97,114.14 to BMW Financial Services. (Comp., ¶ 26.) BMW Financial
Services collected the full sum of $97,114.14 and refused to remit any amounts
to Plaintiff. (Comp., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff alleges that BMW Financial Services
committed fraudulent conduct by withholding Plaintiff’s equity of $514.96 based
on the adjusted lease balance of $96,249.18. (Comp., ¶¶ 30-31.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that BMW Financial Services claimed itself to be the sole loss payee
and so it collected the full sum of the insurance proceeds and withheld
Plaintiff’s $514.96. (Comp., ¶ 34.) Plaintiff’s complaint alleges several other
possibilities for misinterpretation on the part of MBW Financial Services of
the parties’ lease agreement, including that the lease contained what Plaintiff
describes as an “unequivocal right to purchase the Subject Vehicle,” and that
there is no language that indicates the purchase option terminates if the
vehicle is declared a total loss. (Comp., ¶ 37.) Plaintiff also alleges that he
should have been able to purchase the vehicle pursuant to section 30 of the
Lease because he had complied with its requirements. (Comp., ¶ 39.)
 
Plaintiff
also alleges that while the insurance investigation was ongoing, Plaintiff
continued making 14 months of additional payments on the lease, and Plaintiff
alleges that he should have been paid back the $23,086.98 that he paid out over
those 14 months. (Comp., ¶¶ 51-54.) Plaintiff was obligated to make these
payments pursuant to section 25 of the lease, set forth below. (Comp., Ex. A.) He
does not allege that he made any payments past the period during which the
insurance proceeds payment was pending. However, Plaintiff alleges that he is
entitled to a total of $23,601.94, based on his equity and the payments he made
during the insurance investigation. (Comp., ¶ 55.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that BMW Financial Services has multiple consumer complaints against it
for similar situations. (Comp., ¶ 57.) Plaintiff alleges that this evidences a
scheme on the part of BMW to induce consumers to agree to lease vehicles, and
that he would not have agreed to lease the vehicle if he knew about it. (Comp.,
¶¶ 58-59.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have refused to pay Plaintiff’s
damages. (Comp., ¶ 64.)
 
Based
on these facts, Plaintiff has alleged five causes of action against Defendants
for (1) Fraud and Deceit; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; (3) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200; (4)
Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17500; and (5) Violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act.
 
The relevant lease agreement provisions to Plaintiff’s
complaint and Defendant’s demurrer are the following:
 
“27. Purchase Option. I have an
option to purchase the Vehicle AS-IS, WHERE-IS. If I want to buy the Vehicle, I
will notify you in advance and agree to complete any documents you require for
the purchase. I also agree to re-register and re-title the Vehicle at my own
expense in my name at the time I purchase it…Prior to the end of the Lease
Term, the purchase price will be the Adjusted Lease Balance (Section 30). In
either case, I agree to also pay any other amounts due or outstanding under the
Lease at the time of purchase such as any official fees, unpaid Monthly
Payments or late charges.”
 
“24. Vehicle Loss or Damage. I
agree to immediately notify you if the Vehicle is damaged or destroyed in an
accident…In that event, you reserve the right to terminate this Lease and my
liability with either be: (a) calculated under Section 25 below, if I am in
compliance with my insurance obligations; or (b) calculated under Section 23
above, if I am not in compliance with my insurance obligations. If the Vehicle
is…destroyed, another vehicle may be substituted in its place only if you agree
to the substitution. You have no obligation to provide a substitution vehicle…”
 
“25. “Gap Amount” Waiver. If I
am in compliance with my insurance obligations under this Lease and the Vehicle
is damaged, stolen or destroy and considered a total loss under my insurance
coverage, I will not be obligated to pay you the gap amount (the difference
between the Adjusted Lease Balance and the actual cash value of the Vehicle as
of the date of loss) if the claim for total loss is actually paid to you by my
insurance company. However, I will be obligated to pay you: (1) any and all
amounts due and owing needed to satisfy my obligations under this Lease…; plus
(2) any amounts (including Monthly Payments) that become due pending receipt of
the insurance proceeds, plus (3) the deductible amount under my insurance
policy, plus (4) any amounts deducted from the actual cash value of the Vehicle
by the insurance carrier…”
 
“31. Realized Value of the
Vehicle. For the purpose of calculating my Early Termination liability (Section
30), the Realized Value of the Vehicle is (a) the price you receive for the
Vehicle upon disposition in a commercially reasonable manner…If the Vehicle is
a total loss as set forth in Section 24 above and I am in compliance with my
insurance obligations, the amount of any deductible and the proceeds of the
settlement of the insurance claim you receive are the “Realized Value.”…”
 
(Comp., Ex. A.)
 
Defendant Valencia BMW has demurred to all five causes of
action on the basis that they fail to state a cause of action against it. It
argues that the complaint contains numerous allegations against BMW Financial
Services, but the complaint does not make clear why Valencia BMW has any liability.
 
Plaintiff argues in his opposition that the demurrer’s
arguments are without merit and that Plaintiff has pled facts sufficient to
maintain each cause of action. Defendant argues in its reply that the
opposition fails to overcome the demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff’s opposition appears to
indicate that its complaint is premised on the theory that BMW Financial
Services and the dealership Valencia B. Imports, Inc. dba Valencia BMW are “the
agents, servants, employees, and/or joint venturers of their co-defendants and,
as such, were acting within the course, scope, and authority of said agency,
employment, and/or venture.” (Comp., ¶ 6.) In Valencia BMW’s reply, it argues
that this is not the case, as the two are separate entities and Valencia BMW is
not a party to the lease agreement that is at issue in this case. Defendant
also argues that it and BMW Financial Services are not alter egos to one another
and that Plaintiff has not alleged that that they are. 
 
In order to allege a unity of interest between the between
the alleged alter ego companies, a plaintiff must allege facts to support that
unity and that the failure to recognize alter ego relationship would lead to an
inequitable result. (See Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399,
411.) Plaintiff has not alleged that here. They are not alter egos of each
other. Valencia BMW is a dealership. BMW Financial Services is a separate
entity that handles the leasing of new BMWs. BMW Financial Services was the party
to the lease agreement, not Valencia BMW.
 
First Cause of Action for Fraud and Deceit
Defendant demurs to the First Cause of Action on the basis
that it fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
A fraud cause of action requires a Plaintiff to plead and
prove: “(a) [a] misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal 4th 631, 638.) Fraud
causes of action must be pled with specificity. “…This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom
and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v.
Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73, quoting Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)
 
Fraud claims against a corporation must “allege the names of
the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
To the extent that Plaintiff alleges that Valencia BMW was
part of a scheme with BMW Financial Services because the two are alter egos of
one another, the Court rejects this argument given that they are separate
entities.
 
Furthermore, while Plaintiff alleges that the salesperson
and finance manager at Valencia BMW made representations to Plaintiff about how
he could obtain equity through a lease agreement, nowhere does Plaintiff allege
that they made misrepresentations regarding what happens when an insurance
company deems a vehicle a total loss. Plaintiff only alleges that they made
general representations regarding how equity worked and how Plaintiff could
purchase the vehicle. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff was given the opportunity to review
the lease before signing it. (See Comp., ¶¶ 20-21.) To the extent that
Plaintiff is arguing that the lease agreement was somehow unconscionable, that
is irrelevant to the allegations that Plaintiff has made concerning fraud.
Fraud causes of action are not based on the conscionability of agreements. The
Court will not consider Plaintiff’s arguments on conscionability. Regardless, to
be unconscionable, a contract must be both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. (Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 905.) It was
certainly not procedurally unconscionable, as there was no oppression or
surprise, and Plaintiff did not sign the contract under duress. (Id. at
906.)
 
There would also be no fraud because the terms of the lease
agreement show that BMW Financial Services had the unilateral right to
terminate in situations of total loss, and the purchase option cannot be
construed to apply in that situation. (See Comp., Ex. A, Section 24.) Plaintiff
attached the lease agreement to his complaint. The Court may consider the terms
of the lease agreement. “‘While the “allegations [of a complaint] must be
accepted as true for purposes of demurrer,” the “facts appearing in exhibits
attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and, if contrary
to the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.”’” (Moran v.
Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2016) 3 Cap.App.5th 1131, 1145-1146.) 
 
“When interpreting a contract, a court must consider the ‘clear
and explicit’ ‘language of [the] contract’ (Civ. Code, § 1638), generally
construing ‘[t]he words ... in their ordinary and popular sense ... unless used
by the parties in a technical sense’ (Civ. Code, § 1644), and taking ‘[t]he
whole of [the] contract ... together, so as to give effect to every part, if
reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other’ (Civ. Code,
§ 1641).” (Id. at 1146.)
 
Interpreting the lease agreement in this case, the purchase
option provision of the lease (Section 31) is separate from the provision
related to total loss (Section 24). The purchase option does not override BMW
Financial Services’ right to terminate the lease. Plaintiff’s interpretation
that the purchase option would somehow override the provisions of the total
loss section that allows BMW Financial Services to terminate the lease does not
make sense. BMW Financial Services’ right to terminate the lease in the event
of total loss would override the right to purchase, as it does here.
 
Furthermore, to the extent that Plaintiff alleges that the
payments he made during the period that the insurance investigation was ongoing
should be returned, during that period, Plaintiff was obligated to continue
making lease payments by the Gap Amount provision of the lease agreement. (Comp.,
Ex. A, Section 25.) Plaintiff does not allege that he made any payments past
that point required by the lease agreement. Therefore, there was no fraud in
relation to any representations that were made about those payments.
 
As a result, setting aside whether the dealer has liability
separate from BMW Financial Services, no fraud occurred. The terms of the lease
are clear. While Plaintiff did have the option to purchase the vehicle, that
did not override BMW Financial Services’ right to terminate the lease in the
event of a total loss.
 
Plaintiff has not pled facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for fraud against Defendant Valencia BMW. Nothing in the lease
agreement would support Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud or shows a
possibility that a different meaning could be present, so Defendant’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend. (See George
v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112,
1128-1130.)
 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action on
the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
 
The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is
limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of the contract. (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032.) It cannot impose substantives duties or limits on the
contracting parties beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their
agreement. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
349-350.) This is because the implied covenant “…cannot be read to require
defendants to take a particular action that is discretionary under the contract
when the contract also expressly grants them the discretion to take a different
action.” (Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 230,
256.)
 
First, Valencia BMW is not a party to the lease agreement.
The lease agreement is between Plaintiff and BMW Financial Services. Plaintiff
cannot allege that Valencia BMW failed to deal with good faith and fair dealing
pursuant to the contract because Valencia BMW was not a party to the contract.
 
Additionally, Defendant points out in its demurrer BMW
Financial Services had the option under the lease agreement to terminate the
lease in the event that the vehicle was damaged or destroyed, and if the lessee
was in compliance with insurance obligations, he was not required to pay a gap
amount. (Comp., Ex. A, Sections 24, 25.) BMW Financial Services was also
entitled to receive the “realized value” of the vehicle in the event of a total
loss. (Comp., Ex. A, Section 31.) Even if Valencia BMW were a party to the
contract, based on these provisions, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged
that it was in breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
is sustained without leave to amend. Valencia BMW is not a party to the
contract, as is evident from the lease agreement attached as Exhibit A to
Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
Third Cause of Action for Violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17200, Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17500, and Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Third, Fourth, Fifth Cause
of Action on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
 
Defendant argues that the common element in these three
causes of action was that there had been an alleged misrepresentation or other
unfair act. Defendant lays it out as follows:
“Minassian has judicially admitted
(1) he specifically came to the Dealership looking for a lease; (2) the
Dealership laid out the terms and documentation for him; (3) he read, reviewed,
and understood the terms; (4) he agreed they reflected what he wanted; (5) he
signed the Lease Agreement where he acknowledged that he read and understood
the terms of the Lease Agreement; (6) he attached a true and correct copy of
the Lease Agreement to the Complaint; (7) in the event of a total loss
settlement the Lease Agreement expressly authorized BMWFS to terminate the
lease, accept the total loss settlement, and release Minassian from the
remainder of the Lease Agreement; (8) Farmers Insurance paid out a total loss
settlement to BMWFS; and (9) BMWFS dutifully accepted the total loss settlement
and released Minassian from the rest of the Lease Agreement. (Complaint, ¶¶ 16,
20, 25-28, and Ex. A at Sections 24, 25, 31, and 37, among others.)
Furthermore, Minassian does not allege he was somehow forced to enter the Lease
Agreement and he could have rejected the deal presented at any time.”
(Defendant’s Demurrer, p. 16.)
 
For the Third and Fourth Causes of Action, Plaintiff is
alleging that Defendant BMW Financial Services withheld his equity and monthly
payments, not Valencia BMW. (Comp., ¶¶ 93, 117, 122.) Plaintiff has also failed
to allege that Valencia BMW made misrepresentations to Plaintiff regarding what
happens in the event of a total loss. To the extent that Valenica BMW’s
representatives made representations to Plaintiff regarding the building of
equity and how he could buy the vehicle, those representations were not related
to the total loss of the vehicle.
 
For the Fifth Cause of Action, Plaintiff is alleging that
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act was violated because the terms of the lease
were not honored. Once again, the lease agreement was between Plaintiff and BMW
Financial Services. Valencia BMW did not have any obligations under the lease
agreement.
 
As an alternative basis for sustaining the demurrer to these
causes of action, there can be no statutory violation if BMW complied with the
terms of lease. As discussed above, the Court finds that BMW did comply with
the terms of the lease based on the total loss (Section 24) and gap amount (Section
25) provisions. (See Comp., Ex. A.)
 
Because Plaintiff cannot allege that Valencia BMW had
obligations under the lease agreement or that the lease agreement was breached
in any way, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes
of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third,
Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.