 Case Number:  23CHCV02864    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-30-24
Case #23CHCV02864,
Rico Ellis vs. Exeter Finance, LLC
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Exeter Finance LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action.
 
RULING: Petition
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Rico
Ellis (Plaintiff), in pro per, filed this action on September 26, 2023. He
alleges that Defendant Exeter Finance LLC (Defendant), as his auto-finance
lender, wrongfully repossessed and sold his vehicle despite his timely payments
on his auto-loan. Plaintiff’s complaint alleges three causes of action against
Defendant for negligence, fraud, and conversion.
 
On February 8,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel arbitration based on the
arbitration clause in a Retail Installment Sale Contract – Simple Finance
Charge (RISC) that Plaintiff signed on or about July 28, 2021, when he
purchased a used vehicle from Norm Reeves Honda of Cerritos. The relevant
arbitration provision reads as follows:
“ARBITRATION PROVISION
…
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY
DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL…
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability
of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.” (Nerios
Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)
 
On the reverse
side, the RISC states as follows:
“Agreement to Arbitrate: By signing below,
you agree that, pursuant to the Arbitration Provision on the reverse side of
this contract, you or we may elect to resolve any dispute by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by court action. See the Arbitration Provision for
additional information concerning the agreement to arbitrate.” (Nerios Decl.,
Ex. A, p. 1.)
 
At the very
bottom of the second page of the RISC, it states that “Seller [Norm Reeves
Honda of Cerritos] assigns its interest in the contract to” followed by a stamp
with Defendant Exeter Finance’s name. (Nerios Decl., Ex. A, p 2.) This makes Defendant
the seller’s Assignee for purposes of the RISC. Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s claims are subject to arbitration because Plaintiff’s vehicle was
repossessed because Plaintiff allegedly broke promises in the RISC.
 
ANALYSIS
California law incorporates
many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The petitioner bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
The party
petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence. The trial court acts as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence. (CCP
§ 1281.2.)
 
Existence of
an Agreement
Under
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (CCP § 1281.2.) In ruling on a
motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the
parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of
California contract law help guide the court in making this determination. (Mendez
v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
Once
petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See
Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
“With respect
to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218); see also CRC Rule 3.1330 [“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) 
 
Defendant has
met its initial burden of showing that an arbitration agreement exists with
Plaintiff. (Nerios Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-2.) The arbitration agreement appears
valid and was signed by Plaintiff. Norm Reeves Honda of Cerritos, the Seller,
assigned its interest in the contract to Defendant Exeter Finance. (Nerios
Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.) The arbitration clause specifically states that “Any claim
or dispute…between you and us or our…assigns, which arises out of or relates to
your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract
or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship
with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.”
(Nerios Decl., Ex. A, p 2.) Furthermore, Plaintiff’s claims regarding the
repossession of his vehicle arise out of the RISC for purposes of arbitration.
 
Defendant has
established that there is an arbitration agreement and that it was the Seller’s
assignee for that agreement. Plaintiff has not filed any opposition to the
Motion to Compel Arbitration. The Court grants Defendant’s petition.
 
Defendant’s
Petition to Compel Arbitration is granted. Litigation is stayed pending
arbitration.
 
Moving party to
give notice.