 Case Number:  22SMCV00915    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  AARON CELIOUS,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date: January 31, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT ERNESTO MORALES’    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE    FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT       This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  It was not chosen for either project.   Defendant Ernesto Morales’ company, North Star Alliances LLC, was awarded the bid for one of the projects.  Defendant Robin Engel’s company, Star Insights, LLC, was awarded the bid for the other project.  Plaintiff alleges that Engel and Morales grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.   This hearing is on Morales’ demurrer to, and motion to strike, the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Morales argues that a demurrer should be sustained because (1) Plaintiff lacks standing to sue on his UCL claim as the claim could not be assigned from Maroon to Plaintiff, and (2) Plaintiff’s tortious interference claims fail to allege that Morales was aware of any economic relationship between Plaintiff and the City.  Morales also moves to strike (1) Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages as Maroon could not have assigned its punitive damages claim to Plaintiff, (2) Plaintiff’s prayer for “legal costs” as Morales claims it is a veiled attempt to recover attorneys’ fees which the Court previously concluded was not recoverable and (3) Plaintiff’s claim for statutory damages as the two causes of action against Morales do not entitle Plaintiff to recover such damages.   Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  Morales submits the Declaration of John Hogan which fails to show the parties met and conferred “in person or by telephone.”   Accordingly, the Court continues the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike to March 27, 2024, to allow Morales the opportunity to comply with the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41, 435.5 and/or to submit a revised declaration.     On its own motion, the Court also reverses its prior order on November 28, 2023 striking Plaintiff’s second amended complaint.  The Court erroneously concluded Plaintiff had not sought leave to file the second amended complaint.  In fact, there was a stipulation and order entitling Plaintiff to file the second amended complaint on August 18, 2023.  Accordingly, for purposes of the hearing on March 27, 2024, the Court will rule on the merits of Morales’ November 6, 2023 demurrer and motion to strike the Second Amended Complaint.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: January 31, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 