 Case Number:  23STCP00079    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   March
20, 2024                                               
 
CASE NAME:           Pearl
Beta Funding, LLC v. Lonewolf Insurance Services, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCP00079

 
MOTION
TO AMEND JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Pearl Beta Funding, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of March 18, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order amending the Judgment against Judgment Debtor, Stefan Joseph Leer and KTL
Holdings, Inc. to include Three Zero Four Zero Two Holding, LLC and Tatanisha
Leer aka Tanisha as judgment debtors.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to Amend is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part:
a.       Granted
as to Three Zero Four Zero Two Holding, LLC;
b.      Denied
as to Tatanisha Leer aka Tanisha.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 4, 2023, Plaintiff Pearl Beta Funding, LLC
(Judgment Creditor) filed an Application for Entry of Judgment on Sister-State
Judgment naming Judgment Debtors Lonewolf Insurance Services, Inc., El Dorado
Hills Insurance Solutions Inc., Golden Foothill Insurance Services LLC, The
Genesis LS Fund LLC, Life Shares LLC, KTL Holdings Inc., and Stefan Joseph Leer
(Judgment Debtors). 
 
On January 12, 2023, Judgment on Sister-State Judgment was
entered by the clerk.
 
On July 14, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an Application for
Issuance of Writ of Execution, Possession or Sale for property located at 30402
Marbella Vista, San Juan Capistrano, CA 92675 owned by Judgment Debtor Stefan
Joseph Leer.
 
On July 14, 2023, Judgment Creditor obtained a Writ of
Execution (Money Judgment) against all Judgment Debtors and filed a Memorandum
of Costs after Judgment.
 
On September 26, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an
Application and Order for Appearance and Examination of Judgment Debtor Stefan
Joseph Leer.
 
On September 27, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed an
Application and Order for Appearance and Examination of Third Person Tatanish
L. Leer which was granted.
 
On January 17, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed a Return to
Court Writ of Execution.
 
On February 13, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed the instant
Motion to Amend Judgment pursuant to CCP § 187. As of March 18, 2024, there are
no oppositions filed with the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Amend Judgment
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 187 
 
When
jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute,
conferred on a Court or judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it
into effect are also given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the
course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the
statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may
appear most conformable to the spirit of this Code. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) This section empowers the Court
to “use all the means necessary” to carry its jurisdiction into effect. 
The Court therefore has authority in certain circumstances to amend a judgment
against a corporation (or other entity) to add as a judgment debtor the
entity's nonparty “alter ego” who controlled the underlying litigation.  In
effect, “amending a judgment to add an alter ego does not add a new defendant but instead inserts the
correct name of the real defendant.” (Misik
v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1072-1073 [complaint only named LLC,
which was totally controlled by individual].)  It is not necessary that alter ego doctrine be alleged or
proved in the underlying lawsuit. (Id. at 1074-1075; Danko v. O’Reilly (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
732, 741.) 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Judgment Creditor’s
request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 1 through 10. (Evid. Code
§ 452(c), (h); See Kalnoki v. First
American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.)
However, the court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only
as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other
specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Judgment Creditor seeks to amend the
judgment against Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer (Stefan) to include his
spouse, Tatanisha Leer aka Tanisha (Tatanisha) with respect to community
property assets due to fraudulent conveyance to a Wyoming LLC called Three Zero
Four Zero Two Holding LLC (Wyoming LLC). 
 
Alter Ego Liability
 
Judgment Creditor requests that the court disregard the corporate
form for the Wyoming LLC.
 
Judgment Creditor must show: “(1) the parties to be added as
judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually
represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no
longer existed; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are
treated as those of the entity alone.”  (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 172, 194 (JPV); see
also Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 486, 511 (Greenspan)
[identifying these requirements as two items rather than three items].) 
Whether the evidence has established that the corporate veil should be ignored
is primarily a question of fact which should not be disturbed when supported by
substantial evidence.” (Id. at 512;
quoting Las Palmas Associates v. Las
Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1248.) While alter ego
is an extreme remedy and sparingly used, courts are allowed “the greatest
liberality” in amending judgments to add the “real defendant or alter ego of
the original judgment debtor in order to see that justice is done.” (JPV, supra, at p. 189.) 
 
There are various relevant factors in applying the alter ego doctrine
including:
“one individual's ownership of all stock
in a corporation; use of the same office or business location; commingling of
funds and other assets of the individual and the corporation; an individual
holding out that he is personally liable for debts of the corporation;
identical directors and officers; failure to maintain minutes or adequate
corporate records; disregard of corporate formalities; absence of corporate
assets and inadequate capitalization; and the use of a corporation as a mere
shell, instrumentality or conduit for the business of an individual . . . the
use of the corporate entity to procure labor, services or merchandise for
another person or entity” and “the diversion of assets from a corporation by or
to a stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors.”
 
(Id. at p. 195.
[citing Misik, supra, at p. 1073 and Greenspan, supra, at p. 513.]) Courts
may also narrowly focus on “certain inequitable uses of the corporate form for
specific purposes” where disregarding the corporate form is appropriate while
leaving it intact for all other purposes. (Ibid.
[citing Kohn v. Kohn (1950) 95
Cal.App.2d 708.]) 
 
Judgment Creditor also argues that the single enterprise rule
applies. “Generally, alter ego liability is reserved for the parent-subsidiary
relationship.  However, under the
single-enterprise rule, liability can be founded between sister companies.  The theory has been described as
follows:  ‘“In effect what happens is
that the court, for sufficient reason, has determined that though there are two
or more personalities, there is but one enterprise; and that this enterprise
has been so handled that it should respond, as a whole, for the debts of
certain component elements of it.  The
court thus has constructed for purposes of imposing liability an entity unknown
to any secretary of state comprising assets and liabilities of two or more
legal personalities; endowed that entity with the assets of both, and charged
it with the liabilities of one or both.”’ 
[Citation.]”  (Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center
Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1249-1250.)  “Factors for the trial court to consider
include the commingling of funds and assets of the two entities, identical
equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees,
disregard of corporate formalities, identical directors and officers, and use
of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.  [Citation.] 
‘No one characteristic governs, but the courts must look at all the
circumstances to determine whether the doctrine should be applied.  [Citation.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1341-1342.)
 
It appears to the court that the factors weigh in favor of
the single entity rule, if not for limited applicability alter ego liability.
The two critical factors here are the same parties involved in the corporate
forms at issue, use of mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other, and
the risk of inequitable result but for finding liability. The heaviest factor
is the risk of inequitable result. First, Judgment was entered on September 13,
2021, in New York against Judgment Debtors, including Stefan Joseph Leer and
KTL Holdings Inc. (Cohen Decl., Exhibit A.) Judgment Creditor and Judgment
Debtors, executed by Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer on behalf of all named
Defendants, on December 10, 2021. (Cohen Decl., Exhibit B.) This indicates that
Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer knew there was a judgment against him.
Judgment Creditor then filed this action due to Judgment Debtors’ default under
the settlement agreement.[1] (Cohen Decl. ¶
3.) There is then a series of entity amendments and property transfers
identified by Judgment Creditor of an asset, the real property located in San
Juan Capistrano, purportedly to keep it out of Judgment Creditor’s reach. (See
RJN Exhibits 1 through 10.) The Wyoming LLC was created after this Judgment,
and after this action commenced, in around April 2023. (RJN, Exhibit No. 6.) Tatanisha
Leer was the Wyoming LLC’s member. (RJN, Exhibit 7.) In April 2023, another
entity, DRVN Holdings, LLC (which Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer had
previously been a member of), transferred the SJC Property to Tatanisha Leer as
her sole and separate property. (RJN, Exhibits 8.) Tatanisha Leer executed this
grant deed as a member of DRVN Holdings, LLC. (Ibid.) That same date, Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer executed
a quitclaim deed of that property to Tatanisha Leer. (RJN, Exhibit 9.) One
month later, in May 2023, Tatanisha Leer granted the property to the Wyoming
LLC. (RJN, Exhibit 10.) 
 
Accordingly, the court agrees with Judgment Creditor that
there is substantial evidence that the Wyoming LLC was created to shield
Judgment Debtors’ assets, namely the SJC Property, from Judgment Creditor.
 
Community Property
 
Judgment Creditor seeks to add Tatanisha Leer as a judgment
debtor in order to pursue claims against community property with her spouse,
current Judgment Debtor Stefan Joseph Leer.
 
CCP §695.010(a) provides: “Except as otherwise provided by
law, all property of the judgment debtor is subject to enforcement of a money
judgment.”
 
Here, it is unclear to the court what assets Judgment
Creditor seeks by including Tatanisha Leer as a party. The authority cited by
Judgment Creditor indicates the non-debtor spouse must be named if the creditor
seeks their separate property, not the community property. The only asset
identified in the motion is the SJC Property which, according to the records
produced by Judgment Creditor, belongs to the Wyoming LLC – not to Tatanisha
Leer as community or separate property. Judgment Creditor has not identified
what property it seeks to reach belonging to Tatanisha Leer as her sole and
separate property.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Judgment Creditor’s motion
to amend the judgment to the extent it adds Tatanisha Leer as a Judgment
Debtor.
 
Fraudulent Transfer
– Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (UVTA)
 
Judgment Creditor contends that the court should amend the
judgment to incluse Tatanisha Leer and the Wyoming LLC under the UVTA.
 
In California, a fraudulent conveyance under the Uniform
Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”) involves “a transfer by the debtor of
property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor
from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip v. Bucurenciu (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829.) A transfer
under the UVTA is fraudulent as to a creditor if the debtor made the transfer
with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor.
(See Civ. Code, § 3439.04(a); Filip,
supra, 129 Cal.App.4th at 829.)¿ 
 
To find a transfer voidable as to a creditor, the transfer
by the debtor must be made with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud the
creditor or the debtor. (See Id., §
3439.04(a).) Some factors that may be considered in determining actual intent
are: (1) whether the transfer or obligation was to an insider; (2) whether the
debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after the
transfer; (3) whether the transfer or obligation was disclosed or concealed;
(4) whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor
had been sued or threatened with suit; (5) whether the transfer was of
substantially all the debtor’s assets; (6) whether the debtor absconded; (7)
whether the debtor removed or concealed assets; (8) whether the value of the
consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of
the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred; (9) whether the
debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or
the obligation was incurred; (10) whether the transfer occurred shortly before
or shortly after a substantial debt was incurred; and (11) whether the debtor
transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred
the assets to an insider of the debtor. (Id., § 3439.04(b).)¿¿
 
Here, the same facts discussed under the alter ego liability
analysis apply. There is a suspicious string of entity formation and property
transfers after Judgment Creditor’s judgment and settlement agreement with
Judgment Debtors.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Judgment Creditor’s motion
to amend as to the Wyoming LLC.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion for Leave to Amend is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part:
c.       Granted
as to Three Zero Four Zero Two Holding, LLC;
d.      Denied
as to Tatanisha Leer aka Tanisha.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              March 20, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


