 Case Number:  23STCV13788    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Azariah M. Ellington,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV13788




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Franchise Tax Board of California, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 27, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Franchise Tax Board and
Daniel Ortiz
Responding Party: Plaintiff Azariah M. Ellington
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 15, 2023, Plaintiff Azariah M.
Ellington sued Defendants Franchise Tax Board of California and Daniel Ortiz,
asserting causes of action for (1) reckless disregard; (2) criminal negligence;
(3) elder abuse; (4) tortious interference; (5) abuse of authority; (6)
invasion of privacy; (7) fraud; (8) bank fraud; and (9) mail fraud.
 
On October 12, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint. On November 22, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for (1) civil rights violation; (2)
negligence; (3) abuse of authority; (4) IIED/elder abuse; (5) invasion of privacy;
(6) fraud; and (7) interference with business. Following another demurrer,
Plaintiff filed the operative second amended complaint for the same causes of
action.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants have
improperly levied exempt bank accounts.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the second amended
complaint on the grounds that it is uncertain and fails to state sufficient
facts, Defendants are immune from liability, and Plaintiff failed to comply
with the claim presentation requirements of the Government Code. 
 
Under Gov. Code § 860.2, public
entities and public employees are immune from liability for any injury caused
by: (a) “[i]nstituting any judicial or administrative proceeding or action for
or incidental to the assessment or collection of a tax”; or (b) “[a]n act or
omission in the interpretation or application of any law relating to a tax.”
Gov. Code § 815 states public entities are immune from liability for common law
torts. Gov. Code § 945.4 requires an individual to file a claim with the
defendant public entity before filing suit for damages.
 
Here and in Plaintiff’s previous
iterations of the complaint, Plaintiff alleges his only income is from social
security and that, under federal and state law, Defendants cannot levy tax debt
from accounts in which SSI funds are deposited. Plaintiff seeks damages against
Defendants. Plaintiff does not allege compliance with the claim presentation requirements,
nor does Plaintiff allege statutory authority allowing tort liability against
Defendants. As pleaded, the FAC is barred.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. Plaintiff does not show that these issues can be corrected in
another amended complaint. The motion to strike is MOOT.
 
 
 