 Case Number:  24STCV03550    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Devin Steward,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV03550




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
TABC, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 27, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants Aerotek, Inc. and Duluth
Services, Inc., joined by Defenant TABC, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Devin Stewart
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants, asserting seven causes of action for FEHA
violations and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement and Applicable Law
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff on April 10, 2023.
(Decl. Cometa-Fasanello, Exh. B.) The agreement provides, “all disputes,
claims, complaints, or controversies . . . including … discrimination and/or
harassment claims; retaliation claims; … and any other claim … arising out of
and/or directly or indirectly related to my application for employment with the
Company, and/or my employment with the Company, and/or the terms and conditions
of my employment with the Company, and/or termination of my employment with the
Company... are subject to confidential arbitration pursuant to the terms of
this Agreement and will be resolved by Arbitration and NOT by a court or jury.” (Id.) This action arises from
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants.
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable as an adhesion contract. Regarding
procedural unconscionability, the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds a low degree of
procedural unconscionability exists here, as the agreement is one of adhesion.
This low degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it limits depositions and requires that arbitration
be conducted by JAMS. The JAMS discovery rules allow for at least one
deposition for both sides and allow for additional discovery through the
arbitrator. This does not limit Plaintiff’s discovery. Plaintiff cites no other
one-sided or unfair provisions in the JAMS rules. Plaintiff has not shown the
agreement is unconscionable.
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED. The action is STAYED.


 