  Case Number:  21STCV43687    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Anabi Oil Corporation,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV43687 (Consolidated w/ 21STCV4481)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Fuel Enterprise, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 27, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions for Attorney’s Fees;
(2) Motions to Tax Costs
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $378,205.00.
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS IS GRANTED IN PART.
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’ MOTION
TO TAX COSTS IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
These two, consolidated actions arise
from the operation of a gas station. Fuel Enterprise, Inc. purchased the
Covina, California station on November 17, 2020 from Georges Investments, Inc.
Anabi Oil supplied shell branded gasoline to Fuel enterprise under a supply contract.
Fuel Enterprise terminated the agreement in November 2021 by “debranding” the
station. The parties dispute the amount owed by Defendants for termination of
the contract.
 
Following a bench trial, the Court
found in favor of Defendants Fuel Enterprises, et al. against Plaintiff Anabi
on all causes of action in Anabi’s complaint. The Court found in favor of
Cross-Complainants Fuel Enterprises and Asaph Guirguis and against
Cross-Defendant Anabi on all causes of action in the cross-complaint except for
the fourth cause of action for Violation of Business and
Professions Code section 21148. 
 
The Court found that Defendants/Cross-Complainants Fuel Enterprises had
properly tendered the amount owed under the relevant contracts prior to the commencement
of the action and found that the amount was still owed to Plaintiff. The Court concluded
that the tender was offset by damages incurred as a result of Plaintiff’s
improper default entered against the gas station and by the unreturned security
deposit Defendants had paid to Plaintiff, for a total of $48,156.51 still owed
to Plaintiff.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Defendants/Cross-Complainants Fuel
Enterprise, Inc., and Asaph Guirguis’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).) Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Fuel Enterprises, Inc. and Asaph Guirguis move for an award of attorney’s fees
under Civ. Code § 1717(a) on the ground that they are the prevailing parties
under the relevant contracts. 
 
1.    Prevailing Party
 
The parties dispute who the prevailing
parties are under the relevant contracts. Following a bench trial, the Court
found in favor of Defendants Fuel Enterprises, et al. against Plaintiff Anabi
on all causes of action in Anabi’s complaint. The Court found in favor of
Cross-Complainants Fuel Enterprises and Asaph Guirguis and against Cross-Defendant
Anabi on all causes of action in the cross-complaint except for the fourth
cause of action for Violation of Business and Professions Code
section 21148. 
 
As discussed, the Court found that Fuel Enterprises had properly
tendered the amount owed under the relevant contracts prior to the commencement
of the action; that amount was still owed to Plaintiff. The tender was offset
by damages resulting from Plaintiff’s improper default entered against the gas
station and the unreturned security deposit Defendants had paid to Plaintiff,
for a total of $48,156.51 still owed to Plaintiff.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants are the prevailing parties under the
contracts. They prevailed on every cause of action based on the contracts in
both the complaint and cross-complaint. Anabi asserts that it is the prevailing
party because it received a net monetary recovery of $48,156.51. But this alone
does not make Anabi the prevailing party. Anabi did not achieve any of its
litigation objectives, and caused damages to Fuel Enterprises. Had Anabi never
brought this litigation, it would have received approximately $200,000.00 more
than what was recovered here.
 
2.   
Reasonableness of Fees
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants seek $405,287.38 in fees and costs. Defendants’
counsel spent 869.5 hours in attorney time and 342.5 hours in paralegal time to
defend and prosecute this action. Counsel charges between $425.00 and $350.00
per hour in attorney fees and $75.00 per hour for paralegal fees for a total of
$378,205.00 in fees. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the fees are
excessive and unreasonable. The
Court does not find counsel’s billing entries excessive. None of the entries
cited by Defendant are so egregious to warrant being reduced. This action
lasted approximately three years, including significant motion work and
discovery, and it proceeded to trial. The Court finds that counsel’s fees are reasonable.

 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion
is GRANTED in the amount of $378,205.00 in fees. The
Court will address costs in Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs. 
 
B. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Anabi Oil’s Motion to Tax Costs
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided
by statute, “a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover
costs in any action or proceeding.”  (CCP
§ 1032(b).)  “Allowable costs shall be
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” 
(CCP § 1033.5(c)(2).)  “If the
items appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on
the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or
necessary.”  (Ladas v. California
State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 774.)  “On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.”  (Ibid.)
 
Anabi moves to strike Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ memorandum of costs
on the grounds that they are not prevailing party, and the memorandum was untimely
served. The Court has found that Defendants are the prevailing parties for fees
and costs. The Court declines to strike the memorandum because it was served
three days late. Plaintiff suffered no prejudice from this delay; the Court may
accept late served memoranda in its discretion. Both sides had a full
opportunity to brief the issues and be heard.
 
Plaintiff also moves to strike the requests for expert fees and trial
transcripts as unrecoverable fees. The Court agrees that these costs should be
stricken as unrecoverable. In opposition, Defendants assert that the contract
allows for greater recovery of costs because it states that the prevailing
party will be entitled to “legal costs.” This does not imply that a party is
entitled to costs otherwise unallowed by statute. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED in part. 
 
C. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Anabi Oil’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Anabi moves for an award of attorney’s fees
under Civ. Code § 1717(a). As
discussed, Defendants/Cross-Complainants are the prevailing parties for fees
under this provision. Anabi is not entitled to attorney’s fees.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s motion for
attorney’s fees is DENIED.
 
D. Defendants/Cross-Complainants’
Motion to Tax Costs
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants move to
tax Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s memorandum of costs on the ground that
Plaintiff is not the prevailing party. As stated, the Court agrees.
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ motion
to tax costs is GRANTED.
 
     