 Case Number:  23CHCV03722    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  F43 Clark
Crozer, et al. vs. General Motors, LLC
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Clark Crozer and Karen Crozer
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Attendance of
Defendant’s PMQ at deposition.
 
RULING: Defendant
is ordered to produce its PMQ for deposition within the next 30 days. Sanctions
are also awarded.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from Plaintiffs Clark Crozer and Karen Crozer’s (Plaintiffs) purchase of
an allegedly defective 2022 Chevrolet Bolt. On December 7, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant), alleging a
cause of action for a violation of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
On May 20,
2024, Plaintiffs filed and served this motion to compel deposition and for
monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,970.00.
 
On July 29,
2024, Defendant filed its opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion. Defendants argue in
their opposition that Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer in good faith
because Plaintiffs simply demanded deposition dates and did not attempt to
resolve the dispute without court intervention. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs only seek irrelevant materials, which is why Defendant objected to
many of the topics for deposition. Defendant also argues that some materials are
not discoverable because they are trade secrets.
 
On July 31,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant failed to
respond to any of their meet and confer attempts. Plaintiffs also argue that
their requested matters of examination are relevant and discoverable. Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s trade secret and confidentiality claims are meritless.
 
As will be
discussed below, the Court ordered the parties to meet and confer to find a
date for the deposition in the Court’s August 9 Minute Order. While the parties
met and conferred, Defendant never provided a date for the deposition. Plaintiffs
filed a declaration requesting that the Court rule on this motion.
 
ANALYSIS
A party “may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved . . . if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.) A party may obtain discovery regarding
relevant material. (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
Evidence is
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement.” (Glenfed Development
Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Any doubt on relevance
is resolved generally in favor of production. (Mercury Interactive Corp. v.
Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 98.) 
 
If, after
receiving a deposition notice, a party fails to appear, to answer any question,
or to produce any document or tangible thing specified in the deposition
notice, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling
attendance and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
 
On December 28,
2023, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
(PMQ). The deposition was set for January 19, 2024, but Defendant failed to
appear for the deposition or raise any objections. On March 22, 2024, Plaintiffs
wrote to Defendant to meet and confer regarding the deposition, but Defendant
failed to respond. On March 25, 2024, Plaintiffs served their First Amended
Notice of Deposition. On April 9, 2024, Defendant served its objections to the
Notice. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs wrote to Defendant to meet and confer
regarding the objections. Defendant did not respond. On April 15, 2024,
Plaintiffs served their Second Amended Notice of Deposition, withdrawing one of
the categories to which Defendant had objected. On May 7, 2024, following
Defendant’s failure to appear or object to the Second Amended Notice,
Plaintiffs again wrote to Defendant to meet and confer. Defendant once again
did not respond. Plaintiffs then filed this motion.
 
The Court
previously noted that there had been a lack of meet and confer and ordered the
parties to meet and confer to find a mutually agreeable date for deposition in
the August 9, 2024, Minute Order. The parties were to file a joint statement of
their meet and confer efforts and any remaining issues by September 3, 2024. No
joint statement was filed on that date, but on September 6, 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel filed a declaration regarding Plaintiffs’ effort to meet and confer.
The declaration indicates that while Defendant’s counsel spoke with Plaintiffs’
counsel, Defendant’s counsel never provided Plaintiffs’ counsel with a date for
the deposition, nor did Defendant’s counsel approve the joint statement that
Plaintiffs’ counsel sent him. (Kaufman Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.) 
 
Defendant has
failed to comply with the Court’s August 9 Order. The Court orders Defendant to
produce its PMQ for deposition within the next 30 days.
 
Sanctions
Previously,
this Court did not award sanctions but stated that if either party fails to
comply with this order, the Court will determine if sanctions are appropriate.
Plaintiffs requested in their attorney’s declaration that if Defendant does not
produce its witness within 30 days, the Court should award monetary sanctions
in the amount of $500 per day for every day that Defendant fails to produce a
witness beyond that time period, and Defendant has requested that the Court award
the previously requested sanctions of $2,970. (Kaufman Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
Due to
Defendant’s continued failure to produce its PMQ for deposition and its failure
to comply with the Court’s August 9 Minute Order, the Court finds that $2,970
is an appropriate amount of sanctions. Should Defendant fail to produce its PMQ
within the next 30 days, the Court will consider assessing additional
sanctions.
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiffs’
motion to compel deposition is granted. Defendant must produce its PMQ for
deposition within the next 30 days.
2.      Defendant
and Defendant’s counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of
$2,970 to Plaintiffs’ counsel within the next 30 days.
3.      Moving
party to give notice.