  Case Number:  22CHCV00005    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  F43 Macaria Beltran, Trustee of the MCB Trust vs. Patrick
Graham
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ORDER TO TERMINATE THE STAY
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Macaria Beltran, Trustee of the
MCB Trust
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiff has moved for an order to terminate the stay
upon conclusion of the appeal and allow Plaintiff to enforce the Court’s
judgment after bench trial entered on September 12, 2022.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Macaria Beltran, Trustee of the MCB Trust,
(Plaintiff) filed this motion on the grounds that on July 12, 2024, the Court
of Appeal for the Second Appellate District issued a Remittitur, following its
April 30, 2024, opinion, affirming the judgment entered in favor of Plaintiff and
against Defendant Patrick Graham (Defendant) for lockout and possession of
Plaintiff’s rental property. Plaintiff has not received a rental payment from
Defendant since December 2023 and possession of the property remains at issue,
which was an express condition of the stay pending appeal. Now that the appeal
has been decided, Plaintiff contends that she is entitled to enforce the
Court’s judgment because there remains no legal basis for any further stays on
the execution of the lockout and judgment.
 
No opposition has been filed by Defendant.
 
ANALYSIS
In this case, the Court, Judge Pfahler presiding, granted Defendant’s
request for stay under the applicable standard: “An appeal taken by the
defendant shall not automatically stay proceedings upon the judgment. Petition
for stay of the judgment pending appeal shall first be directed to the judge
before whom it was rendered. Stay of judgment shall be granted when the court
finds that the moving party will suffer extreme hardship in the absence of a
stay and that the nonmoving party will not be irreparably injured by its
issuance. If the stay is denied by the trial court, the defendant may forthwith
file a petition for an extraordinary writ with the appropriate appeals court.
If the trial or appellate court stays enforcement of the judgment, the court
may condition the stay on whatever conditions the court deems just, but in any
case it shall order the payment of the reasonable monthly rental value to the
court monthly in advance as rent would otherwise become due as a condition of
issuing the stay of enforcement. ...” (CCP § 1176(a).)
 
The Court kept the stay in place prior to the appeal because
the degree of harm to the parties was unknown. Now, Plaintiff argues that she
is being irreparably harmed by the stay on the lockout. Plaintiff argues that
the balance of equities contemplated by CCP § 1176(a) falls in favor of
Plaintiff because Plaintiff has suffered significant financial consequences due
to Defendant’s failure to pay the water bill on the property. Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant’s continued presence at the property during the stay has
exacerbated Plaintiff’s financial hardships and has exposed her to potential
legal repercussions.
 
Now that the appeal has been decided in Plaintiff’s favor,
there does not appear to be any reason to keep the stay in place, nor has
Defendant submitted any opposition arguing that it should be kept in place. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to terminate the stay is
granted. Plaintiff may enforce her judgment against Defendant.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.