 Case Number:  23CHCV02733    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  F43 George Matar
vs. Bimmerhead Werx LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Bimmerhead Werx LLC and Jessie Rueckel
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff George Matar
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are requesting
that the Court enter an order setting aside or vacating the default and default
judgment entered against them.
 
RULING: Motion
is denied without prejudice.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On September 11,
2023, Plaintiff George Matar (Plaintiff) filed this breach of contract case
against Defendants Bimmerhead Werx LLC and Jessie Rueckel (Defendants).
 
On October 9,
2023, Plaintiff filed proof of personal service indicating that Defendants were
served via substituted service at 3148 Orange Ave., La Crescenta-Montrose, CA
91214. A Jane Doe accepted the service at Rueckel’s address. Defendant Jessie
Rueckel is also the registered agent for service of process for Defendant
Bimmerhead Werx LLC, so the Defendants were both served via substituted service
at Rueckel’s address. The proofs of substituted service also include proofs of
service by mail, as well as declarations of reasonable diligence indicating the
other attempts at personal service. Thereafter, default judgment was entered
against Defendants on July 9, 2024.
 
Defendants
argues in their motion to set aside default, filed on July 12, 2024, that they
did not receive actual notice of the lawsuit and did not learn of the lawsuit
until default had been entered. Defendants also argue that the entry of default
and default judgment was the product of surprise. Next, they argue that the
service of summons was not statutorily compliant. Finally, Defendants argue
that the default judgment is void because Defendant Bimmerhead Werx was not
properly named in the complaint.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that Defendant Rueckel has failed to show that the
judgment was entered by surprise. Next, Plaintiff argues that Defendants have
failed to demonstrate that the default and default judgment was caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Plaintiff also argues
that Defendants’ motion is not accompanied by an answer or other responsive
pleading as required by CCP § 473(b). Finally, Plaintiff argues that the
default judgment is not void because the proper Defendants have been properly
named, served by Code-compliant means, and apprised of the nature of the
claims.
 
In their reply,
Defendants argue that they have demonstrated that the judgment was taken
against them by surprise. Defendants also argue that it was unnecessary for
them to file an answer with their motion because the default was taken against
them by surprise. Finally, Defendants argue that they have demonstrated that
they default judgment was taken by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants
filed this motion pursuant to CCP §§ 473(b) and 473.5.
 
CCP § 473(b)
reads as follows:
The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.
 
CCP § 473.5
states as follows: 
(a)   When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years
after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered.
(b)   A
notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date
prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by
an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time
to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of
the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473, et
seq., should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
Both CCP §§ 473
and 473.5 require that a copy of a proposed answer or other responsive pleading
be filed with the motion to set aside default. Defendants have not included a
copy of a responsive pleading with their motion. Rather than including a
responsive pleading with their reply after Plaintiff pointed this out in his
opposition, Defendants instead argue that an answer is not necessary. The cases
that Defendants cite in support of this argument (In re Jafroodi (2023)
651 B.R. 13; Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. v. High Impact Design &
Entertainment (2009) 642 F.Supp.2d 1228) arise under federal procedural
law, and neither case mentions the CCP requirement of including a proposed
answer with a motion to set aside default. Furthermore, the text of CCP §§
473(b) and 473.5(b) make it clear that filing a proposed responsive pleading
with the motion to set aside default is required. CCP § 473(b) in particular
states that the application for relief shall be accompanied by a proposed
responsive pleading, “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”
 
Accordingly,
the Court will not reach a decision on the merits of Defendants’ motion.
Defendants’ motion is denied without prejudice on a procedural basis due to
Defendants’ failure to file a proposed responsive pleading with their motion to
set aside default.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion to set aside and vacate entry of default and default judgment is denied
without prejudice.
 
Moving party to
give notice.