 Case Number:  22STCV25607    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25607




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
(2)  
  Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Bonnie Fergurson, James
  Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Thomas Robert Brown and Erin Michelle Brown



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Thomas Robert Brown and Erin Michelle
Brown (“Plaintiffs”) filed a verified complaint against Defendants Bonnie
Fergurson, James Furgurson, Katherine Furgurson, and Does 1 to 100 in a wrongful
death and survival action based on negligence and premises liability.
Plaintiffs are the parents of Decedent Christopher Ryan Brown (“Decedent”) who
is alleged to have drowned during a pool party on Defendants’ property. 
 
On April 9, 2024, the Court granted Defendants Bonnie Fergurson, James
Furgurson, and Katherine Furgurson’s (“Defendants”) motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (Min. Order, 4/9/24.)
 
The Court granted Plaintiffs leave to amend within 20 days. 
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)
asserting a single cause of action for wrongful death/negligence. 
 
Defendants have filed a demurrer to the FAC, arguing it is a “sham
pleading” and fails to state facts to constitute a cause of action. Defendants
also separately move to strike various portions of the FAC on the same grounds.
Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The primary function of a pleading is to give the other
party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a
pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th
203, 240.) “A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a
complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the
function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and
for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint
are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) 
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No
other extrinsic evidence can be considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v.
Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts
asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States
Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other
grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d
287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) 
 
A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the
complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar
recovery.  (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 963, 971-72.)  
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v.
YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
Social
Host Immunity
 
In
1978 the Legislature changed the nature of tort liability for those who provide
alcoholic beverages in a social setting by granting the furnishers of alcoholic
beverages “sweeping civil immunity” and imposing “sole and exclusive liability
upon the consumer of alcoholic beverages” for any injury resulting from the
consumer's intoxication.  (Allen v. Liberman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
46, 53–54.)  It did so by adding (c) to section 1714, which provides:
“Except as provided in subdivision (d), no social host who furnishes
alcoholic beverages to any person may be held legally accountable for damages
suffered by that person, or for injury to the person or property of, or death
of, any third person, resulting from the consumption of those beverages.” 
(Civil Code §¿1714(c).) 
 
“[S]ocial
host immunity has been interpreted to apply to the failure to supervise
individuals who drink alcohol at social events. Thus, ‘to the extent
plaintiff's theory of liability rests on defendants' failure to supervise their
guests to whom they had furnished alcohol, defendants are shielded by immunity.
[Citation.]’ (Biles v. Richter (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 325, 331.) If the ‘failure
to supervise’ theory of liability was enough to circumvent the social host
immunity statutes, the immunity would be ‘seriously eroded’ because ‘the duty
of supervision is premised upon the need to look after those whose coordination
and judgment have been adversely affected by the consumption of alcohol. If
allowed, the duty would appear to exist in many if not most cases where alcohol
is furnished by social hosts.’ [Citations.]” (Allen, supra, 227
Cal.App.4th at 55.) 
 
Sham
Pleading Doctrine
 
A
court has authority to strike sham
pleadings.  (Ricard v. Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel LeVine
& Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 157, 162.)  “Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v.
Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)  However, “[t]he sham pleading
doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting
erroneous allegations … or to prevent correction of ambiguous facts....
Instead, it is intended to enable courts to prevent an abuse of process.” 
(Id. at 426 (internal citations and quotations omitted).)  Further,
the sham pleading
doctrine is not intended to prevent correction of bona fide mistaken
allegations or to prevent correction of ambiguities.  (Larson v. UHS of
Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 344.)  The doctrine
only applies where prior allegations of fact are “destructive” of any of the
causes of action alleged in the subsequently filed pleading.  (Karp v.
Dunn (1964) 229 Cal.App.2d 186, 190.)  The sham pleading
doctrine “is an exception to the general rule of pleading that prior complaints
are superseded by subsequent ones. Only where an extreme situation is presented
should the exception be applied.”  (Id. at 191.) 
 
The sham pleading doctrine “ ‘is intended to prevent sham pleadings
omitting an incurable defect in the case. However, “[r]ules of pleading are
conveniences to promote justice and not to impede or warp it. We do not
question the rule that all allegations of fact in a verified complaint, which
are subsequently omitted or contradicted, are still binding on the complainant.
The rule is valid and useful, but it does not exist in a vacuum and cannot be
mechanically applied. It is a good rule to defeat abuses of the privilege to
amend and to discourage sham and untruthful pleadings. It is not a rule,
however, which is intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting
erroneous allegations of generic terms which may have legal implications but
which are also loosely used by laymen or to prevent the correction of ambiguous
statements of fact.”’ [Citation.]” (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 946.) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that
“[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at
least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and
serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
The Declaration of Mary R. Fersch, counsel for Defendants, states the
following: “On May 24, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Brett Bitzer and I had a
scheduled telephone call during which we discussed the substantive issues to be
addressed in Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  Unfortunately, Plaintiffs’ counsel and I did
not reach an agreement resolving Defendants’ objections to Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint.” (Fersch Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, the meet and confer
requirement is met.  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants Defendants’ requests for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s
verified complaint, the April 9, 2024 minute order, the FAC, and April 9, 2024
hearing transcript. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
In response to the Court’s April 9, 2024 ruling, Plaintiffs allege and
“concede that on April 17, 2021, Defendants were immune from liability pursuant
to Civil Code section 1714(b)-(c) and the social host immunity doctrine, based
on any theory of liability relating to Decedent CHRISTOPHER RYAN BROWN’S
consumption of alcohol.” (FAC ¶ 17.) They also attach Decedent’s death
certificate which provides that the cause of death was drowning due to acute
alcohol intoxication. (FAC ¶ 31, Exh. B.)[1] 
 
However, they allege in the FAC that under Berman v. Bromberg
(1997) 56 Cal. App. 4th 936, 946-948, they are entitled to allege different and
independent theories of liability based on the same general facts. (FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
Accordingly, the FAC alleges that Defendants’ pool had physical
defects that made it dangerous and caused Decedent to drown, specifically: “an
inadequate slope radius between the side of the pool and the pool floor; (2)
had slippery dark blue tile; and (3) had inadequate lighting.” (FAC ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendants negligently allowed a chlorine dispenser in the
pool and that surveillance footage shows that Decedent started to drown 30
seconds after his face contacted the dispenser. As a result, Plaintiffs allege
that “the toxic chlorine overwhelmed Decedent” and contributed to his drowning.
(FAC ¶ 88.)
 
Here, the FAC omits references in the original verified complaint that
Defendants supplied alcohol to the party guests, contributed to the chaotic
environment and allowed impaired guests to use the pool. (See, e.g., Complaint
¶¶ 32-34.) Significantly, the FAC omits the allegations in the complaint
regarding causation. (See, e.g., Complaint at ¶ 91 [“But for Decedent being
allowed access to a poorly lit unsupervised swimming pool while impaired, he
would have survived. His drowning was a substantial factor in causing his
death.”]; ¶ 109 [“But for Decedent being encouraged and permitted to use the
poorly lit Subject Pool in the evening while dangerously intoxicated he would
have survived. His drowning was a substantial factor in causing his death.”) The
FAC fails to show the reason for these omissions. (FAC ¶ 17.) Similarly, while
Plaintiffs assert that the new allegations were discovered after this case was
filed and discovery commenced,[2]
they fail to provide reasons in opposition for omitting the allegations. (Opp.,
15.)
 
Plaintiff cites Berman v. Bromberg in the FAC and opposition to
support the alternative liability theories. However, Berman did not
involve a statutory immunity question like here. Instead, Berman involved
an amended pleading based on the same general facts but with different legal
theories. (Berman, supra, 56 Cal.App.4th at 946.) In
reasoning that the amended complaint was not a sham pleading, the court in Berman
observed that the prior allegations “even if true and even if read into the
third amended complaint, are immaterial to the legal theories set out in the
third amended complaint. Thus, the prior allegations do not undermine or
destroy the causes of action in the third amended complaint.” (Id. at
946-47.) 
 
Here, unlike in Berman, the allegations from the original verified
complaint undermine the FAC. Moreover, Plaintiffs do not explain how the social
host immunity does not apply here, especially when taking into account
Plaintiffs’ prior allegations in their verified complaint. The FAC acknowledges
that the death certificate, “signed under penalty of perjury by Dr. Othon Mena,
provides that the cause of death was drowning due to acute alcohol intoxication.”
(FAC ¶ 31.) While the FAC disputes this conclusion, and asserts that other
purportedly negligent acts contributed to Decedent’s death, Plaintiffs do not
provide authority to show that the allegations involving the chlorine
dispenser, pool radius, and lighting are enough to provide an exception to the
“sweeping civil immunity” in section 1714(c).[3] (Allen,
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 53; see also Biles, supra, 206
Cal.App.3d at 330 [“So read, plaintiff's complaint fairly ascribes the cause of
his injuries at least in part to alcoholic beverages furnished by
defendants. To that extent, defendants are shielded by social host immunity.”
[emphasis added].]) Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer without leave
to amend. Because the demurrer is sustained, the Court denies the motion to
strike as moot. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer
for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action is
SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. 
 
Defendants’ motion to strike
is denied as moot. 
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


