 Case Number:  22STCV21097    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21097




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Setting Aside Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint. The Final Status Conference was set for December 13, 2023
and trial was set for December 27, 2023. No appearances were made on either
date.
 
            On June 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside
the dismissal.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a default
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.  This application must be filed
no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought,
and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].” (Id.)

 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, no appearances were made by
Plaintiff’s counsel at the December 13, 2023 Final Status Conference or
December 27, 2023 trial date, and the case was dismissed. Counsel for Plaintiff
declares: “for reasons that can only be explained by mistake, error, or excusable
neglect, my office never calendared any future dates in this matter and simply
continued the UM process with Plaintiff’s insurance company.” (Goldsman Decl. ¶
2.) “It is solely due to my mistake, inadvertence, or otherwise that I did not
recognize that the December hearing dates were not added to the active calendar
due to inadvertent error and get it remedied expeditiously.” (Goldsman Decl. ¶
6.)
 
Although counsel provides very few
details, the Court nevertheless concludes that a calendaring error caused the
failure to appear at trial and therefore grants the motion.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the
dismissal. The matter is set for an Order to Show Cause Re Dismissal and/or
Monetary Sanctions up to $1000 for Failure to Serve for October 2, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 