 Case Number:  22STCV21519    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21519




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for New Trial 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Brandee Vasquez and the Estate
  of Jonathyn Bradford




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Southern California Edison Company 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Brandee Vasquez and the Estate of Jonathyn
Bradford, through successor in interest Brandee Vasquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed
the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Southern
California Edison Co. and Does 1 to 20, asserting a wrongful death and survival
action based on negligence surrounding the death of Decedent Jonathyn Bradford
(“Decedent”). The third and final cause of action asserted is negligent
infliction of emotional distress brought solely by Brandee Vasquez.  
 
Plaintiffs
allege that on July 7, 2020, Decedent was swimming in Shaver Lake, when he was
suddenly pulled underwater and ultimately drowned. (FAC ¶ 4.) Brandee Vasquez
witnessed Decedent struggling during the incident. (Id. ¶ 50.) 
 
Defendant Southern California Edison Company (“Defendant”) moved for
summary judgment/adjudication against Plaintiffs’ action, arguing the following
issues: (1) Defendant did not owe a duty to Decedent since it does not own,
possess, or control the navigable waters of Shaver Lake; (2) Plaintiffs’ claims
are barred by the doctrine of recreational immunity under Civil Code section
846; (3) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the doctrine of primary assumption of
the risk; and (4) the punitive damages claim fails.
 
            On May 1, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant motion for summary judgment based on the doctrine of primary
assumption of the risk. 
 
            On May 28, 2024, the Court entered
judgment for Defendant. On May 30, 2024, Defendant mailed notice of the entry
of judgment to Plaintiffs. 
 
            On June 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Notice of Intention to Move for New Trial. 
 
            On June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion for new trial to set aside the May 28, 2024 order. Defendant
opposes and Plaintiffs reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A court has the power to vacate a decision in whole or in
part and grant a new trial if the court determines either of the following
grounds: (1) irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse
party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party
was prevented from having a fair trial; (2) misconduct of the jury; (3)
accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against;
(4) newly discovered evidence; (5) excessive or inadequate damage; (6) insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or
other decision is against law; and (7) error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by the party making the application. (Code Civ. Proc. § 657.) 
 
A motion for new trial is a creature of
statute; accordingly, if the trial court grants such relief without conforming
to the statutory procedures, the order will be void as an excess of
jurisdiction. (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1194, 1198.) A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and
659.  A notice of intention to move for new trial must be filed within 15
days following mailing service of the judgment, or within 180 days after the entry
of judgment, whichever is earliest. (Code Civ. Proc. § 659(a).) 
 
When the court grants a new trial pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 657, it must state the ground(s) for granting the new
trial and its reasons for granting the new trial upon each ground stated. (Estes
v. Eaton Corporation (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 636, 642.) “‘[S]trict
compliance’ with section 657 is required. (Oakland Raiders v. National
Football League (2007) 41 Cal.4th 624, 634.) The court’s statement of
reasons ‘should be specific enough to facilitate appellate review and avoid any
need for the appellate court to rely on inference or speculation.’ (Ibid.)” (Id.)
 
“A new trial is a re-examination of an
issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or
referee.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 656.) Case law makes clear that a motion for a new
trial is appropriate in a wide variety of situations where an “issue of fact or
law” has been decided, including demurrers. (Carney v. Simmonds (1957)
49 Cal.2d 84, 89.) Specifically, “[a] motion for a new trial is appropriate
following an order granting summary judgment.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 858.) 
            
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Denial of Continuance
 
First, Plaintiffs argue that the
Court granted summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiffs did not present
evidence that Defendant’s conduct caused Decedent’s death. They contend that
Defendant did not move for summary judgment based on “specific causation
grounds.” (Motion, 1.) They assert the Court raised this issue in its tentative
order and denied Plaintiffs’ request for a continuance to respond to the issue.
Because the request for a continuance was denied, Plaintiffs argue they were
denied due process, and this constituted an irregularity in the proceedings and
a surprise. Plaintiffs distinguish between “[s]pecific causation (whether the
defendant’s conduct caused plaintiff’s injury) and assumption of risk causation
(whether defendant’s conduct increased the risk of the activity).” (Motion 7.) Plaintiffs
argue that the Court’s ruling was based on specific causation, which was not an
issue raised in the motion. 
 
Plaintiffs are incorrect. The Court
found that Defendant “met its initial burden to show that the primary
assumption of the risk doctrine applies.” (Minute Order Dated May 1, 2024 at p.
8.) Under well-settled principles governing summary judgment motions, the
burden shifts to Plaintiffs to establish a triable issue of fact, here, as to
the existence of a duty. (See id. at pp. 3, 5.) Because Plaintiffs appeared to
argue that Defendant breached a duty not to unreasonably increase the risks of
injury to the decedent beyond those inherent in the activity (a theory not
appearing in the FAC nor apparently in the discovery responses), the Court
pressed Plaintiffs at the hearing to articulate what duty was actually at issue
for purposes of the assumption of the risk doctrine in this case. Based on the
evidence and argument presented, the Court concluded that Plaintiffs did not
claim or set forth evidence “that Defendant’s conduct increased the inherent
risk of swimming in an outdoor lake.” (Minute Order at p. 8.)
 
B.   
Premature Burden Shifting 
 
Second, Plaintiffs argue that the
Court prematurely shifted the burden to Plaintiffs to show evidence that
Defendant’s conduct increased the inherent risks of swimming. They correctly
note that Defendant had the initial burden to show it did not increase the
inherent risk.
 
A trial court may grant a new trial
due to an “error in law” (under section 657, subd. 7) if its original ruling,
as a matter of law, is erroneous. (Collins v. Sutter Memorial Hospital
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1, 17-18.) “A trial court has no discretion to grant a
new trial on the basis of error in law unless its original ruling was erroneous
as a matter of law.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
138, 147.) 
 
However, as the Court concluded in
its order, Defendant presented sufficient evidence to meet its initial burden. During
oral argument, Defendant addressed the burden shifting issue by arguing: 
 
“MR. CAPLAN: Mr. Khan stated that SCE did not shift the
burden. In fact, I think we did. We provide evidence showing that there were no
hydroelectric facilities in the area where this happened, Eastwood Cove. We
also pointed that there are thousands of people a year who visit this cove
without issue. We point out that people – when plaintiff got there, there were
plenty of people playing in the water.”
(Khan Decl., Exh. D, Hearing Transcript, 24:17-24.) 
 
Additionally, as Defendant argues
in opposition, it produced evidence that the cove where the incident occurred “did
not contain strong currents, dangerous debris, unusually frigid temperatures,
or other conditions that would increase the drowning risk above those that
generally might generally be expected in open bodies of water.  (UMF 64-65.) SCE also presented evidence that
there were no hydroelectric facilities in or around Eastwood Cove, and, despite
thousands of visitors a year, there had never before been a fatal drowning at
Eastwood Cove.  (UMF 62-63, 66).” (Opp.,
7.)[1]
These facts were also cited in the Court’s order prior to finding that
Defendant met its initial burden. (Minute Order at p. 6.) 
 
Therefore,
Plaintiffs fail to show that the Court did not first consider Defendant’s
evidence to show the absence of a triable issue of fact.             
 
C.   
Plaintiff’s Evidence Created Triable Issue of
Fact
 
Third, Plaintiffs argue that they
produced facts that Defendant’s operations affected the inherent risk of
swimming, and that construing all reasonable inferences in favor of Plaintiffs
should have created a triable issue of fact. 
 
However, to support this, Plaintiff
produces the same arguments that were rejected in the original motion, and
again relies on broad claims of disputed facts that are not supported by the
evidence cited. (See., e.g., Plaintiff’s Resp. to UMF 33.) The evidence that
Plaintiff cites in this motion (pages 11 to 13), again does not point to
conduct by Defendant that made the water in Shaver Lake “any colder such that
it increased the risks inherent in swimming in an outdoor lake.” (Min. Order at
p. 9.) Therefore, construing the evidence previously presented and reasonable
inferences in the light favorable to Plaintiffs, the Court cannot conclude that
a triable issue of fact exists. 
 
D.   
Newly Discovered Expert Evidence
 
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that newly
discovered expert evidence shows how Defendant’s operations caused Shaver Lake
to have more drastic changes in water conditions than in a natural body of
water. 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section
657, subdivision 4, authorizes the grant of a new trial when the moving party
has discovered new, material evidence which it could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at trial. The moving party must
establish (1) the evidence is newly discovered; (2) he or she exercised
reasonable diligence in discovering and producing it; and (3) it is material to
the moving party's case.” (Plancarte v. Guardsmark (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 640, 646.) 
 
“Although there is no definitive
California case authority on this issue, at least one appellate court has
articulated the general principle that ‘newly discovered evidence’ within the
meaning of section 657, subdivision (4) must be evidence that was in existence
at the time of the trial or hearing on the dispositive motion: ‘Normally, to
support a motion for a new trial on this ground, the court must determine if
the evidence was in existence at the time of the trial and could not have been
discovered with reasonable diligence.’ [Citation.]” (Aron v. WIB Holdings
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1069, 1079.) 
 
“[A] party claiming the discovery
of new evidence following summary judgment is held to a less demanding standard
of reasonable diligence than a party asserting this claim after trial.” (Doe
v. United Air Lines, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1500, 1509 [discussing Scott
v. Farrar (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 462, which reversed a new trial denial
based on new witness testimony, “reasoning that the testimony was unknown to
the moving party prior to the deposition, and the date of the deposition had
been set shortly after the inception of the action in the regular course of
discovery, which the moving party had pursued with reasonable diligence.”].) Nevertheless,
the moving party must provide a “satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015)
240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.)
 
“In the context of a motion for a
new trial, ‘material’ means likely to produce a different result.” (Wood v.
Jamison (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 156, 161.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs point to new declarations
from Dr. Alan Steinman and Dr. Goll. In relevant part, Dr. Goll declares: 
 
“[Shaver Lake reservoir] is subject
to significant and rapid fluctuations in water levels and temperature due to
operations of the powerplant. The variable and rapid intentional flows cause
currents that disturb bottom sediments, leading to excessive turbid/visibility
conditions. Due to the rapidly delivered source water from elevations of 7,000
feet asl and higher, the water in Shaver Lake is subject to rapid temperature
fluctuations.” (Goll Decl. ¶ 5.) “A review of the US Geological Survey (USGS)
water storage gage at the Shaver Lake Dam (USGS Gage 112395006) reveals
significant changes in water surface elevations on an annual basis,
specifically during the snow melt, from May into July. . . . A 30-foot increase
in water surface elevation in the period of less than 2 months is not a natural
process for a lake unless it is highly managed.” (Goll Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Dr. Goll also declares: “The Shaver
Lake Reservoir and its operation create opportunities for turbid, cold, and
varying, unusual and unpredictable currents. 
The results of the human-made and unnatural nature of the Shaver Lake
Reservoir have a high probability to cause excessive turbid conditions,
fluctuations in water temperature, and unpredictable currents in Shaver Lake
(including Eastwood Cove).” (Goll Decl. ¶ 8.) “It is noted that the lake was
lowered by 30 feet, in 2020, and the reduced depth and volume of water would be
more susceptible to ‘stirring up’ the lake sediment. Especially when there were
simultaneous inflows and outflows from the reservoir, this would induce
currents to distribute suspended sediment.” (Id.) 
 
Additionally, Dr. Goll opines that “34%
of the Shaver Lake Reservoir volume up to July 7, 2020, the date of the
drowning, contained meltwater that had all been delivered from these higher elevations
in less than two months. This added volume had a significant impact lowering
the water temperature to dangerous levels. And, as the water in a reservoir the
size of Shave Lake would not have complete mixing, there would be pockets of
water that are significantly colder than surrounding waters.” (Goll Decl. ¶ 9.)

 
Noting the less demanding standard
for new evidence following summary judgment, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
showed reasonable diligence in providing the declaration following the Court’s
order.[2]
The Court also finds that the new Goll declaration creates a triable issue of
fact since it links Defendant’s management of the reservoir with varying cold
pockets and currents. The declaration also provides evidence that Defendant’s
actions affected the turbidity of the water to a degree not found in a typical
lake, which Plaintiffs argue delayed Decedent’s rescue. Therefore, construing
this evidence and the reasonable inferences in the light favorable to
Plaintiffs, the Court finds a triable issue of fact. 
 
Because a triable issue of fact
exists, the motion for new trial is granted. In opposition, Defendant requests
the Court rule on its alternative issues for summary judgment/adjudication. The
Court declines to address those issues at this time but will set this matter
for a future hearing.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion for new trial. 
 
The Hearing on Motion for Summary Judgment, filed by Defendant Southern
California Edison Company is set for September 26, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in
Department 32 at the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


