 Case Number:  24STCV03885    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Vanessa Burgueno,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV03885




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] Ruling RE:
 




Premium Electronic
  Solutions, Inc., et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
  DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT




 
Premium Electronic
  Solutions, Inc.,


 
 
 
Cross-Complainant


 


 




 
vs.


 


 


 




Vanessa Burgueno
  and ROES 1 through 20, inclusive


 
 
 
Cross-Defendants.
 


 


 



Hearing Date: August
16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s
First Cause of Action and Fourth Cause of Action
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant
Vanessa Burgueno
Responding Party: Cross-Complainant
Premium Solutions, Inc.
 
If the parties wish
to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to
opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the day of the
hearing.¿  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Vanessa
Burgueno filed this action against Defendants Premium Electric Solution, Inc., and
Valentin Garcia. Plaintiff was a service manager who worked for Premium
Electric Solution. She claims she was terminated following her complaints about
Labor Code violations. Plaintiff also alleges other wage and hour violations.  
 
On June 5, 2024, Premium
Electric Solution filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed a demurrer on
July 3, 2024.
 
Premium Electric Solution filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint on
August 13, 2024.
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 472 provides that “[a] party may amend its
pleading once without leave of the court at any time before the answer,
demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike
is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended
pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to
the demurrer or motion to strike.” 
 
Premium Electric
Solution had until August 5, 2024, to file any
opposition or amended pleading. It filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint on August
13, 2024. Although untimely, the Court will deem the FACC filed as of today.
Cross-Defendant has 30 days to respond.
 
The demurrer is taken off calendar.


 