  Case Number:  22STCV32334    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Bosley Properties, LLC’s Motion to Compel Defendant William J. Beverly to
Comply with CCP § 2031.280(a) with Regards to His Production of Documents
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Bosley Properties, LLC moves to compel defendant William J. Beverly to comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280 as to the documents he produced
in response to requests for production Nos. 7-9, 14-15, 17-24, 37, 38, 45,
47-51, 54, 55, 59, 73, and 74.  Section
2031.280(a) provides, “Any documents or category of documents produced in
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be
identified with the specific request number to which the documents respond.”  
Beverly
produced documents on a flash drive containing “(1) documents Bates Nos.
WJB000001-WJB000632; and (2) a folder entitled ‘Beverly Emails with Partners,
etc.’ which consisted of 4,593 pages of documents contained in nine (9)
separate sub-folders.”  (Brown Decl., ¶
5.)  Beverly’s responses properly
identified some of the documents with the specific request number to which they
respond.  For example, to No. 1, he
responded, “[T]his Responding Party states that he has conducted a reasonably
diligent search of his records and files and submits the documents Bates Stamp
numbered WJB000231 to WJB000347 as responsive to this request.”  (Brown Decl., Ex. 2, p. 3.)  
Beverly
did not properly identify the documents responsive to the subject
requests.  For example, No. 22 demanded,
“All DOCUMENTS that REFER OR RELATE to COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and TANNER
from January 1, 2022 to the present, that evidence, reference or discuss the
removal of BOB BOSLEY and/or BURGLUND as a MANAGING GENERAL PARTNER of MDA.”  (Brown Decl., Ex. 1, p. 9.)  Initially, Beverly responded, “[T]his
Responding Party states that he has conducted a reasonably diligent search of
his records and files and has located and submits the emails contained on the
Flash Drive submitted concurrently with this response as partially responsive
to this request.”  (Id., Ex. 2, p.
12.)  
Later,
Beverly served a supplemental response stating, “All emails exchanged between
the Responding Party and Jim Tanner are set forth on the Flash Drive in the
folders identified as Centeno.2022, Centeno.2023, Chuck Giovino, Kim Miyake,
Pamela Love, Lee Ouye, and Ron Hegge.  I
am not aware of any emails specifically addressing the subject of this Request,
and have no personal knowledge as to whether such exists or ever existed.  The language of the prior response was due to
the overly broad nature of the Request which seeks all Documents which may ‘evidence’
the main object of the Request.  This
Answering Party suggests that the documents identified may contain information
or documents, the contents of which could be considered by the requesting party
to be covered by this Request in a remote way based upon a most expansive
interpretation.  Producing Party believes
that this is unlikely, however, in the interest of full disclosure, and in an
attempt to thoroughly comply with the request, such documents were included and
referenced as part of the response.  In
short, no documents have been withheld: on the contrary, some documents may be
superfluous.”  (Brown Decl., Ex. 6, p.
14.)  
Producing
more documents than Beverly believed responded to the request serves an
interest in full disclosure.  Nothing
prevents a party from producing a broader variety of documents than those
demanded by specific requests for production. 
(See CCP § 2016.090(a)(1)(B) [procedure for initial disclosure of all
documents “that the disclosing party has in its possession, custody, or control
and may use to support its claims or defenses, or that is relevant to the
subject matter of the action”].)  But
doing so is not what the Civil Discovery Act requires for responding to
requests for production under section 2031.010, et seq.  The responding party must state that the
request for production “will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that
all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.”  (CCP §
2031.220.)  When producing the documents,
they “shall be identified with the specific request number to which the
documents respond.”  (CCP § 2031.280(a).)  
Request
No. 22 asked for communications between Beverly and Tanner about a specific
subject.  It was not proper to produce every
email between Beverly and Tanner regardless of the subject.  If Beverly is “not aware of any emails
specifically addressing the subject of this Request, and ha[s] no personal
knowledge as to whether such exists or ever existed,” the proper response was
“[a] representation of inability to comply with the particular demand” under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. 
For example, that is how Beverly responded to request No. 73.  (Brown Decl., Ex. 6, p. 27.)  If, on the other hand, Beverly possesses
emails about the subject requested, he must produce them and label them as given
in response to request No. 22 (and any other request Nos. to which they respond).  
The
verified statements of compliance themselves need not identify the specific
documents produced in response.  (Pollock
v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1358 (Pollock)
[“There is no requirement that a response identify a document with the specific
request to which the document applies”].) 
Instead, the documents produced “shall be identified with the specific
request number to which [they] respond.” 
(CCP § 2031.280(a).)  Doing so is
more efficient because often the same documents will respond to multiple requests
for production.  Though Bates numbering
is not required (Pollock, supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1358), that is a
common and effective way to identify documents. 
A responding party may comply by Bates stamping the documents and “providing
a … table that listed by Bates number which documents applied to which requests.”  (Id. at p. 1359.)  
Here,
one method of complying would be: (1) Bates numbering the 4,953 pages of
emails, (2) categorizing those pages into separate email threads identified by
subject line and ranges of Bates numbers (e.g., subject “Removing managers”,
pages 00800-00805), and (3) for each email thread, specifying that it responds
to request Nos. X, Y, and Z.
Sanctions
            Bosley Properties,
LLC moves for monetary sanctions against Beverly and his counsel.  “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction
… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2031.320(b).)  
Beverly
acted with substantial justification.  Beverly
made reasonable arguments supporting the position that he complied with Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.280(a).  There
is no single correct way to comply.  And
Beverly acted in good faith in attempting to disclose all documents relevant to
this action.  
Disposition
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Bosley Properties, LLC’s motion to compel defendant William J. Beverly to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280(a) in his production of
documents is granted.  Defendant
Beverly is ordered to identify the documents produced by the specific
request number(s) to which they respond, as described above, within 30 days.