 Case Number:  24STCV08174    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nicholas harris

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
elevance health inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV08174




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to stay
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Elevance Health Inc.,
The Elevance Health Companies, Inc., and Blue Cross of California
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Nicholas Harris
Motion to Stay 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Elevance Health Inc., The Elevance Health Companies, Inc.,
and Blue Cross of California (“Defendants”) move the court for an order staying
this action, filed by plaintiff Nicholas Harris (“Plaintiff”), until the court
rules on Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.  
“If an application has been made to a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, for an order to arbitrate a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State and such application is undetermined, the court in which such action or
proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application for an order to
arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy is ordered,
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  Section 1281.4 “is clear and unambiguous: it
requires that the trial court stay an action pending before it while an
application to arbitrate the subject matter of the action is pending in a court
of competent jurisdiction.”  (Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 188, 192.) 
Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate this action
on September 16, 2024.  (Def. Not. of
Mot. to Compel Arb., p. 1:2-9.)  The
court has not ruled on Defendants’ motion, which is set for hearing on May 12,
2025.  The court therefore grants
Defendants’ request that the court stay this action until their motion to
compel arbitration is determined.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.4; Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., supra, 79
Cal.App.4th at p. 192.) 
The court notes that Plaintiff has filed a limited opposition to this
motion, requesting that the court permit limited discovery regarding the
existence and enforceability of the arbitration agreement that is the basis of
Defendants’ motion.  The court, however,
finds that this request would be more appropriately addressed in connection
with a noticed motion in order to provide Defendants with sufficient time to
oppose or respond to that request.  The
court therefore denies Plaintiff’s request for an order allowing him to conduct
limited arbitration-related discovery, without prejudice to Plaintiff’s filing
a noticed motion requesting that relief. 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Elevance
Health Inc., The Elevance Health Companies, Inc., and Blue Cross of
California’s motion to stay. 
            The court orders that this action is
stayed until defendants Elevance Health Inc., The Elevance Health Companies,
Inc., and Blue Cross of California’s motion to compel arbitration is determined.

 
 
 
            The court orders defendants Elevance
Health Inc., The Elevance Health Companies, Inc., and Blue Cross of California to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court