 Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   14, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel deposition of THIRD-PARTY
  cynthia cooks and for monetary sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Aids Healthcare
Foundation         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Annette Turner
Motion to Compel Deposition of Third-Party Cynthia Cooks and for
Monetary Sanctions
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court sustains defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s evidentiary objection to the “Supplemental
Declaration of Annette Harings and Surreply of Plaintiff Annette Turner, in re:
(1) Opposition to Defendant Aids Healthcare Foundation’s Motion to Compel
Deposition Subpoena of Cynthia Cooks; and, (2) Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary
Sanctions in the Amount of $9,450 Against AHF and/or its Attorneys of Records”
because (1) Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) does not
authorize the filing of surreply papers, and (2) plaintiff Annette Turner did
not file this declaration at least nine court days before the hearing on this
motion.  The court therefore has not
considered the supplemental declaration.
DISCUSSION
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (“Defendant”) moves the court for
an order (1) compelling nonparty deponent Cynthia Cooks (“Cooks”) (i) to appear
for and testify at a deposition to be taken by counsel for Defendant, and (ii)
to produce the documents identified in the Deposition Subpoena for Personal
Appearance and Production of Documents and Things, and (2) awarding monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant and against Cooks in the amount of $3,637.50.
The court grants Defendant’s motion (1) to compel Cooks to appear for
and testify at a deposition to be taken by counsel for Defendant, and (2) to
compel Cooks to produce documents responsive to Requests for Production of
Documents, numbers 1-8 that are in Cooks’s possession, custody, or control.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)  The court finds that the information sought is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action and reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence because Plaintiff Annette
Turner (“Plaintiff”) has claimed damages relating to lost or stolen watches as
a result of Defendant’s alleged conduct. 
(Stern Decl., ¶ 2 [asserting that Plaintiff stated, in response to an
interrogatory, that her watches were stolen as a result of Defendant’s failure
to provide her with a deadbolt, all of which were gold watches, and that she
had previously stored them at her sister’s home]; Harings Decl., Ex. 2, p.
8:25-26 [claiming loss of two watches stolen by an unknown suspect].) 
The court denies Defendant’s motion to compel Cooks to produce
documents responsive to Requests for Production of Documents, number 9, because
that request is overbroad since it calls for documents that are neither
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action nor reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
The court notes that, in her opposition, Plaintiff asserts that (1) the
Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and
Things does not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, and (2)
Defendant failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.230,
subdivision (b), such that the subpoena is void and unenforceable.  The court disagrees.  
First, the court finds that the subpoena does not violate Code of
Civil Procedure section 1985.3 because, although document demand number 7
requests documents regarding insurance obtained for any watches belonging to
Plaintiff, it does not request personal records within the meaning of that
statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (a)(1) [defining personal records to include documents pertaining to a
consumer and “maintained by any ‘witness’”].) 

Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant
did not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.230, subdivision (b)
because (1) that statute requires the payment of a witness fee to accompany “a
deposition subpoena that does not require the personal attendance of a
custodian of records or other qualified person,” and (2) the Deposition
Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents and Things of
Cooks requires her appearance.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.230, subd. (b); Stern Decl., Ex. 3, PDF p. 30, ¶ 1 [ordering
Cooks to appear at deposition].) 
Moreover, to the extent that Plaintiff contends that Defendant did not
comply with subdivision (a) of section 2020.230, the court disagrees, because that
subdivision permits the payment of a witness fee “either at the time of
service of the deposition subpoena, or at the time the deponent attends for the
taking of testimony.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.230, subd. (a) [emphasis added].) 
The court finds that the circumstances presented would make the
imposition of sanctions against Cooks unjust in light of the mixed results of
the court’s ruling, and therefore denies Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.480,
subd. (j), 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant.
ORDER
            The court grants defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation’s motion to compel deposition of third-party deponent
Cynthia Cooks as follows. 
            The court orders Cynthia Cooks (1)
to appear for and testify at a deposition to be taken by counsel for defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation on _________________, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., to be
conducted on a videoconference platform to be selected by defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation, and (2) to produce documents responsive to defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s Requests for Production of Documents, numbers 1-8,
that are in the possession, custody, or control of Cynthia Cooks. 
            The court denies all requests for
monetary sanctions.
            The court orders defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 14, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court