  Case Number:  20STCV11677    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Nobia  Joyce v. Shawn M. Millner, et al. 1.      Plaintiff’s Motion  to Approve Recording of Lis Pendens/Defendant Shawn M. Millner-Todd’s Motion to  Expunge Lis Pendens; 2.      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s  Demurrer to Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint; and 3.      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’  Motion to Strike.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to approve recording of lis  pendens and DENIES Defendant Millner’s motion to expunge lis pendens. The Court  will not require Plaintiff to post a bond. The Court also declines to award  attorney’s fees and costs.  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, Third,  Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Eighteenth, and Nineteenth Causes of  Action in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint with leave to amend. The Court  OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth and Fifteenth Causes of Action. Defendants  Millner and Todd must file an amended cross-complaint within 20 days of the  Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike with leave to amend as to the following portions of the Second Amended  Cross-Complaint:                    1.      Paragraph 145. 2.      Paragraph 164. 3.      Prayer – Seventh Cause of Action – Paragraph 4. 4.       Prayer – Eighth Cause of Action –  Paragraph 4. 5.       Prayer – Fifteenth Cause of  Action – Paragraph 4.  The Court DENIES the motion to  strike in all other respects as moot.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a quiet title action. On March 20, 2020, plaintiff Nobia  Joyce (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shawn M. Millner, the  Shawn Marie Millner Revocable Trust (collectively, Millner), Laurence Todd  (Todd) (Millner and Todd may be collectively referred to as Defendants), and  Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for quiet title, partition,  declaratory relief, and ejectment and damages.  On November 29, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff, Stephen R. Golden, Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., and  Does 1 through 20. On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed the operative Second  Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC) against the same parties, alleging causes of  action for breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, breach of the  covenant of good faith of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement, fraud (No. 1),  breach of the August 2018 Co-signor agreement, breach of the covenant of good  faith breach [sic] of the August 2018 Co-tenant [sic] agreement,  fraud (No. 2), assault, battery, false imprisonment, negligent infliction of  emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional distress, slander of  title, fraud (No. 3), invasion of privacy, unjust enrichment, comparative  indemnity, apportionment of fault, breach of the May 2023 Settlement Agreement,  and breach of the covenant of good faith of the May 2023 Settlement Agreement.  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Approve Recording of Lis Pendens/Defendant Shawn M. Millner-Todd’s  Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens  PROCEDURAL  HISTORY – Motion to Approve Recording of Lis Pendens  On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff moved for the Court to approve the recording  of a lis pendens. On March 5, 2024, Millner opposed the motion. On March 13,  2024, Todd opposed the motion. On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff replied to both  oppositions. On March 28, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the motion,  requesting further briefing from the parties. (Minute Order (3/28/24).)[1] On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief. On April 15, 2024,  Defendants filed a supplemental brief.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Approve Recording  of Lis Pendens and Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens              “Immediately upon commencement of the action, the  plaintiff shall file a notice of the pendency of the action in the office of  the county recorder of each county in which any real property described in the  complaint is located.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.010, subd. (b).) “Immediately  upon filing the complaint, the plaintiff shall record a notice of the pendency  of the action in the office of the county recorder of each county in which any  real property described in the complaint is located.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  872.250, subd. (a).)              “Once  a notice of pending action has been expunged, the claimant may not record  another notice of pending action as to the affected property without leave of  the court in which the action is pending.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.36; see also  De Martini v. Superior Court (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1269, 1276 [holding  that Code Civ. Proc., § 405.36 applied even though the prior lis pendens was  expunged in a different action.])  REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE – Motion to Approve Recording of  Lis Pendens and Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens              The  Court GRANTS  Defendants’ request for judicial notice, filed February 15, 2024, as to  Exhibits B, D and E, but DENIES the request as to Exhibits A and C as they do  not indicate that they were actually filed with the Court. The Court GRANTS  Defendants’ request for judicial notice, filed April 15, 2024, as to Exhibits A  and B, but DENIES the request as to Exhibit C. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes judicial notice only as to the  existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does not take  judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  The Court notes that it takes judicial notice only of the fact that a tentative  ruling was issued by the Court. There was no evidence presented with the  request for judicial notice showing that the tentative ruling was adopted by  the Court.  PRELIMINARY  ISSUE – Motion to Approve  Recording of Lis Pendens and Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens              The  Court notes that Defendants’ supplemental brief was over 10 pages long but  contained no table of contents or table of authorities, which is required under  Rule 3.1113, subdivision (f). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (f).)  The Court will still consider Defendants’ supplemental brief, but admonishes  Defendants to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court  going forward.  DISCUSSION – Motion to Approve Recording of Lis Pendens and Motion  to Expunge Lis Pendens  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff seeks the Court’s approval per Code of Civil Procedure  section 405.36 for the lis pendens she previously recorded for this action and  later filed with the Court on May 7, 2020 (the Lis Pendens).[2] Plaintiff indicates that she was involved in a prior action with the Defendants  which involved a lis pendens that was later expunged. Upon commencing this  action, Plaintiff indicates she recorded and later filed the Lis Pendens.  Plaintiff seeks the Court’s approval because the Court of Appeal’s recent  decision in De Martini v. Superior Court provides that Code of Civil  Procedure section 405.36 applies even when the prior lis pendens was expunged  in a different action. Plaintiff indicates that she moved for the Court’s  approval soon after learning of the De Martini decision since there was  no prior case law requiring a party to seek leave of court to record a second  lis pendens when it was filed in a different case.  In opposition,[3] Defendants contend Plaintiff’s motion is an admission that Plaintiff did not  comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 405.36, and that Plaintiff admits  she failed to comply with the July 5, 2018 order in the earlier case of  KC067882 by failing to expunge the prior lis pendens. Defendants then contend  Plaintiff was not justified in filing a second lis pendens without leave just  because this is a different action, and that De Martini only clarified  Code of Civil Procedure section 405.36. Defendants also seek to expunge the Lis  Pendens.  In reply, Plaintiff contends the Lis Pendens should be approved to  protect Plaintiff’s interest in her house and to provide notice to the public  of the dispute over the underlying property. Plaintiff notes that although  Plaintiff’s prior counsel failed to expunge the prior lis pendens as previously  ordered, Plaintiff’s current counsel did expunge it after being retained.  Plaintiff further notes that the law requires plaintiffs to file a lis pendens  for quiet title and partition actions, and contends the fact that Plaintiff is  seeking the Court’s approval after a recent change in the law does not  invalidate the basis for seeking this relief.  In Plaintiff’s supplemental brief, Plaintiff provided a  declaration and a copy of Millner’s in-court statements made in the prior  action as evidence that Plaintiff is a 50% owner of the real property at issue  and has a right to live in it the rest of her life. Plaintiff contends the  evidence shows that she and Millner had an agreement to equally own the subject  property, that she made the $29,400 down payment to purchase the property, and  that she made various contributions to the furnishing and improvement of the  property. Plaintiff contends her name was not on the title to the property  because she wanted to first clear an IRS lien. Plaintiff contends that problems  later developed between her and Millner, wherein Millner kicked Plaintiff off  the property, leaving Plaintiff homeless for many years. Plaintiff further  contends the evidence satisfies the elements of claims for quiet title and  partition.  In Defendants’ supplemental brief, they contend, among other  things, that Plaintiff’s claim is not a real property claim, but instead focuses  on an alleged breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement and on Plaintiff  being denied her interest in the subject property. Defendants contend Plaintiff  has not established any breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement Agreement or that  she was homeless. Defendants also contend this matter was settled in May 2023,  wherein Plaintiff accepted a $10,000.00 cashier’s check. Defendants contend  Plaintiff cannot establish a probable validity of any real property claim due  to lack of evidence, citing the denial of Plaintiff’s motion for summary  judgment in the prior case, which motion was based on the same in-court  testimony from Millner that Plaintiff relies on here. The Court notes that  judicial notice was taken only of the existence of the tentative ruling and not  that the motion for summary judgment was denied.  Defendants contend Plaintiff is prohibited under the  disentitlement doctrine from seeking the Court’s assistance here since  Plaintiff failed to comply with the prior court order directing Plaintiff to  expunge the prior lis pendens. Defendants dispute Plaintiff’s contention that  she was involved with the various contributions to the subject property, saying  there is no evidence for these purported contributions, and contend that it was  Millner who paid for the improvements to the property.  In Plaintiff’s supplemental reply, Plaintiff notes that Millner’s  opposition does not deny that Plaintiff paid the $29,400 down payment to  purchase the property.  Plaintiff  contends the disentitlement doctrine does not apply because the Plaintiff  expunged the prior lis pendens. Plaintiff further contends the $10,000 payment  to Plaintiff in May 2023 was to help Plaintiff find other housing, not for a  settlement agreement, and the emails Defendants proffered do not show this case  was settled, especially considering the subject property has $600,000 in  equity. Plaintiff also contends Defendants’ request for attorney’s fees should  not be awarded.  Analysis  A real property claim is a cause of action that, if successful,  would affect title to or the right of possession of specific real property or  the use of an easement identified in a pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.5; see  Id., § 405.20 [“A party to an action who asserts a real property claim  may record a notice of pendency of action in which that real property claim  is alleged.”].) A notice of pendency of action must be expunged, “if the  court finds that the claimant has not established by a preponderance of the  evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.” (Id., §  405.32; De Martini v. Superior Court (2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 1269,  1278-1279 [“The trial court must order a lis pendens be expunged if the  claimant fails to establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable  validity of the real property claim. [Citation.]”) "'Probable validity,'  with respect to a real property claim, means that it is more likely than not  that the claimant will obtain a judgment against the defendant on the claim."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.3.)  The  law requires plaintiffs to record a lis pendens upon commencing an action for  quiet title or partition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.010, subd. (b); Id., §  872.250, subd. (a).) Normally, a lis pendens may be recorded by an attorney  without the courts’ approval. (See Id., § 405.21.) It is only after a  lis pendens has been expunged that the plaintiff must then obtain court  approval to record a second lis pendens. (Id., 405.36; De Martini,  supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at p. 1276.)  As  the Court previously noted, there  does not appear to have been any prior California precedent reaching the same  conclusion as the Court of Appeal did in De Martini. (Minute Order  (3/28/24).) In De Martini, the Court of Appeal relied on an unpublished  federal opinion, in which the federal district court interpreted Code of Civil  Procedure section 405.36 and held that it applied even though the prior lis  pendens had been expunged in a different action in a different court. (De  Martini, supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at p. 1276, quoting in part Fid. Nat'l Title Co. v. United States SBA (E.D. Cal. 2015) 2015 WL 7077407.) The Court infers from  this that there was no prior case law in California that specifically addressed  the applicability of Code of Civil Procedure section 405.36 across multiple  actions. As such, Plaintiff’s belief that the initiation of a new action  otherwise required Plaintiff to record the Lis Pendens without first seeking  court approval was reasonable, especially in light of the requirements of Code  of Civil Procedure sections 761.010, subdivision (b), and 872.250, subdivision  (a).  Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claim  Having  reviewed the parties’ supplemental briefs, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s  claim is a real property claim and that she has established the probable validity  of her claim by a preponderance of the evidence. (See Code Civ. Proc., §  405.3.) The complaint alleges causes of action for quiet title and partition,  which are necessarily real property claims. (See Compl., 13:1-15:10; Code Civ.  Proc., § 405.5.) Plaintiff contends she is an equal co-owner of the subject property  with Millner and that she has a right to possession. (Compl., 13:1-15:10; Joyce  Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Millner acknowledged in an open court proceeding before a  judicial officer that Plaintiff gave her $29,000 as a down payment towards the  purchase of the house and that Plaintiff would be able to live there as long as  the home was owned. (Plaintiff’s Exhibits, Ex. 1, 2:15-3:12; Request for  Judicial Notice, Ex. B, 7:17-8:14.) Defendants also do not dispute that Millner  made this statement in court. (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58  Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)[4]  The Court  finds this evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the parties intended to be co-owners  of the subject property for purposes of establishing the probable validity of  Plaintiff’s claim.[5] (See In  re Marriage of Ruelas (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 339, 342, internal quotation  marks omitted, disapproved on other grounds in Conservatorship of O.B. (2020)  9 Cal.5th 989, 1003 [“When a transfer of real property is made to one person,  and the consideration therefor is paid by or for another, a trust is presumed  to result in favor of the person by or for whom such payment is made. The trust  that is presumed to result from this situation is termed a resulting trust; its  purpose is to enforce the intentions of the parties.”]; see also Socol v.  King (1950) 36 Cal.2d 342, 342 [claimant of pro tanto resulting trust entitled  to impose trust on portion of title in relation to proportion of the total  consideration paid].)  The Court finds Defendants’ contentions regarding the  $10,000 check from May 2023 as evidence of having settled this action to be  unpersuasive. The emails Defendants submitted are not a settlement agreement,  nor do they set forth the terms of any purported settlement agreement for this  entire action. (See Millner-Todd Decl., Ex. B; see also Moncada v. West Coast Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 777, internal quotation  marks omitted [“Where a contract is so uncertain and indefinite that the  intention of the parties in material particulars cannot be ascertained, the  contract is void and unenforceable. [Citation.]”])) Plaintiff further provided evidence that she promised Millner  could treat the $10,000 payment as a credit to offset any future settlement  payment, but that all settlement efforts with Millner failed. (Goshgarian Supp.  Reply Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, 7.)  The Court further finds Defendants’ contentions regarding  the denial of Plaintiff’s summary judgment motion in the prior action  unavailing. Summary judgment motions determine whether there are triable issues  of material fact. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) Plaintiff needs  only to establish the probable validity of a claim to record the Lis Pendens. (Id.,  § 405.32.) She does not have to prove that she will win this case. (See Id.) The prior court’s tentative ruling on the summary judgment motion  simply found that Millner’s prior in-court testimony did not establish the  absence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Plaintiff owned 50%  of the property. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A.) It in no way determined  the probable validity of Plaintiff’s claims, even if it were a final ruling of  the prior court.  With respect to the  disentitlement doctrine argument, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that it is  not an issue here since Plaintiff ultimately did expunge the prior lis pendens  in compliance with the prior court’s order. (See Pallack Reply Decl., ¶ 3; Weeks v. Superior Court (1921) 187 Cal. 620, 622  [trial court not obligated to honor a party’s request for relief when they are  in contempt of a court’s prior order].) Defendants also presented no evidence  showing that the prior court ever found Plaintiff in contempt for violating the  prior court order.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion to approve the recording of the Lis Pendens and DENIES Defendants’  motion to expunge the Lis Pendens.  Bond or Undertaking  “[A]t any time after a notice of pendency of action  has been recorded, and regardless of whether a motion to expunge has been  filed, the court may, upon motion by any person with an interest in the  property, require the claimant to give the moving party an undertaking as a  condition of maintaining the notice in the record title.” (Code Civ. Proc, §  405.34.) Trial courts retain common law authority to waive statutory bond  requirements for indigent parties. (Conover v. Hall (1974) 11 Cal.3d  842, 850-851.)  Plaintiff contends she should not be required to post  a bond or undertaking due to her indigent circumstances. Plaintiff contends her  sole source of income is Supplemental Security Disability payments of about  $1,148.00 per month. Plaintiff notes that the Court may waive any statutory  requirement for posting a bond when the party is indigent. In opposition,  Defendants contend Plaintiff should be required to post a bond of $100,000 due  to the impact of Plaintiff’s actions on title to the property over the past  nine years, which precluded Millner from refinancing, improving, and selling  the subject property.  The Court finds Plaintiff has shown she is indigent  and that the imposition of a bond or undertaking would be unduly burdensome for  her. (See Conover, supra, 11 Cal.3d at pp. 850-851.) Plaintiff states  that her monthly income is $1,148.00. (Joyce Decl., ¶ 1.) The Court therefore  declines to impose a bond on Plaintiff to maintain the Lis Pendens.  Attorney’s Fees and Costs  “The court shall direct that the party prevailing on  any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and  costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other  party acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the  imposition of attorney's fees and costs unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  405.38.)  Plaintiff contends that attorney’s fees should not be  awarded to either party under this motion. In opposition, Defendants contend  they should recover $25,000 to $40,000 in attorney’s fees.  The Court declines to award attorney’s fees here.  Although Plaintiff has prevailed on this motion, Plaintiff expressly requested  that neither party recover attorney’s fees on these motions. (Plaintiff’s Supp.  Brief, 4:15-22.) Here, Plaintiff prevailed and Defendants did not. Therefore,  Defendants are not entitled to recover attorney’s fees. (Code Civ. Proc., §  405.38.) Additionally, Defendants are in pro per, and pro per parties generally  cannot recover attorney’s fees. (See Trope v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th  274, 280 [attorney representing himself in pro per not entitled to recover  attorney’s fees].)  CASE  NAME:  Nobia  Joyce v. Shawn M. Millner, et al.  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s  Demurrer to Defendants/Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint  PROCEDURAL HISTORY – Demurrer              On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff demurred to Defendants’  Second Amended Cross-Complaint. On April 18, 2024, Defendants opposed the  demurrer.[6] On April  24, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL STANDARD – Demurrer             A demurrer  is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises  issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's  pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10;  see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It  is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the  complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the  complaint are assumed to be true.(Id.)   A demurrer  can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading  under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.)¿No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered.¿(Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881  [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer];  see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d  859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund  Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider contents of release not  part of court record].)   A demurrer  can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or  discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v.  Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.)¿The “face of the  complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in  the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see  also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505  [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Demurrer              The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes judicial notice only as to the existence,  content, and authenticity of such documents; it does  not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez  v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)   DISCUSSION – Demurrer              Meet  and Confer              Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Plaintiff was required  to meet and confer with Defendants either in person or by telephone before  bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds  Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Mentzer Decl., ¶¶ 5-12.)              Breach  of Contract Claims (First, Fourth, and Eighteenth)              “A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading  of a contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform,  defendant's breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. (4 Witkin, Cal.  Procedure (4th ed. 1997) Pleading, § 476, p. 570.) A written contract may be  pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the  contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by  its legal effect. (Id., §§ 479, 480, pp. 572–573.)” (McKell v. Washington  Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)                           July  5, 2018 Settlement Agreement  The Court  finds that the First Cause of Action for breach of the July 5, 2018 Settlement  Agreement (the July Settlement) fails to allege facts sufficient to state a  cause of action. The July Settlement contains no terms prohibiting Plaintiff  from assigning her interests in the subject property. (SACC, Ex. A.) In fact,  the SACC alleges that Plaintiff assigned a non-existent interest. (Id.,  ¶ 57.) If no interest existed, it does not make sense how such a transfer could  breach the July Settlement. It is also unclear how Plaintiff’s assignment of a  non-existent interest was part of a scheme to defraud Millner vis-à-vis the  July Settlement. (Id.) It is further unclear how Plaintiff engaged in an  allegedly fraudulent scheme to “recap” attorney fees from Plaintiff to her  former attorney and how that inhibited Millner from obtaining benefits under  the July Settlement, or how it has any bearing on the July Settlement for that  matter. (SACC, ¶ 57, Ex. A.)  The July  Settlement also struck the language regarding the parties executing mutual  releases of all of their claims, and provides that the parties would dismiss  their claims without prejudice. (See Id., ¶ 56, Ex. A, emphasis  added; Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1.) This means Plaintiff was able to  bring the same claims against Defendants in a new lawsuit. (See Wells v.  Marina City Properties, Inc. (1981) 29 Cal.3d 781, 784 [dismissal without  prejudice permits party to file new lawsuit on the same claims, provided no statute  of limitations bar applies].)  It is  unclear as to how Plaintiff allegedly “attempting to rewrite the terms” of the  July Settlement constitutes a breach of those terms, or how the Golden  cross-defendants’ engaging in the unauthorized practice of law constitutes a  breach of the July Settlement. (See SACC, ¶¶ 57-58.) Additionally, the release  of the prior lis pendens by a certain date is not a term of the July  Settlement. (SACC, Ex. A.)  The Court  also does not find that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over the  July Settlement. Although the prior court retained jurisdiction under Code of  Civil Procedure section 664.6, (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1), the prior  case has since been related to this action and is before the same Court.  (Minute Order (10/1/20).) The Court therefore finds this argument to be one of  form over substance.  Given the  foregoing, the Court finds the SACC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a  cause of action, and SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend as to the First  Cause of Action. The Court declines to address the other issues for this cause  of action raised in their respective briefs.  Breach of the August 2018 Co-signor Agreement  The Court  finds the SACC alleges sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach  of the August 2018 Co-signor Agreement (the Co-signor Agreement). The SACC  attaches a copy of the Co-signor Agreement, containing Plaintiff’s and  Millner’s respective signatures. (SACC, Ex. D.) That agreement provides that  Plaintiff would indemnify or reimburse Millner for any amounts Millner incurred  thereunder based on Plaintiff’s actions in connection with the rental agreement  referenced therein. (Id.) The SACC alleges that Millner incurred an  unpaid balance from The Orchards (i.e., the rental unit) due to Plaintiff’s  actions, and that Plaintiff has not repaid it. (Id., ¶ 97, Ex. G.) The Court also finds the allegations are  sufficiently clear and understandable, such that they do not render this cause  of action subject to demurrer for uncertainty. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (f); Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins.  Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848  fn. 3 [pleading must be so incomprehensible that the defendant cannot  reasonably respond].)  Accordingly,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action. The Court  declines to address the parties other arguments with respect to this cause of  action.  May 2023 Settlement Agreement  The Court  finds the Eighteenth Cause of Action for breach of the May 2023 Settlement  Agreement (the May Agreement) fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause  of action. The email referenced in the SACC is not a settlement agreement.  (SACC, Ex. W.) It does not mention the word  settlement or release, it does not explain what the $10,000 is for, it does not  mention releasing claims against the Defendants, and it does not provide a  timeframe for completion, among other things. (See Moncada v. West Coast Corp.  (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 777, internal quotation marks omitted [“Where a  contract is so uncertain and indefinite that the intention of the parties in  material particulars cannot be ascertained, the contract is void and  unenforceable. [Citation.]”]) It is not even clear from this email if one could  indicate acceptance and thereby bind the parties. (Civ. Code, § 1585 [“An  acceptance must be absolute and unqualified, or must include in itself an  acceptance of that character which the proposer can separate from the rest, and  which will conclude the person accepting.”]) It is also not enough that  Plaintiff allegedly cashed the check; it needs to have been clear that the  parties intended for her cashing of that check to relinquish her claims against  Defendants. (See SACC, Ex. W; Civ. Code, § 1585; Moncada, supra, 221  Cal.App.4th at p. 777.)  The Court also agrees with Plaintiff that it cannot  be ascertained from the SACC whether this alleged contract is oral, written, or  implied by conduct. (SACC, Ex. W; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Eighteenth Cause of Action with leave to amend. The Court  declines to address the parties’ other arguments with respect to this cause of  action.              Breach  of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Claims (Second, Fifth, and  Nineteenth)  “’The  covenant of good faith is implied as a supplement to express contractual  covenants to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct that  frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the agreement.’  [Citation.]” (Thompson Pac. Constr., Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007)  155 Cal.App.4th 525, 541.) To state a cause of action for breach of the implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating breach beyond the contractual duty itself. (Howard v. American  National Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.)  In light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the  First and Eighteenth Causes of Action, the Court also sustains the demurrer to  the Second and Nineteenth Causes of Action since they are necessarily  predicated on the July Settlement and the May Settlement, respectively. (See Molecular Analytical Sys. v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc.  (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 696, 712 [“The covenant does not exist independently of  the underlying contract. [Citation.]”)  With respect to the Fifth Cause of Action, the Court also  finds that it fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,  albeit not necessarily for the reasons Plaintiff raised in the demurrer. The  Court finds the Fifth Cause of Action for breach of the implied covenant of  good faith and fair dealing to be virtually identical to the Fourth Cause of  Action for breach of contract, and is therefore subject to demurrer. “[W]here  breach of an actual term is alleged, a separate implied covenant claim, based  on the same breach, is superfluous.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.  (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 327.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Fifth Cause of Action with leave to amend. The Court declines to address  the parties’ remaining arguments with respect to these causes of action.              False  Imprisonment (Ninth Cause of Action)              To  state a cause of action for false imprisonment, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating a nonconsensual, intentional confinement of a person, without  lawful privilege, and for an appreciable period of time, however brief. (Jon Davler, Inc. v. Arch Ins. Co. (2014) 229  Cal.App.4th 1025, 1034.)              The  Court finds the Ninth Cause of Action fails to allege sufficient facts to state  a claim for false imprisonment. The SACC contains vague allegations of  Plaintiff having placed her body in front of Millner’s vehicle and in front of  Millner’s office doorway. (SACC, ¶ 173.) It contains no other factual  allegations demonstrating how Plaintiff purportedly restricted Millner’s  freedom of movement. (See Id., ¶¶ 166-185.) All other allegations  therein are conclusory. (See Id.; Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery,  Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808 [conclusory allegations will not  withstand demurrer].)              Based  on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action  with leave to amend. The Court declines to consider the parties’ other  arguments regarding this cause of action.              Slander  of Title (Twelfth Cause of Action)              To  state a case of action for slander of title, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating, “’(1) a publication,  (2) which is  without privilege or justification,  (3) which is false, and (4)  which causes direct  and immediate pecuniary loss.’ [Citation.]” (Klem v. Access Ins. Co. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 595,  612.)              The  Court finds the SACC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim for  slander of title. The SACC contains no allegations showing that Millner  suffered a direct and immediate monetary loss as a result of Plaintiff’s  actions. Instead, it contains vague and conclusory allegations of Millner  having been denied the ability to use and enjoy the property, borrow and  refinance the property, or sell the property due to the prior lis pendens.  (SACC, ¶¶ 234, 239.) None of these allegations identify a direct and immediate  monetary loss. (See SACC, ¶¶ 229-243.) Further, the SACC fails to allege facts showing  that the alleged publication was without privilege or justification.              Based  on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Twelfth Cause of  Action with leave to amend. The Court declines to consider the parties’ other  arguments with respect to this cause of action.              Fraud  Claims (Third, Sixth, and Thirteenth)              To  state a cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation, the plaintiff must  allege facts demonstrating, “(a) misrepresentation (false  representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or  ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable  reliance; and (e) resulting damage. [Citations.]” (Lazar v. Superior Ct.  (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and  conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations]. Thus the policy of liberal  construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a  pleading defective in any material respect.’ ” [Citation.] [¶] This  particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by  what means the representations were tendered.” [Citation.]” (Lazar, supra, 12  Cal.4th at p. 645.)              The Court finds the SACC fails to allege sufficient facts  to state claims with the requisite specificity for the fraud claims in  connection with the July Settlement and the August Co-signor Agreement, i.e,  the Third and Sixth Causes of Action. The SACC contains no allegations of  Plaintiff making any representations to Defendants regarding these agreements.  (See SACC, ¶¶ 82-93, 118-129.) The SACC does not specify what alleged misrepresentations  were made by Plaintiff, when the alleged misrepresentations were made, how they  were made, to whom they were made, and by what means the misrepresentations  were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) It is not enough for  Plaintiff to have allegedly failed to perform as promised under those alleged  agreements. (Bldg. Permit Consultants, Inc. v. Mazur (2004) 122  Cal.App.4th 1400, 1414 [“The mere failure to perform a promise made in good  faith does not constitute fraud.”]) Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Third and Sixth Causes of Action with leave to amend.              The  Thirteenth Cause of Action contains many confusing and unclear allegations, and  otherwise lacks the requisite specificity to allege fraud. (SACC, ¶¶ 229-243.)  The SACC does not identify any specific representation Plaintiff allegedly made  to Defendants upon which they reasonably relied and were damaged as a result.  At most, the SACC alleges something regarding a “Quit Claim Deed masqueraded as  a Termination Agreement,” but it is unclear how Defendants relied on this  document to their detriment. (SACC, ¶ 231.) It is also unclear how Plaintiff  allegedly transferred the subject property from Millner using a fraudulent  assignment deed. (Id., 232.) The SACC otherwise fails to allege when,  how, or to whom any alleged misrepresentations were made, and by what means  they were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Thirteenth Cause of Action with leave to amend. The Court declines to consider  the parties’ remaining arguments regarding these causes of action.            Unjust Enrichment (Fifteenth Cause of Action)              “[T]here is no cause of action  in California for unjust enrichment.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare  (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.) “What is necessary to state a cause of  action are the facts warranting legal relief, and not whether a plaintiff has  provided apt, inapt, or no labels or titles for causes of action. [Citation.]”  (Alfaro v. Cmty. Hous. Improvement Sys. & Plan. Assn., Inc.  (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1371.)              While  the Court agrees with Plaintiff that unjust enrichment is not a cause of  action, (Durell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at p. 1370), Plaintiff concedes  in the demurrer that the Fifteenth Cause of Action alleges a claim for breach  of contract, (Mem. Points & Auth., 22:7-8.) Since the label of a cause of  action is irrelevant, (Alfaro, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1371), then  it does not matter that the SACC labels the Fifteenth Cause of Action as one  for unjust enrichment.  The SACC alleges that Plaintiff asked Millner to help  Plaintiff qualify for renting a certain apartment in San Dimas, and that  Millner would also give Plaintiff $2,000.00 if Plaintiff promised to pay the  rent, which she promised to do. (SACC ¶ 259.) The SACC alleges that Millner  demanded Plaintiff to pay the rent, but that Plaintiff refused. (Id.)  The SACC then alleges that Plaintiff failed to pay the rent as promised, and  that Millner ended up being liable for approximately $6,000.00. (Id.)  The Court finds these allegations sufficient to state a cause of action against  Plaintiff, and therefore OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifteenth Cause of  Action.             For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, Twelfth, Thirteenth,  Eighteenth, and Nineteenth Causes of Action in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint  with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth and  Fifteenth Causes of Action.  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’  Motion to Strike  PROCEDURAL HISTORY – Motion to  Strike              On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff moved to strike portions of  the SACC. On April 18, 2024, Defendants opposed the motion.[7] On April  24, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time  allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to  strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply  to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.  (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out  all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws  of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Motion to Strike              The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) The Court takes judicial notice only as to the  existence, content, and  authenticity of such  documents; it does not take judicial  notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez  v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike              Meet  and Confer              Per  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Plaintiff was required  to meet and confer with Defendants either in person or by telephone before  bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds  Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Mentzer Decl., ¶¶ 5-12.)  Punitive Damages  A claim for punitive damages is subject  to a motion to strike when the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice,  oppression, or fraud necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v.  Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  In light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the  various causes of action noted above, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as  moot with respect to paragraph 184, and the requests for punitive damages in  the prayer for relief for the Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Eighteenth Causes of  Action in the SACC.  The Court finds that since the Fifteenth Cause of Action  is in truth a claim for breach of contract for the reasons set forth above in  the demurrer, punitive damages are not available. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.  (a).) The SACC also only alleges that Plaintiff failed to repay Millner as  previously agreed, which does not rise to the level of malice, oppression, or  fraud to support a request for punitive damages. (See SACC, ¶¶ 256-264; Turman,  supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)  With respect to the requests for punitive damages in paragraphs  145 and 164 and in the prayers for relief for the Seventh and Eighth Causes of  Action for assault and battery, the Court finds the SACC does not allege sufficient  facts to support the claims for punitive damages. (Vaughn v. Jonas (1948)  31 Cal.2d 586, 600 [punitive damages available in assault and battery cases  where the assault was actuated by malice].) The SACC alleges that Plaintiff  accosted Millner in public on at least two occasions. (SACC, ¶¶ 132, 149.)  However, the allegations are largely conclusory and lacking in detail. (See Id.)  For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS the motion to  strike as to the requests for punitive damages in paragraphs 145 and 164 and in  the prayer for relief as to the Seventh, Eighth, and Fifteenth Causes of  action, with leave to amend.  Attorney’s Fees  Attorney’s fees are recoverable when authorized by  contract, statute, or law. (Code civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Given that the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to  amend as to the various causes of action noted above, the Court DENIES the  motion to strike as moot with respect to paragraphs 62, 67, 74, 81, 117b, 292,  299, and 304 of the SACC. However, the Court notes that requests for attorney’s  fees are properly stricken where they are not expressly authorized by contract,  statute or law.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to approve recording of lis  pendens and DENIES Defendant Millner’s motion to expunge lis pendens. The Court  will not require Plaintiff to post a bond. The Court also declines to award  attorney’s fees and costs.  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, Third,  Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Eighteenth, and Nineteenth Causes of  Action in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint with leave to amend. The Court  OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth and Fifteenth Causes of Action. Defendants  Millner and Todd must file an amended cross-complaint within 20 days of the  Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike with leave to amend as to the following portions of the Second Amended  Cross-Complaint:                    1.      Paragraph 145. 2.      Paragraph 164. 3.      Prayer – Seventh Cause of Action – Paragraph 4. 4.       Prayer – Eighth Cause of Action –  Paragraph 4. 5.  Prayer – Fifteenth Cause of Action – Paragraph 4.  The Court DENIES the motion to  strike in all other respects as moot.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this order.     