  [1] On February  15, 2024, Millner filed a motion to expunge lis pendens. On March 28, 2024, the  Court indicated that the additional briefing would satisfy the briefing  requirements for the motion to expunge lis pendens. (Minute Order (3/28/24).)  [2] The  Court notes that it has not seen evidence of the recorded Lis Pendens.   [3] Millner’s opposition and Todd’s opposition are largely  identical, so the Court will treat them as one and the same for purposes of  this motion.   [4] The Court notes that Plaintiff apparently at one point  had assigned her rights in the subject property to Stephen R. Golden.  (Defendants’ Supp. Brief, Ex. H, pg. 57 of pdf.) However, Defendants also  allege in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint that this assignment was  terminated and Plaintiff’s rights thereunder reverted back to her. (SACC, ¶  30.) The parties did not address this issue much in their respective briefs, so  the Court infers then that there is no dispute regarding the termination of  Plaintiff’s assignment to Stephen R. Golden.[5] The Court  declines to address the parties’ arguments regarding Plaintiff’s purported  contributions towards improving the property, finding Plaintiff’s declaration  and Millner’s prior in-court statements addressed above sufficient to show the  probable validity of Plaintiff’s real property claims.   [6] Defendants each filed a separate opposition that were  identical to the other, so the Court will treat the opposition as from both  Defendants.   [7] Defendants each filed a separate opposition that were  identical to the other, so the Court will treat the opposition as from both  Defendants.CASE  NAME:  Nobia  Joyce v. Shawn M. Millner, et al. Plaintiff’s  Request for Trial Preference TENTATIVE  RULING The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for trial preference. BACKGROUND This is a quiet title action. On March 20, 2020, plaintiff Nobia  Joyce (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shawn M. Millner, the  Shawn Marie Millner Revocable Trust (collectively, Millner), Laurence Todd  (Todd) (Millner and Todd may be collectively referred to as Defendants), and  Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for quiet title, partition, declaratory  relief, and ejectment and damages. On November 29, 2022, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff, Stephen R. Golden, Stephen R. Golden & Associates, P.C., and  Does 1 through 20. On February 3, 2023, Defendants filed the operative amended  cross-complaint against the same parties, alleging causes of action for breach  of the July 5, 2018 settlement agreement, breach of the August 12, 2018  co-tenant agreement, assault, battery, false imprisonment, negligent infliction  of emotional distress, intentional infliction of emotional distress, slander of  title, and fraud.             On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  request for trial preference only as to the equitable claims for quiet title  and partition. On March 28, 2024, Defendants opposed the request for trial  preference. On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff replied. LEGAL STANDARD – Request for  Trial Preference             “A party to a civil action who  is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a  preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The  party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of  the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the  party's interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)             “Unless the court otherwise orders: (1) A party may file and serve a motion for  preference supported by a declaration of the moving  party that all essential parties have been served with  process or have appeared. (2) At any time during the pendency of the  action, a party who reaches 70 years of age may file and serve a motion for preference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (c).) DISCUSSION             Summary of Arguments          Plaintiff requests the Court set a date for a bench  trial on the equitable issues of quiet title and partition within the next 120  days based on Plaintiff’s age of 76 years and her health issues per Code of  Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a), and Rules 3.727, subdivision (12),  and 3.729, subdivision (2), of the California Rules of Court. Plaintiff  contends she has difficulty regulating her emotions at times and requires  redirection, guidance and support to engage in effective communication, which inhibits  her ability to effectively advocate for her rights. Plaintiff contends these  problems began to manifest over the past two years and will continue to get  worse over time. Plaintiff further contends equitable issues, like quiet title  and partition, are to be tried by the court before legal issues.             In opposition, Defendants contend the declaration of  Cinthya Isles submitted in support of Plaintiff’s request for trial preference  lacks persuasiveness since Ms. Isles does not state that she is Plaintiff’s  social worker and otherwise provides little explanation for the basis for her  opinion regarding Plaintiff’s emotional challenges. Defendants contend Ms.  Isles works for Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm, which casts doubt on her  objectivity. Defendants also contend Mr. Pallack’s declaration does not corroborate  Ms. Islas’ statements, but instead shows that both of them are unable to work  with or control Plaintiff. Defendants challenge Plaintiff’s declaration as to  why she only provides her date of birth and does not mention or explain her  deteriorating condition. Defendants further point to Plaintiff’s ability to  enter into an agreement in May 2023 regarding a payment of $10,000 for  Plaintiff’s current apartment and was able to communicate with Millner then.  Defendants also argue Plaintiff does not qualify for preference because of  various agreements, in particular the May 2023 Settlement Agreement, which  Plaintiff refuses to finalize. Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s request is  evidence of incompetency, which the Court should examine and determine whether  Plaintiff needs a guardian ad litem. Defendants also note that cross-defendant  Stephen R. Golden and Stephen R. Golden and Associates, P.C., have yet to  appear. In reply, Plaintiff contends the case has not been  settled. Plaintiff contends Defendants do not dispute Plaintiff being 76 years  old. Plaintiff then contends Defendants make contradictory arguments that  Plaintiff is fine on the one hand but then they file a separate application to  appoint a guardian ad litem for Plaintiff, and otherwise fail to present  competent evidence to dispute Ms. Islas’ assessment of Plaintiff. Plaintiff  further contends she should not be penalized by Defendants’ failure to timely  serve the Golden cross-defendants for a cross-complaint that was filed almost  three months ago on February 2, 2024. Plaintiff also contends that the Golden  cross-defendants are not necessary parties to the quiet title and partition  claims. Plaintiff contends that the only claims against the Golden  cross-defendants are for equitable indemnity and apportionment of fault, which  would be determined by the outcome of the trial on Plaintiff’s equitable  claims. Analysis – Health Issue “An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference  under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party  seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical  diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not admissible for any  purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section  36.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.) “[A] motion under subdivision (a) [of Code of  Civil Procedure section 36] may be supported by nothing more than an attorney's  declaration ‘based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and  prognosis of any party.’ [Citations.]” (Fox v. Superior Ct.  (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) Plaintiff has clearly established that she meets the  age requirement for trial preference. (Joyce Decl., ¶ 2.) As for health issues,  the evidence is not particularly strong. All Plaintiff has provided is a  declaration from her attorney and a social worker who works for her attorney’s  firm, attesting that Plaintiff has begun to suffer over the past two years from  difficulties regulating her emotions and needs assistance to communicate  effectively. (Pallack Decl., ¶ 5; Islas Decl., ¶ 2.) But, when the party  requesting preference makes the request under Code of Civil Procedure section  36, subdivision (a), all they have to provide is a declaration from their  attorney opining as to the prognosis and/or medical diagnosis. (Fox, supra, 21  Cal.App.5th at p. 534.) Plaintiff made this request under subdivision (a) of  Code of Civil Procedure section 36, so her attorney’s declaration and the  social worker’s declaration are sufficient to make the requisite showing.  (Plaintiff’s Report re Mediation and Request for Trial Preference (3/27/24).)  Defendants’ attacks on Plaintiff’s supporting declarations do not necessarily  undermine their reliability.  Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff is over 70 years old, has a substantial interest in the action, and her health  is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff's interest in the litigation.Analysis – Unserved Cross-Defendants Defendants argue that the petition for trial  preference should be denied because cross-defendants Stephen R. Golden and  Stephen R. Golden and Associates, P.C. have not been served. While a party  seeking preference by noticed motion must show by declaration that all  essential parties have been served with process or have appeared under subdivision  (c)(1), Plaintiff made her request under subdivision (a), which mandates the  granting of the petition if the two conditions stated therein are met. (Cf. Code  Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (c)(1) and (a).) Plaintiff did not provide any such statement regarding  service in their declaration, and Plaintiff does not dispute that they haven’t  been served. Notwithstanding, the Court will not deny the petition based on  Defendants’ failure to serve their cross-complaint on the Golden cross-defendants. Plaintiff’s argument regarding the Golden  cross-defendants only falling under the equitable indemnity and apportionment  of fault causes of action in the cross-complaint is not accurate. Defendants  also allege the Golden cross-defendants have some liability with respect to the  slander of title claim. (SACC, ¶¶ 141-152.) That being said, slander of title involves a claim  for legal damages. (Manhattan Loft, LLC v. Mercury Liquors, Inc. (2009) 173  Cal.App.4th 1040, 1051 [pecuniary loss is an element of a slander of title  claim].) Plaintiff seeks trial preference only as to the quiet title and  partition claims, which are equitable and can be heard separately by court  trial. (Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1238 [equitable issues  tried before legal issues, which may obviate the need for trial on the legal  issues].) Also, the Golden cross-defendants are not parties to  the complaint and are not the subject of Plaintiff’s quiet title and partition  claims; in fact, they are not even named defendants. (See generally Compl.) The  claims against the Golden cross-defendants arise only from the Second Amended  Cross-Complaint, which is a separate action from Plaintiff’s complaint. “A cross-complaint is generally considered  to be a separate action from that initiated  by the complaint. [Citations.]” (Westamerica Bank v. MBG Indus., Inc. (2007) 158  Cal.App.4th 109, 134.) The Court has the discretion to try Plaintiff’s claims  separately from the others. (Code Civ. Proc., 1048, subd. (b).) In essence, the Golden cross-defendants do not appear  to be essential parties to Plaintiff’s quiet title and partition claims. (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (c)(1).) Given the foregoing, the lack of service of process  on the Golden cross-defendants does not bar the Court granting Plaintiff’s  request for trial preference. Miscellaneous The Defendants’ arguments about various agreements and  the $10,000 payment are not evidence of a settlement agreement undermining  Plaintiff’s request for trial preference. There is no evidence to prove or  otherwise support the claim that the $10,000 payment constituted a settlement  of all of the parties’ claims. As for incompetency issues, those can be addressed at  the hearing on the application for guardian ad litem. Further, these issues are of no consequence. The  Court must grant a petition for trial preference to a party who is over 70  years of age that the Court finds has a substantial interest in the action and  whose health requires preference to prevent prejudice to the party’s interest  in the litigation. Thus, the Court does not consider Defendants’ arguments  regarding the various settlement agreements. Finally,  based on the request for trial preference only as to the equitable claims for  quiet title and partition, the Court finds that Plaintiff formally waive her  entitlement to have the entire case set for a preferential trial date. Given  that the equitable claims must be tried first, the Court exercises it  discretion to accept such waiver so that the entire case will not be tried at  one preferential trial. (See Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180  Cal.App.3d 689, 699.) CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for  trial preference as to Plaintiff’s equitable claims for quiet title and partition.  Plaintiff is order to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.