  Case Number:  21STCV27371    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            



WESTLAKE SERVICES, LLC, DBA
  WESTLAKE FINANCIAL SERVICES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ACJC ENTERPRISES, LLC DBA MAKING IT HAPPEN MOTORS, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV27371




Hearing Date:


September 18, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO
  ENFORCE SETTLEMENT PURSUANT TO CCP § 664.6



 
Background 
Plaintiff Westlake
Services, LLC dba Westlake Financial Services (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
on July 26, 2021 against Defendants ACJC Enterprises, LLC dba Making It Happen
Motors and Jennifer Bazemore aka Jennifer R. Bazemore aka Jennifer Rose
Bazemore (collectively, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) open book account, (2) account stated, (3) reasonable value, (4) breach
of contract, and (5) breach of guarantee. 
On August 1, 2023, a
“Stipulation for Dismissal of Case Pursuant to C.C.P 664.6” was filed in this
matter. The Stipulation provides, inter alia, that “IT IS HEREBY
STIPULATED between Plaintiff, WESTLAKE SERVICES, LLC, a California limited
liability company, dba WESTLAKE FINANCIAL SERVICES, and Defendants ACJC
ENTERPRISES, LLC DBA MAKING IT HAPPEN MOTORS and JENNIFER BAZEMORE AKA JENNIFER
R. BAZEMORE AKA JENNIFER ROSE BAZEMORE (hereinafter the ‘Parties’), that the
above-referenced matter has been resolved in a mutually satisfactory manner.” The
stipulation further provides that “IT IS FURTHER STIPULATED between the Parties
that this action shall be dismissed without prejudice pursuant to C.C.P § 664.6, with the Court reserving its power to set
aside the dismissal and ordering entry of judgment upon a showing of default in
the specified terms of the Stipulation for Entry of Judgment executed by all
parties to the within action.” 
On August 1, 2023, the
Court issued an Order providing, inter alia, that “IT IS HEREBY ORDERED
THAT THIS MATTER IS DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE, WITH THE COURT RESERVING
JURISDICTION TO SET ASIDE THE DISMISSAL AND ORDERING ENTRY OF JUDGMENT UPON A
SHOWING OF DEFAULT IN THE SPECIFIED TERMS OF THE STIPULATION FOR ENTRY OF
JUDGMENT. IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED THAT THE COURT RESERVES JURISDICTION TO
ENTER A DISMISSAL WITH PREJUDICE FOLLOWING NOTICE FROM Plaintiff, WESTLAKE
SERVICES, LLC, a California limited liability company, dba WESTLAKE FINANCIAL
SERVICES…” 
Plaintiff now moves “to
enforce the Stipulation for Entry of Judgment entered into between Plaintiff
and Defendants…pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) §
664.6 and obtain reimbursement of its fees and costs incurred in connection
therewith.” The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
“If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over
the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of
the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)

“Although a judge hearing
a section 664.6 motion may receive
evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes
a judge to create the
material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously
agreed upon.” ((Weddington Productions, Inc. v.
Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810
[internal citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
In the motion, Plaintiff
states that “[b]y this application, Plaintiff seeks to set aside the dismissal
and enforce the written Stipulation for Entry of Judgment which was executed by
Defendants on or about February 1, 2023.” (Mot. at p. 5:6-7.) 
In his supporting
declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that on February 1, 2023, Plaintiff and
Defendants entered into a written Stipulation for Entry of Judgment, which is
attached as Exhibit “1” to Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration. (Frischer Decl.,
¶ 2.) The Stipulation for Entry of Judgment provides, inter alia, as
follows: 
 
“…Defendants stipulate to the entry of
judgment in the sum of $12,996.20, plus interest at the rate of 10% per annum
from the date of default of December 20, 2019, together with attorney’s fees
and costs in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants. However, this
Stipulation shall not be filed with the court and no judgment shall be entered
pursuant thereto so long as the Defendants pay Plaintiff the sum of $14,500.00,
in accordance with the payment schedule set forth hereinbelow, without default
and failure to timely cure:
 
A) Defendants shall make twenty-nine (29)
payments of $483.00 on the first (1st) day of each month commencing
on or before April 1, 2023 and continuing through August 1, 2025; and 
 
B) Defendants shall make one (1) final
payment of $493.00 on September 1, 2025.” 
 
(Frischer Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, p. 2.)  
In addition, the
Stipulation for Entry of Judgment provides as follows: 
 
“IT IS FURTHER
STIPULATED AND AGREED that in the event Defendants should default in any
payments when due, as hereinabove set forth, Plaintiff shall provide Defendants
with a ten (10) day written notice of said default. Said notice shall be sent
by email and regular mail to: Roy R. Stanley, Esq., Stanley Law Office…Plaintiff
may, on the eleventh (11th) day immediately following said written notice of
default, declare the then entire unpaid balance immediately due and payable, together
with attorney’s fees incurred in the collection of said obligation if said
default has not been cured. In such event, judgment shall be immediately
entered in the sum of $12,996.20, plus interest at the rate of 10% per annum
from the date of default of December 20, 2019, together with attorney’s fees
and costs in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants, less any sums received
by Plaintiff from said Defendants pursuant to the terms of this Stipulation.”  
 
(Frischer Decl.,
¶ 2, Ex. 1, pp. 2-3.)
The Stipulation for Entry
of Judgment also provides that “IT IS FURTHER STIPULATED between the Parties
that this Court retain jurisdiction over the parties hereto to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement, in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6.” (Frischer
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, p. 4.) 
In his supporting
declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Defendants defaulted on the terms
and conditions of the Stipulation by failing to make their payment which was
due on December 1, 2023. To date Plaintiff has received payments in the sum of
$3,885.00 from Defendants…” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel further
indicates that “[o]n December 21, 2023, I sent to Defendants’ counsel, pursuant
to the terms of the Stipulation a letter stating that unless the default was
cured within 10 days, our office would have judgment entered against
Defendants.” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Defendants
have failed to cure their default. No payment has been received to date and
Defendants are now in arrears for 3 months.” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 5.) 
As set forth above, the
parties’ Stipulation for Entry of Judgment provides that “in the event
Defendants should default in any payments when due, as hereinabove set forth,
Plaintiff shall provide Defendants with a ten (10) day written notice of said
default…Plaintiff may, on the eleventh (11th) day immediately following said written
notice of default, declare the then entire unpaid balance immediately due and
payable, together with attorney’s fees incurred in the collection of said
obligation if said default has not been cured. In such event, judgment shall be
immediately entered in the sum of $12,996.20, plus interest at the rate of 10%
per annum from the date of default of December 20, 2019, together with attorney’s
fees and costs in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants, less any sums
received by Plaintiff from said Defendants pursuant to the terms of this
Stipulation.” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, pp. 2-3.)
Plaintiff asserts that per
this provision, Plaintiff is entitled to judgment against Defendants in the
total amount of $21,015.57. Plaintiff seeks a principal sum of $12,996.20, 
$6,173.04 in interest, $956.33 in costs,
and $4,775.00 in attorneys’ fees, minus the $3,885.00 payment already made. (Mot.
at p. 5:22-27; Frischer Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff
has incurred attorneys’ fees in this action in the sum of $4,775.00,” and that
“Plaintiff has incurred costs in this action in the sum of $884.06.” (Frischer
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) In addition, Plaintiff provides interest calculations.
(Frischer Decl., ¶ 8.) 
As discussed, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, “[i]f parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in
full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 664.6, subd. (a).) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated grounds for the Court to enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the parties’ Stipulation for Entry of
Judgment, specifically, the terms providing that in the event Defendants’
default, “judgment shall be immediately entered in the sum of $12,996.20, plus
interest at the rate of 10% per annum from the date of default of December 20,
2019, together with attorney’s fees and costs in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendants, less any sums received by Plaintiff from said Defendants pursuant
to the terms of this Stipulation.” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, pp. 2-3.) As
discussed, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Defendants have failed to cure
their default.” (Frischer Decl., ¶ 5.)
Defendants do not oppose
the instant motion, and thus do not provide any evidence that they have cured
their default. Defendants do not oppose Plaintiffs’ request to enforce the
parties’ Stipulation for Entry of Judgment. 

Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to enforce the parties’ Stipulation for
Entry of Judgment and to obtain reimbursement of Plaintiff’s fees and costs.
The dismissal in this action is ordered set aside, and judgment will be entered
in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants in the total sum of $21,015.57. Plaintiff
is ordered to file and serve a proposed JUD-100 within 10 days of the date of
this Order. 
///
///
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  September 18, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court 