 Case Number:  21STCV21154    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 7, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Ruiz Solano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants True Loyalty, Inc., Rodrigo Vital, Jr., and Does 1-50 for
negligence/negligence per se and negligent entrustment. 
On
August 2, 2021, Defendants True Loyalty, Inc. and Rodrigo Vital, Jr. filed an
answer. 
On
April 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion to be relieved as counsel,
to be heard on May 8, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 29, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel ask to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the
notice is served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section
1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that
either: 
“(A)   The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved. 
“(2)  If the
notice is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current
electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
 Counsel has not filed a proof
of service showing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order on Plaintiff and the answering Defendants.  (See Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) 
In addition,
the notice of motion and motion (form MC-051) states that Moses Lebovits and
Richard Jacinto are asking to be relieved as counsel.  However, the declaration (form MC-052) and
proposed order (form MC-053) state that only Moses Lebovits is asking to be
relieved as counsel.  Counsel should
clarify which counsel are asking to be relieved. 
The
Court denies the motion without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice the motion to be relieved as counsel filed on April 10, 2024. 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.