  Case Number:  21STCV26026    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WILLIAM
  ERNESTO QUINTEROS, et al. 
  
         vs.
 
BUDDIE L.
  HORN as TRUSTEE OF THE HORN TRUST.


 Case No.:  21STCV26026
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 5, 2023



 
Petitioner Nancy Marin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Marion Matias is granted.  The Court
orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Nancy Marin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Adrian Matias is granted.  The Court
orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Nancy Marin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Zoe Matias is granted.  The Court
orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Nancy Marin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Aenhoa Marin is granted.  The Court
orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  
Petitioner Veronica Colin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Cassandra Quinteros is granted.  The
Court orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Veronica Colin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Caroline Quinteros is granted. 
The Court orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.    
 
Petitioner Veronica Colin’s petition to approve minor’s compromise
for Natalie Quinteros is granted.  The
Court orders the funds deposited in the blocked account.    
 

Petitioner Veronica Flores’ petition to
approve minor’s compromise for Naomi Pinzon is granted.  The Court orders the funds deposited in the
blocked account.   
 
Petitioner Veronica Flores’ petition to
approve minor’s compromise for Noel Pinzon is granted.  The Court orders the funds deposited in the
blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Nora Anaya’s petition to
approve minor’s compromise for Ruben Anaya II is granted.  The Court orders the funds deposited in the
blocked account.  
 
Petitioner Nora Anaya’s petition to
approve minor’s compromise for Elizabeth Anaya is granted.  The Court orders the funds deposited in the
blocked account.  

 
Petitioner Nancy Marin (“N. Marin”), on behalf of Claimants Marion
Matias (“Marion”), Adrian Matias (“Adrian”), Zoe Matias (“Zoe”), and Aenhoa
Marin (“Aenhoa”) petitions the Court to approve minors’ compromises in the
settlement of the instant action.  
Petitioner Veronica Colin (“V. Colin”), on behalf of Claimants
Cassandra Quinteros (“Cassandra”), Caroline Quinteros (“Caroline”), and Natalie
Quinteros (“Natalie”) petitions the Court to approve minors’ compromises in the
settlement of the instant action.
Petitioner Veronica Flores (“V. Flores”), on behalf of Claimants
Naomi Pinzon (“Naomi”) and Noel Pinzon (“Noel”) petitions the Court to approve
minors’ compromises in the settlement of the instant action.
Petitioner Nora Anaya (“N. Anaya”), on behalf of Claimants Ruben
Anaya II (“Ruben”) and Elizabeth Anaya (“Elizabeth”) petitions the Court to
approve minors’ compromises in the settlement of the instant action.
 
I.                  
Background
N. Marin, individually and as guardian ad litem for Marion,
Adrian, Zoe, and Aenhoa (collectively, “Matias Claimants”); V. Colin, individually
and as guardian ad litem for Cassandra, Caroline, and Natalie (collectively, “Quinteros
Claimants”); V. Flores, individually and as guardian ad litem for Naomi and
Noel (collectively, “Pinzon Claimants”); and N. Anaya, individually and as
guardian ad litem for Ruben and Elizabeth (collectively, “Anaya Claimants”)
together with other named Plaintiffs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed an initial
complaint against Defendant Buddie L. Horn as trustee of the Horn Trust (“Horn”)
(“Defendant”) on July 15, 2021. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant on September 15, 2021, for (1) breach of implied warranty of
habitability, (2) breach of statutory warranty of habitability, (3) breach of
the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) violation of Civil Code §1942.4,
and (6) private nuisance for issues
at an apartment building located 1111 E. Garvey Avenue, North West Covina,
California 91790, APN 8456-023-037 (“Apartment Building”), owned and managed by
Defendant, where Plaintiffs were tenants in Units 3, 5, 6, and 7.  (FAC ¶¶1-2.)  Pursuant
to the instant petitions, Defendant has agreed to pay Plaintiffs to settle the
claims.  (Petitions ¶¶10, 11.)  
A settlement was reached pursuant to which Defendant agreed to pay
a total of $1,125,000.00.  (Petitions at Attach. 11, pg. 2.)  The eleven settling minor claimants (Marion,
Adrian, Zoe, Aenhoa, Cassandra, Caroline, Natalie, Naomi, Noel, Ruben, and
Elizabeth) will receive a gross sum of $15,000.00 each, and the eleven adult
Plaintiffs will receive $87,272.73 each. 
(Petitions at Attach. 11.)  The total amount of attorney’s fees for which
court approval is requested is $3,635.67, calculated as twenty-five percent of
the minor claimant’s settlement total and is based on a contingency basis, and
the total fees are $457.31, for a total of $4,092.98 in attorney’s fees and
costs per minor claimant.  (Petitions
¶13; Decl. of Chapman ¶¶4.) 
The net balance of proceeds for each minor claimant is $10,907.02.  (Petitions ¶¶15, 16(f).)  All procedural requirements have been met, as
Petitioners have completed a Judicial Council form MC-350 on behalf of each minor
claimant, signed by their respective Petitioner, as well as Form MC-351 on the
minor claimants’ behalf.  
 
II.               
Legal Standard
Compromises of disputed claims brought by minors are governed in
part by C.C.P. §372.  The statute allows
a guardian ad litem to appear in court on behalf of a minor claimant and gives
the guardian ad litem the power to compromise the minor’s claim “with the
approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.”  A petition for court approval of a compromise
must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise or
covenant.  (CRC Rule 7.950.)  CRC Rule 7.952(a) requires the attendance of
the petitioner and claimant at the hearing on the compromise of the claim
unless the court for good causes dispenses with their personal appearance.
“Neither section 372 nor the California Rules of Court (rules
7.950 & 7.952) contemplates a noticed motion and adversary hearing when
court approval of a minor’s compromise is sought. Although we need not decide
the question, it would appear that a petition to approve or disapprove a
minor’s compromise may be decided by the superior court, ex parte, in
chambers.”  (Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.)  
CRC Rule 7.955(a) requires the Court to use “a reasonable fee
standard” when approving and allowing the amount of attorneys’ fees payable
from money to be paid for the benefit of a person with a disability and
requires that the Court “give consideration to the terms of any representation
agreement made between the attorney and the representative of the minor . . .
and evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the
time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the representative
of the minor . . . contemplated that the attorney’s fee would be affected by
later events.”  
CRC Rule 7.955(b) sets forth fourteen nonexclusive factors the
Court may consider in determining a reasonable attorney’s fee.  CRC Rule 7.955(c) requires that a petition
requesting Court approval and allowance of an attorney’s fee under 7.955(a)
must include a declaration from the attorney that addresses the factors listed
in 7.955(b) that are applicable to the matter before the Court. 
 
III.            
 Analysis
Petitioners N. Marin, V. Colin, V. Flores, and N. Anaya seek court
approval for a settlement under which minor claimants would each receive $10,907.02.  The amounts reflect payment amounts to each minor
claimant after deduction of attorneys’ fees representing 25% of each minor
claimant’s settlement and after deduction of costs in amounts specific
to each minor claimant.  (See Petitions
¶16(f).)  
This is a habitability suit, in which minor claimants lived in
uninhabitable conditions, including but not limited to living with cockroach,
bed bug, and rodent infestations, which caused injuries including bed bug
bites, lack of sleep, and allergies with symptoms including running nose and
cough.  (Petitions ¶¶5-6.)  The minor claimants have recovered completely
from these injuries with no permanent injuries. 
(Petitions ¶8.)  
Petitioners’ counsel, Christofer Chapman, declares that the attorney
fees requested are based on a contingency basis and attorneys’ fees are
contingent on a settlement or judgment. 
(Decl. of Chapman ¶4.)  Chapman declares
the costs advanced in this matter are $34,298.33 to date.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶4.)  Chapman declares in the course of this
litigation, his firm conducted numerous client meetings, site inspections, depositions,
mediation sessions and made court appearances.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  Chapman declares his firm propounded and responded
to written discovery relative to each plaintiff client including the minor
claimants, and his firm propounded written discovery on the defendants on
behalf of his clients.  (Decl. of Chapman
¶5.)  Chapman declares this case also involved
evaluation of complex coverage issues such as multiple policy exclusions and the
application of multiple insurance policies for multiple owners.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  Chapman declares the average amount of time
expended in the prosecution of this matter on behalf of each minor claimant was
approximately 20 hours each.  (Decl. of Chapman
¶5.)  Chapman declares the attorneys’
fees sought in this matter from the minor claimants is reasonable given the issues,
expertise, time, and experience required to bring this matter to resolution.  (Decl. of Chapman ¶5.)  
Petitions include copies of agreements between Petitioners and
their counsel that are included with English translations certified by a
certified court interpreter. 
(Attachments 17(a)(2).)  Each
agreement identifies the names of the individuals who signed the submitted
retainer agreements on behalf of the minor clients. As such, the submitted
copies of the written attorney fee arrangement agreements with minor claimants
are sufficient and support the attorneys’ fees request. 
Petitioners request this Court order the disposition of the minor
claimants’ balance of the settlements, in the amount of $10,907.02 per minor
claimant, be deposited in insured accounts in one or more financial
institutions in this state, subject to withdrawal only on authorization of the
Court.  (Petitions ¶18(b)(2).)  Petitioners select the following financial
institution for the disposition of the minor claimants’ balances: Pacific
Premier Bank, 4957 Katella Ave Unit B, Los Alamitos, CA 90720.  (Petitions at Attachs. 18(b)(2).)
Given the age of the minor claimants, the Court will only require
attendance at the hearing by the Petitioners to grant the petition.  (CRC Rule 7.952.)
 
IV.           
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the petitions to approve the minors’
compromise are granted.  The Court orders
the funds deposited in the blocked accounts.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December ____, 2023
                                                                             





  