  Case Number:  18STCV05076    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs and Defendants Sina
Mardani and Azadeh Mardani’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
 MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 A
party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no
merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f
all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is
no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)   
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiffs moving for summary
judgment may meet their initial burden by “prov[ing] each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) 
Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  The defendant may not rely
upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiffs
Sina Mardani and Azadeh Mardani (The Mardanis) move for summary adjudication on
their first cause of action for inverse condemnation against Defendant County
of Los Angeles (County), limited to the issue of County’s liability on that
claim, leaving the question of the Mardanis’ compensation to a later jury
trial. (Motion at pp. 11–12.) The Mardanis argue that there are no disputes as
to their ownership of the property, or the origins of destructive sewage from a
public sewer maintained by County. (Motion at p. 13.) The Mardanis also argue
that there is no dispute that their property has been damaged by sewage flowing
out of the manhole on their property, although disputes exist as to the amount
of damage that could have been averted by the installation of a backwater valve
on their private sewer line. (Motion at pp. 13–15.) The Mardanis finally argue
that there are no triable issues as to whether these damages were caused by an
“inherent dangers of the public improvement as deliberately designed,
constructed, or maintained” by the County, as sewage overflows are an inherent
risk of sewer maintenance, and particularly so where the County has embraced a
deliberate policy of repeated cleaning of the line in question, rather than
replacing a sagging portion of the line. (Motion at pp. 15–18, quoting City of Oroville v. Superior Court (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091, 1106.) 
The County argues that the present motion is improper, as
it seeks summary adjudication of less than the entire cause of action for
inverse condemnation. (Opposition at pp. 13–16.) County also argues that the
Mardanis’ motion relies on notions of strict liability for public entities in
the inverse condemnation context that was rejected in City of Oroville v.
Superior Court (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091. (Opposition at pp. 16–18.)
County argues that it reasonably maintained the sewer line in question, and
that the sag identified in Plaintiff’s evidence did not meaningfully contribute
to the occurrence of the sewer overflows. (Opposition at pp. 22–23.) County
finally argues that the Mardanis have failed to establish their case by
reference to expert testimony. (Opposition at pp. 23–24.) 
The Mardanis’ motion is procedurally infirm, as the County
argues, because this court may not grant summary adjudication on a plaintiff’s
cause of action on the issue of liability only, leaving the issue of compensation
to be decided at a later date. The question of whether a plaintiff may “seek summary adjudication
of liability only, leaving the resolution of damages to a later trial” must “be
answered in the negative.” (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.) Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subd. (f)(1)
describes a court’s authority to summarily adjudicate “one or more causes of
action,” but “only if it completely disposes of a cause of action.” Moreover, “[a]
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
Under this language, plaintiffs
cannot seek summary adjudication, as the Mardanis do here, of a defendant’s
liability only, leaving the remaining question of damages for resolution by the
trier of fact. This is because a motion for summary adjudication “shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action,” and proves “each
element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(1), (p)(1).) But a “decision on the
issue of liability against the party on whom liability is sought to be imposed
does not result in a judgment until the issue of damages is resolved.” (Paramount
Petroleum Corp., supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 243.) Such
a summary adjudication would therefore “be improper.” (Ibid.)
The Mardanis argue that the
following language from Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 855, supports allowing a plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication on the issue of liability in an inverse condemnation action:
Because inverse condemnation actions usually
involve issues of liability (on which there is no jury trial right) in addition
to issues concerning the amount of compensation due (on which there is a right
to a jury trial), trial courts often bifurcate inverse condemnation actions and
decide them in two phases. In the first phase, the court determines whether the
public entity's actions have resulted in compensable taking or damage via
dispositive motions or, when necessary, a bench trial. In the second phase, if
there is one, a jury determines the amount of compensation due.
(Weiss,
supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 855 fn. 4.) The Mardanis argue that
this case’s reference to “dispositive motions” supports the permissibility of
their motion here. (Motion at p. 12.) The Mardanis also point to other language
in which the court stated: “Issues of inverse condemnation liability may be addressed
on demurrer, through a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or
at a bench trial.” (Motion at p. 12; Weiss, supra, 9 Cal.5th
at p. 853.) 
 
This case
does not support the Mardanis’ position. Motions for summary judgment and
adjudication are of course permissible to resolve issues of inverse
condemnation liability, provided that the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure § 437c are met. A defendant, for instance, may move for summary
adjudication on the grounds that an element necessary to support liability does
not exist, because such a determination would “completely dispose[] of a cause
of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Likewise, a plaintiff could
bring a motion addressed only to liability, even if the issue did not dispose
of the cause of action, if they obtained a joint stipulation meeting the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subd. (t).
 
But the Weiss
court did not determine that inverse condemnation claims are subject to special
procedures under Code of Civil Procedure § 437c — quite the opposite. That
case addressed whether an inverse condemnation defendant could obtain summary
relief on liability grounds by filing a pretrial motion under Code of Civil
Procedure § 1260.040, a statute specially applicable to eminent domain cases. (Weiss,
supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 848.) When asked to make this special
statutory procedure available to defendants in to inverse condemnation actions,
however, the court balked, reasoning that “inverse condemnation actions proceed
by the rules governing ordinary civil actions, not the special rules that apply
to eminent domain proceedings.” (Id. at p. 859.) Use of the special eminent
domain statute would have “supplanted” the summary judgment procedures outlined
in section 437c and applicable “[i]n ordinary civil actions, such as this one.”
(Id. at pp. 864–865.) 
 
The Weiss
court thus determined that inverse condemnation cases are subject to the
ordinary rules of civil procedure and summary judgment. Under those rules, the
Mardanis’ motion is procedurally defective, and the relief they seek cannot be
granted. 
 
The
motion is therefore DENIED.[1]


