  Case Number:  22AHCV00509    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JIN ZHOU, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHUANGSHUANG
   LI,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 22AHCV00509
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September 29,
  2023




 


 


 



 
Ray Hsu, from the
 Law Offices of Ray Hsu, seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiffs Jin
 Zhou and Qi He (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on grounds that there has been a
 breakdown in communication that has caused extreme difficulty to maintain
 representation.  Absent any
showing of prejudice, a motion to be relieved should be granted.  Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted. 
(People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.)  
Counsel’s motions comply with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. 
The Court notes that trial in this matter is not yet set and no
prejudice will result from granting this motion.  Accordingly, the unopposed motions to be
relieved are GRANTED and effective as of September 29, 2023.  Counsel is ordered to serve a copy of the
signed order on Plaintiffs and all parties who have appeared in this action. 
 
 
Dated
this 29th
day of September 2023       
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 