 Case Number:  24SMCV00948    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00948




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Nexus Healthcare Solutions; ALN Medical
  Management, LLC; and Health Prime International, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Innovative Medical Solutions, Inc.; Emerald
  Gardens Hospice, Inc. d/b/a Butterfly Hospice; Century City Endoscopy, LLC;
  and Vital Solutions Medical Group



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from a dispute over medical billing services
Defendants allegedly provided to Plaintiffs. 

 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Innovative Medical Solutions, Inc.
(“Innovative”); Emerald Greens Hospice, Inc. d/b/a Butterfly Hospice; Century
City Endoscopy, LLC; and Vital Solutions Medical Group (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed suit against Defendants Nexus Healthcare Solutions, Inc. (“Nexus”); ALN
Medical Management, LLC (“ALN”); and Health Prime International, LLC (“Health
Prime”) (together, “Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach
of contract; (2) breach of implied contract; (3) violation of Business &
Professions Code sections 17200 and 17500; (4) Unjust Enrichment; (5)
Declaratory Relief; (6) Fraud; and (7) Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
Defendants now demur to all seven causes of action on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e)
and (f), respectively.  Defendants also
move to strike the requests for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees from the
Complaint.
 
Plaintiffs oppose both motions and Defendants reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendants argue the Complaint is uncertain because it lumps together
three separate defendants, each of whom provided medical billing services to
Plaintiffs during different timeframes – Nexus from 2018 to 2020; ALN from 2020
to 2023; and Health Prime from 2023.  First,
this is a slight misstatement, as ALN is alleged to have acquired Nexus
in 2020, and Health Prime is alleged to have acquired ALN in 2023.  Thus, the allegations are not that the three
separate entities serviced Plaintiffs’ accounts during discrete timeframes, but
rather the Complaint alleges that in 2020 ALN became involved by virtue of its
acquisition of Nexus, and in 2023, Health Prime additionally became involved
when it acquired ALN.  
 
Second, while the Court agrees that the Complaint alleges all causes
of action against all Defendants, despite that each Defendant became involved
at different intervals, Defendants do not demonstrate that any portions of the Complaint
are so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted
or denied, or what claims are directed against them.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer based on
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                      
i.         
Statute
of Limitations
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’
Second, Fourth, Sixth, and Seventh causes of action against Nexus are barred by
the applicable statutes of limitation.  The
statute of limitations for breach of a contract not founded upon an instrument
of writing is two years.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 339.)  Quasi-contractual actions
to recover money obtained by fraud or mistake, are governed by the 3-year
statute of limitations for fraud.  (First
Nationwide Savings v. Perry (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1657, 1670.)
 
Because ALN acquired Nexus in
2020, Defendants argue that the medical billing services were no longer being
provided by Nexus after 2020.  Yet
Plaintiffs did not file suit until February 29, 2024.  Therefore, Defendants argue that the claims alleged
against ALN are barred by the statute of limitations.
 
The Court disagrees that ALN’s
acquisition of Nexus in 2020 necessarily means that Nexus ceased to be the
entity servicing Plaintiff’s accounts.  There
is no allegation that Nexus dissolved or otherwise stopped servicing
Plaintiffs’ account after ALN acquired it. 
In fact, the Complaint alleges that “a legacy Nexus employee” continued
servicing Plaintiffs’ account “for several months after the acquisition.”  (Compl. ¶ 37.)  
 
Thus, the Court cannot say,
based on the four corners of the Complaint, that these causes of action against
Nexus are necessarily time barred.
 
                                                    
ii.         
First
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Defendants argue that the
Plaintiffs other than Innovative cannot state the first cause of action for
breach of written contract against Defendants, because the contract at issue
was between only Innovative and Nexus.  
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
2.  In 2018, [Innovative] entered into a
contract with Nexus to provide medical billing and related services. The
parties agreed that each Plaintiff could and would submit billings under this
contract.
 
[…]
 
53. Plaintiff IMS and Defendant Nexus executed
the Agreement. Following execution of the Agreement, Nexus agreed that
Butterfly Hospice, CC Endoscopy, and Vital Solutions could also submit bills
pursuant to the Agreement. As a result, the Agreement was modified to include
Butterfly Hospice, CC Endoscopy, and Vital Solutions, in addition to IMS.
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 2, 53.)  Thus, Plaintiffs allege that
the written agreement between Innovative and Nexus was modified to encompass
all of Plaintiffs’ medical billing submissions. 
Whether the written agreement in fact governed the submissions by
the Plaintiffs other than Innovative is a factual question to be determined at
later stages of the litigation.
 
                                                  
iii.         
Fourth
Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action on the grounds that (1)
there is no valid cause of action for “Unjust Enrichment;” and (2) a
quasi-contract claim like unjust enrichment cannot lie where there is an actual
contract, as Plaintiffs have alleged in Causes of Action 1 and 2.
 
In support of Defendants’ first argument, they cite Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231 (hereafter Rutherford.)  In Rutherford, the court held that
although “unjust enrichment” is not a valid cause of action, it is synonymous
with restitution, and construed the claim for “unjust enrichment” as one for
“restitution.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, other courts have recognized unjust
enrichment as a valid cause of action. 
(See, e.g., Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723,
726 [explaining the elements of an unjust enrichment claim are “receipt of a
benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”]; Lyles
v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769 [same].)
 
In analyzing pleadings, Courts elevate substance over form.  (See Plumlee
v. Poag (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 541, 546 [“Courts under the reformed system
of procedure look to the substance of things rather than to form”].)  Thus, regardless of whether unjust enrichment
is a valid cause of action in its own right, or if it must be construed as a
cause of action for restitution, the Court declines to sustain Defendants’
demurrer on this basis, which would improperly elevate form over substance.
 
Regarding Defendants’ second argument, Plaintiffs are permitted to “plead in the alternative and make
inconsistent allegations.”  (Klein v.
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)  Thus, the Court declines to sustain
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ quasi-contractual cause of action merely
because Plaintiffs alternatively plead that a contract exists.
 
                                                  
iv.         
Fifth
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Defendants contend that the Fifth Cause of Action seeks Declaratory
Relief only as between Innovative and Health Prime, and therefore demurs as to
all other Plaintiffs and Defendants.
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
80. Defendant HPI contends that Plaintiffs owe it
approximately $400,000 in unpaid invoices. Plaintiffs dispute this amount, in
light of Defendants’ long-running breaches of contract, which have harmed
Plaintiffs in amounts far exceeding $400,000. 
 
81. Plaintiffs contend any purported obligation
for them to pay the approximately $400,000 demanded is excused by law, as
Defendants have failed to live up to their contractual obligations for years. 
 
82. Plaintiffs seek a declaration from the Court
that they do not owe Defendants the approximately $400,000 that Defendants seek
to collect, and that Defendants must cease any attempts to collect such
amounts, including that Defendants must halt any debt collection activities
they have initiated.
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 80-82.)
 
            Although the Complaint specifically
references Health Prime’s position that Plaintiffs owe approximately $400,000
in unpaid invoices, Plaintiffs allege the invoices are owed to all Defendants,
by virtue of Nexus providing the services, ALN’s acquisition of Nexus, and Health
Prime’s subsequent acquisition of ALN. 
Further, there is an actual controversy regarding whether all
Plaintiffs’ claims are covered by the agreement.  Therefore, as pled, declaratory relief is
generally proper as to the rights and responsibilities among all Plaintiffs and
Defendants.
 
                                                    
v.         
Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Action – Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
            The
Complaint alleges:
 
36. Specifically, in the lead up to the Nexus
acquisition and thereafter, ALN— including through its CEO, Tim Coan, who met
with Plaintiffs—made statements to Plaintiff s assuring them that the
transition would not impact the quality of services provided and that ALN was
well qualified and equipped to handle Plaintiffs billing needs.
 
[…]
 
84. As alleged herein, Defendants made numerous
false representations of material fact to Plaintiffs. Specifically, ALN,
including through its CEO, Tim Coan, assured Plaintiff s that there would be no
loss in quality of service as a result of the transition and that ALN was able
to provide satisfactory services to Plaintiffs. 
 
85. ALN made these statements knowing that they
were false and that ALN had not adequately prepared for the transition, nor did
it have the appropriate expertise to provide the services. 
 
86. If Plaintiffs had known ALN’s statements were
untrue, they would not have stayed on with ALN following the transition.
Plaintiffs reasonably relied on ALN’s statements. 
 
87. Plaintiffs have been harmed by their reliance
on Mr. Coan’s statements, including in the form of unpaid claims and monies
spent to try and correct ALN’s billing failures. 
 
88. As a result, Plaintiffs have been harmed by
Defendants’ misrepresentations in an amount to be proven at trial, but believed
to be in excess of $1,000,000.
 
[…]
 
91. Defendants made material misrepresentations
of fact, as set forth in the foregoing paragraphs, that the transitions from
Nexus to ALN and ALN to HPI, including the statements made by ALN’s CEO Tim
Coan, would not impact the quality of services provided to Plaintiffs. 
 
92. Defendants’ representations were false and
Defendants either knew them to be false, or made them without reasonable
grounds for believing they were true. 
 
93. Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Defendants’
misrepresentations, and stayed with ALN and HPI through the transitions. 
 
94. Plaintiffs were harmed by their reliance on
Defendants’ misrepresentations, in the form of unpaid claims, and resources
expended correcting Defendants’ failures, in an amount to be proven at trial,
but believed to be in excess of $1,000,000.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 36, 84-88, 91-94.)
 
Regarding Nexus and Health
Prime, Plaintiffs effectively concede that they do not presently have the facts
to adequately allege fraud or negligent misrepresentation with requisite
particularity: “As to HPI and Nexus, discovery will reveal precisely if
and when Mr. Coan was acting as an agent for them, or whether any of their
agents participated in the misrepresentations set forth herein.”  (Opp. at p. 15:8-10.)  Further, to the extent Mr. Coan’s alleged
statements preceded ALN’s acquisition of Nexus, it is unclear how Coan
could have been acting as Nexus’s agent. 
Similarly, to the extent Mr. Coan’s statements preceded Health Prime’s
acquisition of ALN, it is unclear how Coan could have been acting as Health
Prime’s agent when the statements were made.  Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer of
Health Prime and Nexus as to the sixth and seventh causes of action.
 
As for ALN, Plaintiffs
adequately allege the who (ALN’s CEO, Tim Coan); what (“the transition
would not impact the quality of services provided and that ALN was well
qualified and equipped to handle Plaintiffs billing needs”); when (“in the lead up to the Nexus
acquisition and thereafter”); and where/how (during meetings with Plaintiffs)
with requisite particularity.  To the
extent Plaintiffs have not alleged the specific dates of the meetings, ALN, and
specifically Mr. Coan, should already have that information by virtue of his
participation in those meetings.  Thus,
Plaintiffs have alleged the sixth and seventh causes of action against ALN with
requisite particularity for ALN to address those causes of action.
 
Finally, ALN argues these
statements were just non-actionable puffery, statement of opinion, and or
predictions as to future events.  In
support, ALN cites to Nibbi Bros., Inc. v. Home Fed. Sav. & Loan Assn.
(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1415, 1423 (hereafter Nibbi.)  The Court finds Nibbi distinguishable.  In Nibbi, the court held that a vague assertion
that the plaintiff would be paid for its work, which was not a promise to
personally pay plaintiff for the work, could only be construed at best as an
optimistic assessment that the developer would sustain continued financing,
which is a nonactionable expression of opinion. 
By contrast, here, Plaintiffs allege ALN’s CEO personally assured them
that the quality of services would not diminish once ALN acquired Nexus (and
therefore became ultimately responsible for providing those services), despite
knowing the sweeping changes ALN intended to make immediately following the
acquisition.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
ALN’s demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendants move to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.    
 
                                                      
i.         
Punitive
Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, as discussed above, Plaintiffs
have adequately alleged fraud against ALN, but not against Nexus or Health
Prime.  Further, because the fraudulent
misrepresentation is alleged to have been made by ALN’s CEO, Tim Coan, the
statements can be imputed to ALN for punitive damages purposes.  
 
            Therefore, the Court grants Nexus’s
and Health Prime’s motion to strike punitive damages, but denies ALN’s motion
to strike the punitive damages claims.
 
                                                    
ii.         
Attorneys’
Fees
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have provided no statutory or
contractual basis to recover attorneys’ fees. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that their requested injunctive relief
under their unfair competition law cause of action warrants attorneys’ fees
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 because it will provide a
significant benefit to the public or a large class of persons.  Section 1021.5 provides:
 
a court may award attorneys' fees to a successful
party against one or more opposing parties in any action which has resulted in
the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a
significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on
the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial
burden of private enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against
another public entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such
fees should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.)
 
Thus, private attorney general fees are appropriate only when a significant
benefit is conferred on the public or a large class of persons and the costs of
litigating the issue greatly burdens the plaintiff out of proportion to his
individual stake in the matter.  (Woodland
Hills Residents Assn., Inc. v. City Council (1979) 23 Cal.3d 917, 941
(hereafter Woodland).)  The Court
finds on the allegations of the Complaint that these requirements are not
satisfied here.
 
First, the injunctive relief sought – that Defendants stop falsely
advertising their services as being better than they actually are – does not
implicate an important right likely to impact a large class of persons.  Rather, the injunction would primarily impact
only this particular company’s existing and prospective clients.  “Of course, the public always has a
significant interest in seeing that legal strictures are properly enforced and
thus, in a real sense, the public always derives a ‘benefit’ when illegal
private or public conduct is rectified.” (Woodland, supra, 23 Cal.3d at p.
939.)  But “the Legislature did not
intend to authorize an award of attorney fees in every case involving a
statutory violation.”  (Ibid.)  Permitting attorneys’ fees in every case
where a company is alleged to have falsely advertised an aspect of its services
would be inconsistent with the Legislature’s intent to shift fees only in those
cases conferring a “significant” benefit to a large class of persons.  
 
Second, there is no indication that Plaintiffs’ individual financial
stake in this matter is so vastly outweighed by the cost of vindicating their rights
on behalf of the public at large that justice requires fee shifting.  To the contrary, Plaintiffs seek $1 million
in damages (and Defendants allegedly seek $400,000 in unpaid invoices.)  Thus, Plaintiffs’ legal fees are unlikely to outweigh
Plaintiffs’ personal financial stake so vastly in litigating this matter that
justice requires fee shifting to encourage Plaintiffs to continue to seek
vindication of important public rights.
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike the claims
for attorneys’ fees asserted in the Complaint.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, although Plaintiffs generally request that leave be granted,
they do not identify any additional facts they could add to the complaint to
cure the identified deficiencies.  In
fact, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have tacitly conceded that they do not
have any additional facts to allege the fraud and negligent misrepresentation
causes of action against Nexus or Health Prime unless and until discovery reveals
them.   
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiffs leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Nexus’s and Health Prime’s
demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action for fraud and negligent
misrepresentation, respectively, without leave to amend.  The Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer in
all other respects.
 
Further, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendants’
motion to strike.  The Court strikes Plaintiffs’
request for attorneys’ fees in its entirety, and strikes Plaintiffs’ request
for punitive damages as to Nexus and Health Prime only without leave to amend.  The Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike
punitive damages alleged against ALN.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Complaint on or before July 3, 2024. 

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
DATED:  June 12, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court