 Case Number:  24SMCV00527    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00527




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Alex Borden, Personal Representative of the
  Estate of Mark Jarmus, deceased




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff RMO LLP



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning unpaid legal fees for
services rendered to and at the behest of now-deceased Mark Jarmus, as Trustee
of the Leslie Jarmus Family Trust.  From January
25, 2017 through October 10, 2022, Plaintiff RMO LLP (“Plaintiff”) provided
legal representation to Mark Jarmus as Successor Trustee of the Leslie Jarmus
Family Trust in litigation involving Mark Jarmus’s administration of the trust,
which is still currently pending as Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
BP173009 (“Leslie Jarmus Trust Matter”). 
(Compl. ¶¶ 1, 10.)  That case also
involves claims against Mark Jarmus in his individual capacity, stemming from
allegations that he took funds from the Trust in bad faith.  (Compl. ¶ 13.)  Plaintiff has since withdrawn as counsel in
that matter.  (Compl. ¶ 24.)
 
Plaintiff alleges substantial legal fees were incurred that remain
outstanding.  (Compl. ¶ 1.)  On February 3, 2023, Mark Jarmus (“Jarmus”)
died.  (Compl. ¶¶ 3, 26.)  On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a creditor
claim in the probate matter of Mark Jarmus’ estate.  On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
action against Mark Jarmus’ estate following the failure to approve creditor’s
claim.
 
Defendant Alex Borden, Personal Representative of the Estate of Jark
Jarmus, deceased (“Defendant”) demurs to the complaint under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10 on the following grounds:  (i) this Court lacks jurisdiction pursuant to subdivision
(a); (ii) there is another action pending between the same parties on the same
causes of action pursuant to subdivision (c); (iii) there is a defect or
misjoinder of parties pursuant to subdivision (d); the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to subdivision (e);
and the complaint is uncertain pursuant to subdivision (f).
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Id. at
subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Here, the Declaration of Alex R. Borden provides:
 
2. On April 9, 2024, I filed a Declaration of
Demurring Party in Support of Automatic Extension. 
 
3. At the time the Declaration was filed, I was
attempting to meet and confer with Plaintiff, RMO LLP, as to why their
Complaint on Claim Deemed Rejected (“Complaint”) was subject to demurrer. 
 
4. Our further efforts to meet and confer by
email resulted in an impasse, and an agreement resolving my objections could
not be reached.
 
(Borden
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  However, according to
Plaintiff’s counsel, Phillip Szachowicz, 
 
2. On April 8, 2024, I met and conferred
telephonically with Defendant Alex Borden, as personal representative of the
Estate of Mark Jarmus, concerning the potential demurrer Mr. Borden was
contemplating filing in connection with RMO’s Complaint. During that call, Mr.
Borden raised two main issues: (1) that he did not believe there were grounds
to pursue the complaint because Mark Jarmus did not sign the engagement
agreement with RMO in his individual capacity and (2) that he did not believe
the Notice of Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration had been served on Mr. Jarmus.
During that call, I indicated to Mr. Borden that the notice had gone out and
that I would forward him a copy. He stated he would review it and then follow
back up once he had further considered our discussions. 
 
3. Following that teleconference, I emailed Mr.
Borden a copy of the Notice of Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration that was
previously served on Mr. Jarmus after RMO withdrew as his counsel. A true and
accurate copy of the April 8, 2024 email is attached as Exhibit A. 
 
4. On April 9, 2024, I received Mr. Borden’s
declaration requesting an automatic extension of the deadline to file a
demurrer based on the ongoing meet and confer efforts. 
 
5. On May 10, 2024, I received Mr. Borden’s
demurrer to RMO’s Complaint. No other meet and confer efforts occurred between
April 8, 2024 and May 10, 2024.
 
(Szachowicz
Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
            Specifically, Plaintiff’s counsel
contends that the demurrer itself raises issues not raised in the parties’ meet
and confer, and requests an opportunity to amend its complaint in light of the
new arguments.  (Opposition at p.
7.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that
Defendant’s counsel did not adequately meet and confer on all grounds for the
demurrer before filing, and that further meet and confer efforts may be
fruitful.  
 
As such, the Court continues the hearing on Defendant’s demurrer to August
6, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 to enable the parties to properly meet
and confer and amend the pleadings, if appropriate.  No further briefing will be accepted in
connection with the currently pending demurrer, but the parties shall file
declarations regarding their further meet and confer efforts on or before July
30, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 12, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court