  Case Number:  23SMCV00780    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
 RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00780




MOTIONS


Motions to Compel Further Responses to: 
·      
  Special Interrogatories, Set 1
·      
  Requests for Production, Set 1




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jack Richard Sacane




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant General Motors LLC



 
Plaintiff Jack Richard Sacane (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) for 1) 1. Fraud Concealment and
Misrepresentation; 2. Negligent Misrepresentation 3. Business & Professions
Code §17200 4. Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Express Warranty;
5. Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; 6.
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §1793.2(b).    
 
Plaintiff moves the Court for orders compelling Defendant serve
further responses to the following discovery requests:  
 
1.     Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”), Set 1, Propounded to Defendant
·      
Propounded: 
                                      October 13, 2023
·      
Responses:                                          November 13, 2023
·      
Motion Filed: 
                                    April 15, 2024

 
2.     Requests
For Production (“RFP”), Set 1, Propounded to Defendant
·      
Propounded: 
                                      October 13, 2023
·      
Responses:                                          November 13, 2023
·      
Production of Documents:                  December 13,
2023
·      
Supplemental Production:                  February 20,
2024
·      
Motion Filed: 
                                    April 15, 2024
 
            Defendant has filed oppositions to
the motions and Plaintiff replies.  
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.    
Timeliness
of Motions 
 
            A notice of motion to compel further
responses must be “given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which” the parties have agreed in writing.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c),
2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file
such a motion within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to
compel further responses.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff filed the motions on the date set forth above.  Defendant has not objected to the timeliness
of the motions.  
 
2.    
Meet and
Confer
 
            A motion to compel must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1), 2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)  A meet and confer declaration must state
facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented in the motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
 
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue. This rule is designed to encourage the parties to work out their
differences informally so as to avoid the necessity of a formal order.  . . . 
This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and reduce the
unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion of
informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.”  (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1434-1435 [cleaned  up].)  To
comply, “a reasonable and good-faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with [opposing counsel].  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Id.
at p. 1439; see also Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294
[to satisfy the attempt at informal resolution required in section 2016.040
opposing parties must do more than try to persuade each other of their
errors].)  In short, the Discovery Act
“requires that there be a serious effort at negotiation and informal
resolution.”  (Townsend v. Superior Court, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.)
 
            To that end, trial courts are
entrusted with discretion and judgment to determine the necessary effort
required to satisfy the requirement of an informal resolution. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433.)  In determining if parties have satisfied Section
2016.040, judges may consider “the history of the litigation, the nature of the
interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of
discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be
relevant.” (Id. at pp. 431-432 [holding that the trial court was correct
in determining that sending a letter with oppositions was an insufficient
attempt at an informal resolution].)  In
sum, meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters to each
other stating each party’s respective positions. 
 
            Here, as set forth in the
Declaration of Priscilla Le (“Le”), counsel for Plaintiff, Plaintiff contends he
engaged in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of the
issues presented in the motions.  In
particular, Le sent an initial meet and confer letter to Defendant on January
2, 2024 to which Defendant responded on January 11, 2024.  (See Declaration of Priscilla Le, ¶¶  21-22, Exhibits G & H.)  Thereafter, the parties executed a Protective
Order.  (Id. at ¶¶ 23, Exhibit
I.)  Following the execution of the
protective order, Le sent another meet and confer letter on January 19, 2024 to
which Defendant replied on January 26.  (Id.
at ¶¶  24-25, Exhibits J & K.)  After that correspondence exchange, Defendant
served a supplemental production of documents to Plaintiff on February 20,
2024.  (Id. at ¶ 31, Exhibit
Q.)  
 
On March 19, 2024, the Court held an Informal Discovery Conference
with the parties and advised the parties to continue their meet and confer
efforts to resolve the issues informally. 
(See Declaration of Priscilla Le, ¶ 33.) 
To that end, Le sent emails on March 26, April 2 and April 5 to counsel
for Defendant to schedule a conference call to resolve the discovery issues.  Counsel for Defendant did not respond to the
emails.  (Id. at ¶¶ 34-37,
Exhibits S, T, U & V.)   
 
            In opposition to the motions,
Defendant advances the Declaration of Claudia Gavrilescu (“Gavrilescu”) who did
not sign her declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State
of California, and therefore the Court finds that the declaration has no
evidentiary value.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2015.5)  Notwithstanding, Gavrilescu does
not provide any information challenging Le’s statements regarding Plaintiff’s
meet and confer efforts.  (See
Declaration of Claudia Gavrilescu, ¶¶ 2-7.) 

            
            Upon consideration of the
declarations of counsel for Plaintiff and Defendant, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has attempted in good faith to informally resolve the discovery issues with Defendant
before filing the motions as required by the Discovery Act.       
 
3.    
Separate
Statement 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff filed separate
statements related to the motions which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
Analysis
            
1.    
DISCOVERY – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 
            “Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Where a party objects, or responds
inadequately, to discovery requests, a motion lies to compel further responses,
and that party has the burden to justify the objections or inadequate responses.
(Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a) [motion to
compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to interrogatories”],
2031.310, subd. (a) [motion to compel further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a
response to a demand for inspection”], 2033.290, subd. (a) [motion to compel
further responses lies “[o]n receipt of a response to requests for
admissions”].)  Further, “a trial court's
determination of a motion to compel discovery is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.  However, when the facts
asserted in support of and in opposition to the motion are in conflict, the
trial court's factual findings will be upheld if they are supported by
substantial evidence.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [cleaned up].) 
 
            With
respect to interrogatories, the Discovery Act requires as follows:  
            
Each answer in a response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits. 
If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered
to the extent possible.  If the
responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully
to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and
good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subds.
(a)-(c).)  Similarly, regarding requests
for production of documents or other items, the Discovery Act provides as
follows:
 
The party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to
each item or category of item by any of the following:  (1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the
date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related
activities.  (2) A representation that
the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of item.  (3) An objection to the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  “A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.230.)
 
            Further,
regarding requests for admission, the Discovery Act provides as follows:
 
(a) Each answer in a response to requests for
admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) Each answer shall: (1) Admit so much of the
matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request
itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party. (2) Deny
so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue.  (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in
the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient
information or knowledge.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subds.
(a)-(b).)  And “[i]f a responding party
gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all
or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a
reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been
made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to
enable that party to admit the matter.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (c).)  
 
2.     OBJECTIONS
– PLAINTIFF
 
a.    
BURDENSOME
 
            “The
objection based upon burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum
of work required, while to support an objection of oppression there must be
some showing either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the
ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  (West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  The
California Supreme Court further noted that 
“[s]ome burden is inherent in all demands for discovery.  The objection of burden is valid only when
that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.” (Id. at p.
418.)   
 
b.    
TRADE SECRETS
 
            “If he or his agent or employee
claims the privilege, the owner of a trade secret has a privilege to refuse to
disclose the secret, and to prevent another from disclosing it, if the
allowance of the privilege will not tend to conceal fraud or otherwise work
injustice.”  (Evid. Code, § 1060.)  The Trade Secrets Privilege “[i]s granted so
that secret information essential to the continued operation of a business or
industry may be afforded some measure of protection against unnecessary
disclosure. Thus, the privilege prevents the use of the witness' duty to
testify as the means for injuring an otherwise profitable business where more
important interests will not be jeopardized. 
. . .  Therefore, the privilege
exists under this section only if its application will not tend to conceal
fraud or otherwise work injustice.” 
(Cal. Law. Revision Com. com., West’s Ann. Evid. Code foll. § 1060.)  
 
            “[A] court is required to order
disclosure of a trade secret unless, after balancing the interests of both
sides, it concludes that under the particular circumstances of the case, no
fraud or injustice would result from denying disclosure. What is more, in the
balancing process the court must necessarily consider the protection afforded
the holder of the privilege by a protective order as well as any less intrusive
alternatives to disclosure proposed by the parties.”  (Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1393 (hereafter Bridgestone).)  In Bridgestone, Lydia Rios was
killed in an auto accident allegedly caused by the failure of a tire.  Plaintiffs, the survivors, sought in
discovery manufacturing specifications for the tire involved in the accident
and other tires of the same type and size. 
The defendant, Bridgestone/Firestone, objected to the discovery requests
on the grounds that the production of the information would disclose its trade
secrets.  In reversing the trial court in
favor of Bridgestone, the appellate court held: 

 
[T]he party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing its
existence. Thereafter, the party seeking discovery must make a prima facie,
particularized showing that the information sought is relevant and necessary to
the proof of, or defense against, a material element of one or more causes of
action presented in the case, and that it is reasonable to conclude that the
information sought is essential to a fair resolution of the lawsuit. It is then
up to the holder of the privilege to demonstrate any claimed disadvantages of a
protective order. Either party may propose or oppose less intrusive
alternatives to disclosure of the trade secret, but the burden is upon the
trade secret claimant to demonstrate that an alternative to disclosure will not
be unduly burdensome to the opposing side and that it will maintain the same
fair balance in the litigation that would have been achieved by disclosure.
 
(Bridgestone,
supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1393 [cleaned up].)  
 
c.     
ATORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE
 
            Per Evidence Code section 954,
“[t]he client, whether or not a party, has a privilege to refuse to disclose,
and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication between
client and lawyer if the privilege is claimed by:  (a) The holder of the privilege; (b) A person
who is authorized to claim the privilege by the holder of the privilege; or (c)
The person who was the lawyer at the time of the confidential communication,
but such person may not claim the privilege if there is no holder of the
privilege in existence or if he is otherwise instructed by a person authorized
to permit disclosure.”  (Evid. Code, §
954.)  And “while attorney-client
communications are presumed to be confidential, the party claiming the
attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the burden of showing that
the communication sought to be suppressed falls within the parameters of the
privilege.”  (Scripps Health v.
Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533 [cleaned up].)
            
d.     ATTORNEY
WORK PRODUCT DOCTRINE
 
            The attorney work product doctrine
is codified under Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.010 et seq.  It is the policy of the state to do both of
the following:
 
(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare
cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to
prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but
the unfavorable aspects of those cases.
 
(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage
of their adversary's industry and efforts.
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2018.020, 2018.030.) 
“Absolute protection is afforded to writings that reflect an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.  All other work product receives qualified
protection; such material is not discoverable unless the court determines that
denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in
preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an injustice.”  (Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54
Cal.4th 480, 485 [cleaned up].)  Also attorneys
are the holders of the “work product privilege.”  (See Curtis v. Superior Court (2021)
62 Cal.App.5th 453, 468 [“The work product privilege is held by the attorney,
not the client”].)  
 
            In opposing the motions, Defendant has
the initial burden to establish that the information or documents responsive to
the SROG or RFP are privileged or the work products of counsel, warranting
protection from disclosure.  Foremost, Defendant
has not produced a privilege log which identifies  responsive documents that are being withheld
because of the attorney-client privilege, attorney-work product doctrine or the
trade secrets doctrine.  Equally
important, in opposing the motions, Defendant has failed to proffer sufficient,
competent evidence to establish that the attorney-work product doctrine, attorney-client
privilege or trade secrets doctrine thwarts Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain
information or documents responsive to the SROG and RFP.  In particular, as noted above, Gavrilescu’s
declaration has no evidentiary value. 
Nevertheless, the Court finds that Gavrilescu does not proffer a proper
foundation for the statements set forth in paragraphs 8-14 of her declaration,
especially when she is not an officer, director or managing agent of
Defendant.     
 
            In
addition, with respect to the burdensome objection, the Court finds that Defendant
has failed to provide sufficient, competent evidence to establish the quantum
of work required.  As such, without the
requisite proof, Defendant cannot rely upon the burdensome objection.  
 
            In short, the Court finds that Defendant’s
objections on the grounds of burdensome, trade secrets doctrine, attorney-client
privilege and attorney-work product doctrine are unsubstantiated.  Nevertheless, turning to the issue of whether
Defendant has provided code compliant responses to the SROG and RFP, in
conjunction with Defendant’s other objections, the Court rules as set forth
below.
 
3.     RULINGS
 
            Based upon the points and
authorities noted above, the Court rules as follows:
 
a.     SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES
 
·      
SROG No. 14: 
    GRANTED
·      
SROG No. 20:      DENIED – (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous &
Overbroad)
·      
SROG No. 23: 
    DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
SROG No. 25: 
    DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
SROG No. 26:      GRANTED

·      
SROG No. 39: 
    GRANTED
·      
SROG No. 41: 
    DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
SROG No. 43: 
    GRANTED
 
b.     REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
·      
RFP No. 28:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 29: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 37:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 38: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 39:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 40: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 41:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 42: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 43:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 44: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 45:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 46: 
        GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 47:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 48:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 49: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 50:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 51: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 52:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 53: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 54:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 55: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 56:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 57: 
        GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 58:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 59: 
        GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 60:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 77: 
        GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 78:          DENIED
– (Objections to the form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 79: 
        DENIED – (Objections to the
form – Vague, Ambiguous & Overbroad)
·      
RFP No. 80: 
        GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 81:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 82:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 83:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 84:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 85:          GRANTED
·      
RFP No. 86:          GRANTED
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses and/or production of documents to the SROG and RFP per Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310.  Likewise, the Court orders Defendant to serve
further verified, code compliant responses, and to produce responsive documents,
to the SROG and RFP, as noted above, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s
orders.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
June 12, 2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court
 
 