 Case Number:  22AHCV00268    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER DENYING CROSS-DEFENDANT CITIBANK’S MOTION FOR STAYI.        INTRODUCTION            Cross-Defendant  Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank") moves for an order staying the  proceedings on Cross-Complainant Edith Enterprise, LTD’s ("Edith")  claims alleged in the Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”). In the TACC,  Edith brings claims against Citibank for alleged wrongful conduct, asserting  causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) conversion, (3) negligence,  (4) fraudulent transfer, (5) violations of California’s Unfair Practices Act,  (6) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (7)  financial elder abuse, (8) violations of the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and  (9) Common Count.  Based on the Court’s  ruling on September 18, 2024, only the 1st, 6th and 9th  causes of action remain.   Citibank  seeks to stay the proceedings on the grounds that Edith, a Nevada limited  liability company, transacted intrastate business in California without  obtaining the required certificate of registration from the California  Secretary of State, as mandated by Corporations Code section 17708.07(a).  Citibank argues that under California law, Edith cannot maintain its  cross-claims until it complies with the registration requirements. Accordingly,  Citibank requests that the Court stay the proceedings until Edith obtains the  required certificate and set a date by which the stay may be lifted, or  alternatively, dismiss the TACC if Edith fails to comply.   Opposition Edith filed its opposition on  September 9, 2024.              II.      LEGAL  STANDARD “Trial  courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests  of¿ justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” Freiberg v. City of  Mission Viejo(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489. Trial judges have inherent  powers to manage and fashion procedures to control litigation to insure the  orderly administration of justice. Cottle v. Superior Court (1992) 3  Cal.App.4th 1367, 1376-79; see also CCP §§ 128(a)(3) and (a)(5). Corporations Code Section  17708.07 subdivision (a)-(b) provides:  (a)  A foreign limited liability company transacting intrastate business in this  state shall not maintain an action or proceeding in this state unless it has a  certificate of registration to transact intrastate business in this  state.  (b)  The failure of a foreign limited liability company to have a certificate of  registration to transact intrastate business in this state does not prevent the  foreign limited liability company from defending an action or proceeding in  this state.    III.     ANALYSIS Citibank  argues that this matter should be stayed because Edith is a Nevada limited  liability company (“LLC”) that transacted intrastate business in California  without obtaining the required certificate of registration from the California  Secretary of State, as mandated by Corporations Code sections 17708.02 and  17708.07(a). Under Corporations Code section 17708.07(a), a foreign LLC that  transacts intrastate business in California may "file" but not  "maintain" an action in the state until it obtains a certificate of  registration. (Motion p. 3.) Citibank argues that because Edith has not  obtained this certificate, it should not be permitted to pursue its  cross-claims in the TACC.  Citibank  argues that it was unaware of the extent of Edith’s business dealings in  California until the deposition of Edith’s Person Most Knowledgeable, Helen  Young, on August 13, 2024, which revealed the scope of Edith’s intrastate  business operations. (Motion p. 7.) Citibank alleges that Edith’s claims arise  directly from its intrastate business activities, specifically an alleged  $31,396 debit from Edith’s Citibank account and the closure of that account,  which was tied to Edith’s sales of auto brake discs in California. Edith  maintained a Citibank business account ending in 8207, into which payments for  its California sales were deposited, and used this account to repay a business  line of credit. Edith operated out of a home in Monterey Park, California,  where it imported and sold auto brake discs to California wholesalers. (Motion  p. 6.) Citibank  also contends it was unaware of Edith’s significant business dealings in  California until the deposition of Edith’s Person Most Knowledgeable on August  13, 2024, which revealed the extent of Edith’s intrastate business operations.  (Motion p. 7) Citibank also alleges that Edith’s claims arise directly from its  intrastate business activities in California. Specifically, Citibank points to  the alleged $31,396 debit from Edith's Citibank account and the closure of that  account, which was linked to Edith’s sales of auto brake discs in California.  Edith maintained a Citibank business account ending in 8207, into which  payments for its California sales were deposited, and used this account to  repay a business line of credit, further evidencing its intrastate activities  and Edith operated out of a home in Monterey Park, California, where it  imported and sold auto brake discs to California wholesalers (Motion p. 6). Corporations  Code section 17708.03(b) provides an exception to the registration requirement  for foreign LLCs if they are involved in maintaining or defending an action, securing,  or collecting debts or transacting business in interstate commerce. However,  this carve out applies in cases where the foreign LLC’s purpose is collecting  debt or enforcing judgment. Edith’s actions do not fall within this narrow  exception because Edith is not merely seeking debt collection, rather her  claims are broader and include breach of contract and negligence. These  activities go beyond debt collection and constitute intrastate business,  triggering the requirement of registration under §17708.07(a). In  opposition, Edith argues that it has not entered into repeated and successive  business transactions in the state of California since it closed its business  in November 2020.  In support, Edith  submits the declaration of Helen Young, who avers that “Edith was effectively  forced to close its business in November 2020 because Citibank emptied Edith’s  checking account, which Edith was required to maintain as its primary business  account and to pay its loan with Citibank. Because Edith is out of business,  Edith did not enter into repeated and  successive transactions of business in California since 2020.”  Nothing in the declaration of Mr. Kenney, or  the attached transcript of Young’s deposition testimony, rebuts this.  Given these facts, and notwithstanding Corporations  Code sections 17708.02 and 17708.07(a), Edith may proceed on its  cross-complaint, which was filed in 2023. Therefore, Citibank’s Motion for a Stay of Proceedings  is denied.           IV.     CONCLUSION The Court  DENIES Citibank’s Motion for a Stay of Proceedings. As prevailing party, Plaintiff is to give notice.   Dated: October 18, 2024                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES   JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                               