  Case Number:  20GDCV00304    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING  DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHOUT LEACVE TO AMEND AND  DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE AS MOOTI.         INTRODUCTION This action arises from Plaintiff  Anahid Cholakian ("Plaintiff") sustaining water damage to her home  located at 250 West Fairview Avenue, Apartment 302, Glendale, California 91202.  On March 6, 2020, Plaintiff filed her initial complaint, alleging negligence  and related causes of action against several parties. On March 29, 2024,  Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint ("FAC"), adding  defendants. On August 2, 2024, the Court held a  hearing on Defendant 360 Remodeling, Inc. and Defendant Patrick Havani's  (collectively “Defendants”) demurrer to the FAC, which was sustained with leave  to amend. Following the Court’s order, Plaintiff filed her Second Amended  Complaint ("SAC") on August 22, 2024, stating claims of negligence,  negligent hiring, and negligent entrustment against Defendants. On September 9, 2024, Defendants  filed a Demurrer with a Motion to Strike directed at the SAC, which is now  before the Court¿.    Meet and Confer Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the  party who filed the pleading at least five days before the responsive pleading  is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video conference with the  aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer. Additionally, the  demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and confer  efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to meet and confer is  not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer or granting or  denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4), 435.5,  subd. (a)(4).) Here, Defense counsel sent a  meet-and-confer letter via email on August 30, 2024. On September 6, 2024, at  11:00 AM, the parties met and conferred in good faith. Accordingly, the Court  finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet-and-confer requirement under Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.41. MOVING PARTY’S ARGUMENT Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s  entire SAC. They argue that all claims against them in the SAC are time-barred  under Code of Civil Procedure section 338(b), as more than three years have  passed since the alleged water damage occurred on June 21, 2019.They assert  that Plaintiff failed to exercise reasonable diligence in discovering their  involvement and cannot rely on the delayed discovery rule. Additionally,  Defendants argue that the SAC does not sufficiently plead facts showing the  time and manner of discovery or Plaintiff’s inability to discover their  identities earlier. OPPOSITION             No  Opposition has been filed as of 10/11/24. Judicial Notice The Court GRANTS Defendants  request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.) II.        LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal  sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”  they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be  accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.)  Pleadings are to be broadly  construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the  facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)  provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for  uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible  a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,  Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  An action for injury to real  property is subject to a three-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil  Procedure section 338(b). In tort cases, the statute of limitations generally  begins to run upon the occurrence of the last essential event, even if the  plaintiff is unaware of the cause of action. (Wilshire Westwood Associates  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 732, 739). In the case of  injury to property, the injury is considered to be to the property itself, not  the property owner (Ibid.) The discovery rule postpones the  accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to  discover, the cause of action (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005)  35 Cal.4th 797, 807). Under the rule, a plaintiff has reason to discover a  cause of action when they have reason to suspect a factual basis for its  elements. Suspicion of wrongdoing, coupled with knowledge of any remaining  elements, triggers the statute of limitations period (Ibid.). The  discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have,  inquiry notice of the cause of action (Ibid.). However, Plaintiff must  specifically plead facts showing (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2)  the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. The  burden is on the plaintiff to show diligence, and conclusory allegations will  not withstand demurrer (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., supra,  35 Cal.4th at p. 808).   III.      ANALYSIS In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that  the delay in naming Defendants was due to several factors, including being  unaware of 360 Remodeling, Inc.'s involvement until June 6, 2023, when Fairview  Gardens Community Association named Defendant 360 as a cross-defendant (SAC ¶  51). Plaintiff further claims that the defaults entered against Legend and  Fairview halted the need for further discovery, as Plaintiff was pursuing  default judgments against those parties (SAC ¶ 52). Upon learning about  Defendant 360’s involvement, Plaintiff asserts that they acted diligently by  amending the complaint on September 7, 2023, to include Defendant 360 as a  defendant. Plaintiff cites these factors—default judgments, the lack of  discovery during the interim period, and their late discovery of 360  Remodeling’s role—as reasons for not knowing about Defendants' potential  liability sooner. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s  claims are time barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 338(b), which  imposes a three-year statute of limitations for property damage claims.  Defendants assert that Plaintiff failed to exercise reasonable diligence in  discovering their involvement within the statutory period, pointing to  significant gaps in Plaintiff's litigation activity. Specifically, Defendants  highlight the period after Plaintiff settled with Farmers Insurance in September  2021, during which Plaintiff did not serve any discovery requests until  September 21, 2023, despite the availability of discovery tools to inquire  about other their identities as potential Defendants. (Demurrer p. 3; SAC ¶¶  22-26) Defendants argue this delay does not meet the standard of reasonable  diligence required.  Defendants also point out that  Plaintiff’s SAC states that she initially sued the HOA, Legend Construction and  Farmers Insurance in March 2020 and settled with Farmers Insurance in September  2021. However, the SAC does not contain any allegations regarding Plaintiff’s  diligence during the 18-month period following the settlement with Farmers  Insurance. During this period, Defendants argue Plaintiff took no steps to  discover potentially liable parties.  Defendants contend that this  significant delay cannot reasonably be considered diligent under the law.  (Gholian Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. A; Demurrer p. 3). Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s  claims are barred, as Plaintiff has failed to meet the burden required to apply  the delayed discovery rule. The Court finds that Plaintiff has  not met the burden of pleading the delayed discovery rule with sufficient  particularity. To rely on the delayed discovery rule, Plaintiff must  specifically allege (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability  to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. The SAC lacks  detailed allegations regarding Plaintiff’s efforts to discover 360 Remodeling’s  involvement prior to June 2023. The prolonged inactivity in pursuing discovery  demonstrates a failure to act diligently. For instance, the SAC does not  contain any allegations regarding Plaintiff’s diligence during the 18-month  period following the settlement with Farmers Insurance in September 2021.  Additionally, Plaintiff has not demonstrated or sufficiently pleaded reasonable  diligence in the gap between the HOA’s answer in December 2022 and the filing  of the cross-complaint naming 360 Remodeling in June 2023. Given these  deficiencies, the Court concludes that the statute of limitations under Code of  Civil Procedure section 338(b) bars Plaintiff's claims.  On August 2, 2024, this Court sustained  Defendant 360’s previous demurrer with the following language:   “Given that  Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts in the FAC to invoke the delayed  discovery rule, the Court finds that the FAC is barred on its face as to  Defendant 360. Due to the  Court’s analysis as to the statute of limitations issue above, such analysis is dispositive of  the demurrer before the                 Court. The Court does not find that there is no  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. The Court therefore SUSTAINS               the demurrer of Defendant 360 to the first, second, and third causes of action  in the FAC with leave to amend.”                In light of the foregoing, Defendants’ current demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is sustained WITHOUT leave to amend.  Motion to Strike The court may, upon a motion, or at  any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike  are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not  been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds  for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of  judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)  Defendants moves to strike the  allegations of the SAC on the grounds that the allegations asserted against it  are barred by the statute of limitations. Given that the Court has sustained  the demurrer to the SAC without leave to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to  strike as MOOT.   IV.       ORDER             The Court SUSTAINS  the demurrer to the SAC without leave to amend.             Defendants  motion to strike is denied as moot.             Defendants  are to give notice.    Dated: October 18, 2024                                                                                          JARED D. MOSES                 JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 