 Case Number:  24NNCV01022    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING  PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SEVERI.        INTRODUCTION           On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff SRS  Distribution, Inc. dba JB Wholesale Roofing and Building Supply  ("Plaintiff") initiated this action against Defendants Clean  Initiative, LLC ("Clean Initiative") and Juan Pablo Quintero  (“Quintero”) alleging Breach of Contract – Promissory Note and Common Counts –  Account Stated. The action arises from a promissory note executed on February  9, 2024, with a principal amount of $166,816.82. Defendants failed to make the  required payments under the terms of the note. Clean Initiative was served with the summons and  complaint on May 17, 2024, but failed to respond, resulting in an entry of  default on July 11, 2024. Quintero filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy protection  on June 7, 2024, triggering an automatic stay of proceedings against him under  federal bankruptcy law. Plaintiff now seeks to sever Clean Initiative from the  action to pursue a default judgment while the case against Quintero remains  stayed pending the resolution of his bankruptcy proceedings. II.      LEGAL  STANDARD           Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision  (b): “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when  separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a  separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in  a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of  action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the  Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”              “Whether there shall be a severance and separate trials on  issues in a single action is a matter within the discretion of the trial court,  whose ruling will not be disturbed on appeal absent a manifest abuse of  discretion.” (Downey Savings & Loan Assn. v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co.  (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1072, 1086.)            III.     ANALYSIS           Plaintiff moves for severance on the grounds that Clean  Initiative is in default, and severing the claims against it would enable  Plaintiff to pursue a default judgment without being prejudiced by the  automatic bankruptcy stay affecting Quintero. Plaintiff contends that if the  claims are not severed, it would suffer undue prejudice in one of two ways:  first, Plaintiff would face unnecessary delay, as it would be forced to wait  until Quintero's bankruptcy proceedings are resolved before it can enforce its  rights against Clean Initiative. Second, if judgment is entered against Clean  Initiative now without an order severing the claims, Plaintiff may be precluded  from prosecuting its claims against Quintero due to the "one final  judgment rule." (La Mendola Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff  argues that severing the claims will allow it to proceed with a default  judgment against Clean Initiative while avoiding any potential complications  arising from Quintero's bankruptcy stay. The  Court agrees with Plaintiff and finds that severance is appropriate under these  circumstances. Clean Initiative has defaulted and Plaintiff is entitled to  pursue a separate judgment against this Defendant. The automatic stay as to  Quintero should not delay Plaintiff’s ability to obtain relief from Clean  Initiative. Severance will allow Plaintiff to obtain a several judgments  against Clean Initiative while maintaining the stay as to Quintero. Furthermore,  the Court finds that severance will not prejudice any of the parties and will  promote judicial economy by allowing Plaintiff to proceed against Clean  Initiative without waiting for the resolution of Quintero's bankruptcy  proceeding.   IV.     ORDER           Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to sever is  GRANTED.  Plaintiff  is to give notice.              Dated:  October 18, 2024                                                                                                                                                   JARED  D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                      