 Case Number:  24STCV01427    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Shuolin Wen,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV01427




 
Vs.
 
 


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Qingzhou Zhu, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 31, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(3) Demurrers to Second Amended
Complaint and Motion to Strike
 
T/R:     SKYBOX’S DEMURRER TO COUNT 22 IS
OVERRULED. THE DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING CLAIMS IS SUSTAINED. THE MOTION TO
STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
WONG AND ZHANG’S DEMURRERS ARE
SUSTAINED.
 
LA FRUITY’S DEMURRER TO CLAIMS 16, 17
AND 18 ARE OVERRULED. THE DEMURRER TO THE REMAINING CLAIMS IS SUSTAINED. 
 
CHASE BANK’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A THIRD
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND
SERVE RESPONSES WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies. 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Shuolin Wen sued defendants
Qingzhou Zhu, Fangshuo Guo, Guoqiang Zhu, Sisley Wong, Xiaodan Zhang, Hanh
Phuong Giang, Yash Dave, Skybox Holdings 81, SAM Management, LLC, Wharf
Fun, Inc., Green Planets Express, Ice Castle Inc., Casa Cannabis Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., LA Fruity Inc., and Does 1-99 on January 18,
2024.
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative second amended complaint. The SAC asserts three causes of action in
twenty-seven counts: twelve counts of breach of contract; ten counts of fraud,
and five of money had and received. Plaintiff alleges all his causes of action
against all defendants. 
 
Plaintiff alleges Quingzhou Zhu was an
employee or managing agent of JPMorgan Chase Bank at relevant times. The
remaining individual defendants acted as managing agents for one or more of the
remaining entity defendants. Zhu induced Plaintiff to loan money to him or his
co-defendants by misrepresenting facts about various ventures’ prospects of
success. Plaintiff loaned and invested considerable funds, which were
mismanaged and/or not repaid.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Defendant
Skybox Holdings 81’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
1. Claims
for Breach of Contract
 
The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd.
v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Skybox demurs to the claims for breach of contract on the ground that
they fail to allege a contract between Skybox and Plaintiff. As stated,
Plaintiff alleges all claims against all Defendants but does not mention each
Defendant under each claim. Under claim 22 for breach of contract, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Zhu was an agent of Skybox at all times during the relevant
period. Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and Defendant Zhu agreed that Plaintiff
would pay $100,000 to Zhu via check to
Skybox on or before June 8, 2021 and Defendants would pay Plaintiff $101,000 on
or before September 8, 2021. Plaintiff then alleges the parties agreed to
modify the contract so that Plaintiff would instead pay $93,600 to Skybox and
an additional $5,000 payment at Defendants’ direction and Defendants would
return only $100,000 instead of $101,000. Plaintiff alleges he performed, and
Defendants breached by failing to return Plaintiff’s investment. This is
sufficient to allege a claim for breach of contract against Skybox.
 
The demurrer to claim 22 for
breach of contract is OVERRULED. The demurrer to the remaining claims for
breach of contract is SUSTAINED.
 
2. Claims
for Money Had and Received
 
“A cause of action for money had and received
is stated if it is alleged the defendant ‘is indebted to the plaintiff in a
certain sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the
plaintiff.’” (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
445, 460 (citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Pleading, § 508, p.
543).)
 
Skybox demurs to the claims for money had and received on the grounds
that none of the claims mention Skybox or allege facts against Skybox. This is
insufficient to allege claims for money had and received against Skybox.
 
The demurrer to the claims for money had and received is SUSTAINED. 
 
3. Claims
for Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Skybox demurs to the claims for fraud on the grounds that they fail to
allege facts with the requisite specificity. Again, all claims for fraud are
alleged against all Defendants, but only the 23rd claim for fraud
mentions Skybox. The allegations of fraud are the same as those for breach of
contract. Though the allegations may be sufficient to allege breach of
contract, fraud requires greater detail and specificity. There are no specific
facts showing fraud on Skybox’s part.
 
The demurrer to the claims of fraud is SUSTAINED. The motion to strike
punitive damages is MOOT.
 
B. Defendants Sisley Wong, LA Fruity Inc., and Xiaodan Zhang’s
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
1. Individual Defendants Sisley Wong and
Xiaodan Zhang
 
As with the first amended complaint,
defendant Sisley Wong’s name appears once in the body of the SAC, in the list
of parties at its outset. The SAC states no claims against her. 
 
Similarly, defendant Xiaodan Zhang
appears once afterthe opening list of parties, where Plaintiff alleges that
around June 6, 2021, she “told PLAINTIFF that she was pregnant and she had put
a lot of effort into LA FRUITY, INC.” This single allegation is not linked to
any count within the SAC, nor does it otherwise state a claim for fraud. 
 
The individual Defendants’ demurrers
are SUSTAINED.
 
2. Claims against LA Fruity, Inc.
 
LA Fruity Inc. asserts that various
claims asserted in the SAC are barred by the applicable statutes of limitation
and are uncertain. Of the claims in the SAC, only count 16 for breach of
contract, count seventeen for fraud, and count eighteen for fraud mention LA
Fruity, Inc. These claims are not barred by the statutes of limitations on
their face as they do not state a date of breach. 
 
As against LA Fruity, Plaintiff alleges
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a written agreement containing the
following terms: a. PLAINTIFF would work for LA FRUITY, INC. b. LA Fruity Inc.
would give PLAINTIFF 30% of certain of its profits. Plaintiff alleges he
performed and LA Fruity breached. Plaintiff also alleges Defendant Zhu, acting
on behalf of LA Fruity, Inc., misrepresented LA Fruity’s valuation and assets,
and misrepresented that if Plaintiff paid LA Fruity $60,000.00, Plaintiff could
manage LA Fruity’s business. Plaintiff alleges Zhu made these representations
with the intent to defraud Plaintiff and Plaintiff was damaged as a result.
This is sufficient to allege claims for breach of contract and fraud against LA
Fruity.
 
The demurrer to claims 16, 17 and 18 is OVERRULED. The demurrer to the
remaining claims is SUSTAINED.
 
C. Defendant Chase Bank’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
 
Defendant Chase demurs to the SAC on
the ground that it fails to state a claim against Chase. As with the FAC,
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Zhu was an employee of Chase Bank and made two
misrepresentations while Plaintiff and Defendant were at a Chase Bank location.
Plaintiff alleges Zhu misrepresented his salary at Chase and misrepresented
that investment in LA Fruity would be low risk, high reward. These facts do not
give rise to claims for breach of contract, money had and received or fraud
against Chase. 
            
The demurrer is SUSTAINED.


 