  Case Number:  24STCP02772    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Carl Rinsch, et al.,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCP02772




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Ice Cream Fridge, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 31, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award;
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
 
T/R:     THE PETITION TO VACATE ARBITRATION
AWARD IS DENIED.
 
THE PETITION TO
CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD IS GRANTED.
 
PETITIONERS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions and replies.
 
A. Carl Rinsch and Home VFX’s Petition
to Vacate Arbitration Award
 
Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition
the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  (CCP § 1285.) 
“Except for the very limited grounds set forth in section 1286.2 and
1286.6, awards are immune from judicial review.”  (Cinel v. Christopher (2012) 203 Cal.
App. 4th 759, 767, n.5 [citing Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3
Cal. 4th 1, 12–13.)  CCP § 1286.2(a)
permits the Court to vacate an arbitration award for any of the following
reasons:
 
(1) The award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means. 
(2) There was corruption in any of the arbitrators. 
(3) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator. 
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted. 
(5) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence
material to the controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to
the provisions of this title. 
(6) An arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to
disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground for disqualification
of which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification
upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely
demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that
provision. . . .
 
Arbitrators do
not “exceed their powers” merely by rendering an erroneous decision on a legal
or factual issue.  (Moncharsh, supra
at 28.)  
 
Rinsch and Home VFX move to vacate the
arbitrator’s award on the grounds that the arbitrator had an appearance of bias
against Rinsch, and that the arbitrator exceeded her authority by rewriting
terms of the contracts at issue in the arbitration. Following a 14-day trial on
the merits, Hon. Rita Miller (Ret.) issued an award in favor of Netflix and
against Rinsch arising from disputes related to the production of a series
created by Rinsch, titled Conquest.
 
1.    Appearance of Bias
 
Rinsch asserts that the arbitrator
showed bias against him when she made comments about Rinsch’s autism diagnosis in
the middle of the 14-day trial on the merits of the parties’ claims.
Specifically, the arbitrator expressed concern that mentioning Rinsch’s autism
diagnosis and certain emails that Rinsch sent to Netflix personnel during their
conflict might have a “deleterious effect on his career” or might be
“embarrassing.” The arbitrator suggested that counsel confer about sealing a
portion of the award for this reason. Rinsch argues that this shows bias
against him because the arbitrator believed that his autism diagnosis was embarrassing
and because the arbitrator believed that the award may have a negative effect
on his career, showing that she had already made up her mind against him.
 
In opposition, Netflix argues that
these comments do not show any bias toward Rinsch, and instead reflect the
arbitrator’s concern and respect for Rinsch. Netflix also asserts that the
claim of bias is further unsubstantiated by the fact that Rinsch did not move
to disqualify the arbitrator for bias until 8 months after the comments were
made and until after the arbitrator issued her interim award against Rinsch. Netflix
also presents a letter sent directly from Rinsch to the arbitrator after the
close of the trial thanking her for presiding over the case with “fairness and
integrity.”
 
The comments cited by Rinsch do not
show bias by the arbitrator. They show concern for the parties’ privacy and careers
outside of the arbitration process. Rinsch’s arguments to the contrary are
undermined by the failure to timely raise the issue during arbitration and by
Rinsch’s expression of gratitude and praise of the arbitrator’s integrity.
These are not grounds to vacate the arbitration award.
 
2.    Authority of the Arbitrator
 
Rinsch alternatively argues that the
award should be vacated because the arbitrator exceeded her powers by rewriting
the terms of the parties’ agreements. Rinsch asserts that the arbitrator “remade”
the agreements by considering evidence outside of the four corners of the
agreements. 
 
The arbitrator’s interpretation of the
contracts and the evidence considered in reaching that interpretation are
within the discretion of the arbitrator. Courts do not review the merits of the
controversy, the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning, or the sufficiency of
the evidence supporting the arbitrator’s award. (See Moncharsh v. Heily
& Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 11.) An arbitrator exceeds their authority
by, for example, ruling on issues outside the scope arbitration agreement. That
is not what occurred here. The award cannot be vacated on this basis. 
 
The petition to vacate the arbitration
award is DENIED.
 
B. Ice Cream Fridge, LLC and Netflix
Entertainment, LLC’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration 
 
Netflix moves to confirm the arbitration award. Any party to an
arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm,
correct or vacate the award. (CCP § 1285.) Netflix has complied with CCP §
1285.4. Rinsch opposes the petition on the ground that Netflix should have
filed the petition under the case number opened by the petition to vacate. The
Court will not deny the petition on this ground.
 
The petition to confirm arbitration award is GRANTED.


 