  Case Number:  21VECV01514    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  W OREN
KONENKOV, ET AL. V. EXPO DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT, INC., DBA EXPO CONSTRUCTION,
ET AL.
 
MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF
BUSINESS REOCRDS
 
Date of Hearing:        September 11, 2024                         Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21VECV01514
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Avraham Gutman and Sharon Trumer
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Oren Konenkov and Lina Konenkov 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Oren and Lina
Konenkov allege on August 10, 2020, Plaintiffs and Defendants Expo Design &
Development, Inc. dba Expo Construction, Avraham Gutman, Sharon Trumer, and
Celio Eugenio Cruz entered into an agreement by which Defendants agreed to
furnish certain labor, services, equipment and materials for construction work
pertaining to improvement to Plaintiffs’ property located in Woodland Hills.
The agreed upon price was $348,809.00. Between the time that Plaintiffs first
entered into the Agreement and October 26, 2020, Plaintiffs paid Defendants the
sum of $256,244.90. Plaintiffs further allege any work that Defendants have
performed at the Property to date, was not permitted by the relevant
governmental agencies as required by law and in November 2020, Plaintiffs
terminated Defendants’ access to the Property and requested that Defendants
comply with their statutory obligation to return the $256,244.90 that
Plaintiffs had paid Defendants to date. However, Defendants refused to return
any of money Plaintiffs had paid Defendants.
 
On November 5, 2021,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for
1) Disgorgement of Compensation Paid to Unlicensed Contractor (B&P Code
§7031); 2) Fraud; 3) Breach of Contract; 4) Breach of Implied Warranty and Implied
Covenant to Perform Work in a Good and Competent Manner; 5) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 6) Negligence; and 7) Unfair Business
Practices (B&P Code §17200).
 
On April 21, 2022,
Defendant Expo Construction was dismissed.
 
On August 26, 2022, default
judgment was entered against Defendants Avraham
Gutman and Sharon Trumer. On February 6, 2023, the default judgment was set
aside. 
 
TENTATIVE RULLING
 
Defendants’
Avraham Gutman and Sharon Trumer’s Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoena for
Production of Business Records is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
Avraham Gutman and Sharon Trumer both move the court for an order quashing the
deposition subpoena issued and served on JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for
production of business records regarding Defendants Gutman and Trumer.
Defendants make the motion on the grounds that 1) the subpoena seeks the private
financial records of Defendants Gutman and Trumer, 2) is overbroad in seeking
all records for all accounts regardless of any connection to any issues in this
case, 3) seeks records outside of the time period set forth in the Complaint,
and 4) seeks records that could potentially disclose the financial information
of third parties that have not been put on notice. Defendants also seek
attorney fees. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things
before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a
deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
 
The
right to privacy set forth in the California Constitution (at Art. I, § 1)
extends to one's financial records. (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court
of San Joaquin County (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.) “Unless otherwise limited
by order of the court . . . any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved . . .
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.)
“Even highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery
if its disclosure would impair a person’s ‘inalienable right of privacy’
provided by” Article 1, section 1 of the California Constitution. (See Britt
v. Superior Court (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844,
855-856.)  
 
The
California Supreme Court in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35, “established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation.] The party seeking information may raise in response whatever
legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the
party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A
court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Williams v.
Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If any of the threshold Hill
requirements are absent, the court need not move on to a balancing of
interests. (Id. at p. 555.) 
 
Defendants
argue balancing their right to privacy against Plaintiff’s interest in
obtaining their private financial records tips in favor of protecting
Defendants’ constitutional right to privacy. Defendants claim Plaintiffs are
seeking their personal bank records and are seeking documents regarding all
accounts held in Defendants’ name without any limitation in scope and overbroad
in time. Specifically, Plaintiffs seek financial records as well as
applications of all accounts regardless of whether said accounts are associated
with Expo Design & Development, Inc. dba Expo Construction. In other words,
Plaintiffs seek any and all financial information regarding Defendants held by
JPMorgan Chase regardless of any connection said information has on any issue
in this case. Defendants deny doing business through Expo and even if they did
so, engaging in the normal course of business through a corporation does not
render one’s personal financial information open and available. Lastly,
Defendants assert that the subpoenas improperly seek private financial
information of third parties as it is likely Defendants conducted incoming and
outgoing transfers through Zelle, Venmo and other money applications from their
personal bank accounts to the personal money applications and/or bank accounts
of his family, friends and associates.
 
In
opposition[1],
Plaintiffs argue the documents sought are relevant given there is sufficient
evidence to link Trumer, and by extension her husband Gutman, to an account at
JPMorgan Chase bank where Plaintiff’s checks were likely deposited. This
evidence would prove that Trumer and Gutman have misrepresented their continued
involvement of Expo after November 18, 2019 as well as their denial of
performing work in Plaintiffs’ property in 2020. Moreover, disclosure weighs in
Defendants’ favor because the information is not being sought to annoy,
embarrass or oppress Trumer or Gutman, but because the records go the issue of
their credibility and affirmative defenses, including that they have not received
any compensation from Expo or any one else related to the construction project
at the Property and that they had no involvement with EXPO’s operation after
November 18, 2019. 
 
The
court finds the deposition subpoenas seek relevant information but are
currently overbroad and should be modified. First, the records sought are from
the time period of August 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021. The court sees no
justification for extending the period all the way through December 31, 2021,
as the interactions between the parties ended in November 2020. Accordingly,
the time period for which bank records should be produced is August 1 2020 to
December 31, 2020.  Second, seeking ‘any
and all’ documents, applications related to ‘any and all’ transactions, wire
transfer, and cred card accounts is extremely overboard. The court agrees the
financial records are relevant to the causes of action and affirmative defenses
being asserted, specifically, to Defendants’ denial of their involvement in  Expo and performing work at Plaintiffs’
property. However, this does not entitle Plaintiffs to Defendants’ full bank
records.  Accordingly, the court orders
the subpoenas as follows:  All cancelled
checks signed by Grutman or Turner, all bank records referencing Expo, all
records related to plaintiff’s property, and any wire transfers to or from
Turner and Grutman.    Plaintiffs
have not demonstrated how account applications or credit cards are necessary. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ Avraham Gutman and Sharon Trumer’s Motions to Quash Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Sanctions
 
With
respect to sanctions, a court may “in its discretion award the amount of
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing [a motion to quash],
including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more
of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”¿ (CCP § 1987.2(a).) 
 
Both
parties request sanctions. However, the court finds Plaintiffs did have a
legitimate discovery interest in seeking certain bank records of Defendants and
Defendants did have a legitimate interest in protecting their financial privacy
rights. Accordingly, both requests for sanctions are denied. 
 


