 Case Number:  23VECV00091    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  W ROBIN LA DUE vs SHAHE BOYADIJAN, et al.
 
defendants’
MOTION TO DISMISS FOR PLAINTIFF’S FAILURE TO AMEND FOLLOWING SUSTAINING OF DEMURRER
 
Date
of Hearing:        Sept. 11, 2024                                   Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00091
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Robin La Due 
Responding Party:      Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 9, 2023, Plaintiff Robin La Due filed a complaint against Defendants
Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
on August 24, 2023 for Breach of Contract, Stolen Property, and Malicious
Sabotage. Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint on January 8, 2024, adding
a cause of action for Fraud on the Court. 
 
The parties have a history of litigation between them that began
prior to Plaintiffs filing the instant action. In January 2022, Boyadjian filed
a small claims action against Robin La Due to recover unpaid rent. Judgment was
ultimately entered in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due. On June 21, 2022,
Boyadjian filed an unlawful detainer action against Robin La Due, stemming from
his longstanding unjustified failure to pay rent at the subject property, in
violation of the lease agreement. That matter was also fully litigated and
resulted in another judgment in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due. Following
those two actions by Boyadjian, Plaintiff subsequently brought two civil
actions against the Boyadjians. In
this action, Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly give Plaintiff
enough time to vacate the premises upon the Sheriffs’ arrival, resulting in
their leaving behind certain personal property at the unit, which Defendants
have refused to return. Plaintiff also alleges Defendant withheld Plaintiff’s security
deposit. 
 
On April 30,
2024, defendants filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted on June 10,
2024.  The court ordered plaintiff’s
complaint dismissed with prejudice as plaintiff failed to amend the complaint
within the time allowed by the court, as required by C.C.P. Section
581(f).  While dismissal under Code of
Civil Procedure section 581(f) is discretionary, any such dismissal must be
with prejudice. (Cano v. Glover (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 330.) “No cases
have held that a dismissal pursuant to section 581, subdivision (f)(2) may be
without prejudice. The right to dismiss without prejudice is expressly
permitted by other subdivisions of section 581 but section 581, subdivision
(f)(2) does not so provide.”¿(Id. at 229.)  Plaintiff failed to file an opposition to the
motion to dismiss and the case was dismissed. 

 
Plaintiff now
moves for reconsideration of that order.  

 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
reconsideration on June 21, 2024.   It
cannot fairly be construed as a motion for reconsideration, as it does not
comply with the requirements of C.C.P. Section 1008, namely that the motion be
based “upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law.”  Rather, this motion is in truth a motion for
relief from error pursuant to C.C.P. 473(b), which provides in pertinent part:
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  
 
Plaintiff asserts that he should be relieved
of his mistake in failing to file the amended complaint because he is
self-represented and is burdened by the care of his mother and other
responsibilities. While this court is sensitive to the difficulties of appearing
without counsel and the financial and personal difficulties plaintiff alleges,
plaintiff must still conform to the legal requirements for the motions he
brings.   He has not complied with the
mandatory requirements of Section 473(b) that he submit a copy of the amended
complaint with the motion for relief.  As
that section makes clear: the “[a]pplication for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted.”   
 
But even had such a document been filed, the
court would not find an adequate basis for relief.  Plaintiff knew that he had to file the
amended complaint by April 29, 2024.   He
was in court when the order was issued. 
Further, he filed a declaration on April 26, 2024, informing the court
that he had no intention of filing the amended complaint, as he had been
ordered.  He informed the court that the
case was not “going anywhere,” and he wanted to “stop wasting the time of
everyone involved.”  (La Due Declaration
filed April 26, 2024.)   Given this
admission that he knew he was obligated to file the amended complaint and he
elected not to at the time, either because he thought it was a waste of time or
thought he would not get a fair hearing, the court does not find his subsequent
change of heart entitled to the relief contemplated for true mistake, surprise
or excusable neglect.  The deliberate
decision to not file a pleading despite a court order and deadline, is not
excusable neglect, nor can it be deemed a true mistake or surprise.
 
The Motion for Reconsideration is
DENIED.  
 
 