  Case Number:  23SMCV01370    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Steiger
v. Nine Eighteen Twenty-First Street HOA, Case No. 23SMCV01370 
Hearing
date June 6, 2024
Plaintiff
Steiger’s Demurrer to Defendants Nine Eighteen Twenty-First Street HOA and Mortazavi’s
Second Amended Answer
Plaintiff
Steiger alleges the HOA defendants improperly restricted his ability to
renovate his residential unit. On December 6, 2023 the court sustained Steiger’s
demurrer to the third through twenty-fourth affirmative defenses raised in the
HOA defendants’ first amended answer, with twenty days leave to amend.
Defendants filed their second amended answer (SAA) January 23, 2024.
Steiger now demurs
to the following affirmative defenses raised in the SAA: third (comparative
fault), fourth (comparative fault), fifth (unclean hands), sixth (excuse of
performance or prevention), seventh (mitigation), eighth (good faith), ninth
(waiver/estoppel), tenth (lack of causation), eleventh (one who seeks equity
must do equity), twelfth (offset), and fourteenth (business judgment rule).
Affirmative
defenses are subject to demurrer when they consist only of legal conclusions
without factual support.  FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.
Steiger first
argues that many of the affirmative defenses in the SAA continue to plead legal
conclusions, not facts. Additional facts have been alleged beyond what appeared
in prior pleadings. Steiger contends these facts are not connected with the
various affirmative defenses they are alleged under. 
In
additional to further allegations regarding the HOA’s CC&Rs and Steiger’s
knowledge and acceptance of them at escrow, the following allegations are
included: 
Additionally, with respect to the washer and dryer
installation, the HOA provided specifications on October 25, 2021 to Plaintiff.
On October 27, 2021, Plaintiff agreed to the specifications but requested that
Unit D pay half the installation costs. As the HOA cannot require a unit owner
to pay for installation costs or another unit’s project, the HOA could not
agree or approve Plaintiff’s proposal. Plaintiff chose to not proceed with the
installation of the washer/dryer as proposed and as agreed to. 
Defendants complied with the applicable governing documents,
applicable statutes and case law. Defendants acted reasonably and in good
faith, and in a manner in which they believed was in the best interests of the
entire Association taking into account current and future liability.
Defendants, by and through its Board members, met the standard of care for
directors of a non-profit community association, acting as ordinary prudent
people. They exercised sound business judgment and common sense. The Board members
considered the advice and guidance of its management agent, and of other
professional individuals including the Defendants’ legal counsel. Defendants,
by and through its Board members, did not breach any fiduciary duty and were
reasonable in the dealings with Plaintiff and management of the Association and
board resolutions.
See SAA at pp. 3-17. 
In
opposition, the HOA defendants argues that the allegations in the SAA are
sufficient because they plead ultimate facts. 
They assert the SAA identifies the steps taken and the communications
made that support the various affirmative defenses alleged therein. 
Upon review
of the SAA, the allegations support the contested affirmative defenses. “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 452.) 
For
instance, with the affirmative defenses of comparative fault, the allegations are
that Steiger had been aware of the terms of the CC&Rs and the HOA
defendants complied with the governing documents when providing specifications
with respect to the washer and dryer installation. It is for this reason that
is also alleged that any loss incurred by Plaintiff was due to his own
negligence. 
For the
affirmative defense of unclean hands, based on these same facts, it is alleged
that Steiger did not act in good faith during the negotiation process and tried
to take advantage of the situation by required the unit owner below Steiger to
pay for half of the installation. For the affirmative defense of the business
judgment rule, the SAA alleges the HOA defendants complied with the governing
documents and acted reasonably and in good faith in their decision making.  
For pleading
purposes, these alleges are sufficient to support the contested affirmative
defense because it gives sufficient notice for Steiger to prepare his
case.  Harris v. City of Santa Monica
(2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.  If any
uncertainty remains, this can easily be resolved during discovery.  Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616. The demurrer is OVERRULED on this ground.
Steiger
argues the seventh, eighth, tenth, twelfth and fourteenth affirmative defenses
operate as mere denials. However, this is not persuasive because “under a
general denial, the defendant[] may urge any defenses tending to show that
plaintiff has no right to recover or no right to recover to the extent that he
or she claims.” Advantec Group, Inc. v. Edwin's Plumbing Co., Inc. (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 624, 627. The demurrer is OVERRULED on this ground.
Lastly,
Steiger argues that the HOA defendants’ equitable defenses must be alleged with
specificity. This is unpersuasive because the cases cites do not support the
proposition of a heightening pleading standard for equitable defenses. The
demurrer is OVERRULED on this ground.
OVERRULED. 