 Case Number:  23CHCV00567    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept. F49      Date: 4/17/24     Case Name: Melissa Manalang, et al. v.    Luis M. Echeverria, et al.     Case # 23CHCV00567      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 17, 2024    MOTION  TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR  SANCTIONS  Los  Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00567    Motion filed:  8/3/23   MOVING  PARTY: Plaintiffs Melissa  Manalang and Alexandre Cazals (“Plaintiffs”) RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendants Marie  Ilous and In Action Realtors, Inc. d/b/a Brad Korb Real Estate   NOTICE: ok   RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Defendants Marie Ilous and In Action Realtors,  Inc. to serve full, responsive, and complete verified responses, without  objections to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production, Set One, and imposing  monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,425.00. TENTATIVE RULING: The  motion is deemed MOOT. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from a  transaction involving real property located at 16061 Devonshire Street, Granada  Hills, California 91344 (the “Subject Property”), in which the plaintiff purchasers  allege that they have incurred damaged due to the preexisting permitting issues  associated with two Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADUs”) on the Subject Property.    On February 28, 2023,  Plaintiffs initiated the present action. Subsequently, on March 20, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed their operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against  Defendants Luis M. Echeverria and Margoth M. Echeverria, individually and as  Trustee of the Luis M. Echeverria and Margoth M. Echeverria Revocable Trust;  Mari-Elana Case; Marie Ilous, In Action Realtors, Inc.; RD 101 Inc., and Does  1-100, alleging eight causes of action: (1)  Fraud (Failure to Disclose); (2) Breach of  Fiduciary Duty; (3) Negligence; (4) Breach of Written Agreement; (5) Breach of  Oral Contract; (6) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing; (7) Unjust Enrichment/Quantum Meruit; and (8) Civil Conspiracy. On  April 20, 2023, Defendants RD 101 Inc., and Mari-Elana Case filed their Answer  to the FAC; on May 16, 2023, Defendants Marie Ilous and In Action Realtors,  Inc. filed their Answer; on May 22, 2023, Defendants Luis M. Echeverria and  Margoth M. Echeverria, individually and as Trustee of the Luis M. Echeverria  and Margoth M. Echeverria Revocable Trust, filed their Answer.   On May 22, 2023,  Defendants/Cross-Complainants Luis M. Echeverria and Margoth M. Echeverria,  individually and as Trustee of the Luis M. Echeverria and Margoth M. Echeverria  Revocable Trust, filed their Cross-Complaint against  Defendants/Cross-Defendants Marie Ilous, In Action Realtors, Inc., and Moes  1-50, alleging implied equitable indemnity, comparative indemnity, and  declaratory relief.   On August 3, 2023,  Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion to Compel Responses from Defendants Marie  Ilous and In Action Realtors, Inc. to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One.    Subsequently, on November 30, 2023, Defendants Marie Ilous and In Action  Realtors, Inc. (the “Opposing Defendants”) filed their Opposition. On January  5, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.   ANALYSIS   “If a party to whom a demand  for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a  timely response to it, the following rules shall apply:   (a) The  party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is  directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege  or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section  2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its  determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:   (1) The party has  subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections  2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280.   (2) The party’s failure  to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or  excusable neglect.   (b) The  party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the  demand.   (c) Except  as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction  under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,  or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response  to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that  the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that  other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then  fails to obey the order compelling a response, the court may make those orders  that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence  sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subds. (a), (b), (c).)   A.    Combined  Motions   Multiple motions should not  be combined into a single filing.  (See  Govt. Code § 70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each  motion, application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing]; see  also Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The  Rutter Group 2011) [“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery  requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”])   As a preliminary matter,  Plaintiffs combined and filed two motions as a single filing. As will be  discussed in more detail below, both of Plaintiffs’ motions against Defendants  Marie Ilous and In Action Realtors, Inc., are deemed moot, and the only remaining  issue is Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions. For considerations of  efficiency, the Court finds that these two motions may be joined under this  specific condition.   Consequently, the Court  will proceed to review the instant Motion.   B.      Motion to Compel   Plaintiffs brought the instant Motion  under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 subdivision (b),  which premises that the responding party fails to serve a timely response to a  Demand for Production.   Here, the Opposing Defendants argue  that they have provided full and complete responses to Plaintiffs’ request for  production of documents, without objections, in August 2023. (Agrella Decl., ¶  9.) Additionally, Plaintiffs have not requested any further responses as the  responses provided were complete. (Ibid.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs’  counsel attests that “Defendants provided full, completed and verified  responses, without objections, in August 2023,” and that “[h]ence, Plaintiffs  seek their fees and costs incurred in bringing the Motion and this Reply Brief,  and in appearing at the hearing thereon[.]” (1/5/24 Jackson Decl., ¶ 11.)   Consequently, the Court deems the  instant Motion to Compel Responses to be MOOT. The Court will now turn to  assess Plaintiffs’ Request for Monetary Sanctions.   C.     Monetary Sanctions   Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 subdivision (c), the court “shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject  to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)    Here, the Opposing Defendants’ counsel asserts that he was  not aware of Plaintiffs’ two Request for Production of Documents, Set One, (“RPD”),  as there were initially served via email for the sender’s email address,  “support@voklaw.com,” was blocked by his Outlook server. (Agrella  Decl., ¶ 5.) Consequently, the Opposing Defendants argue that his failure to  respond was as a result of his inadvertence, mistaken and/or excusable neglect,  referencing Code of Civil Procedure section 473. (Ibid.)    The Court notes that the Opposing Defendants’  contention based on Code of Civil Procedure section 473 is premature, as it  permits a court to relieve a party from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other  proceeding taken against him or her, which is nonexistent at the time the  Opposition was filed. However, the Court will consider the Opposing Party’s  evidence in determining whether substantial justification exists, in accordance  with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 subdivision (c).    Here, even if the Court accepts that the  Opposing Defendants were not aware of the email service of the RPDs, it  nonetheless does not establish a substantial justification for their untimely  responses, as Plaintiffs present evidence that their June 6, 2023, service of  the RPDs was made via both U.S. Mail and email. (6/6/23 Proof of Service.) The  Opposing Defendants do not argue that the mailed service was affected by  inadvertence.    Consequently, the Proof of Service  establishes the deadline for responses as July 11, 2023, which the Opposing  Defendants failed to meet.   Furthermore, the Opposing Defendants maintain  that Plaintiffs’ email dated July 27, 2023, seemed clear to him that an  extension was being given, without regard to an obvious typographical error concerning  the set due date, which led to his plan to contact Plaintiffs’ counsel on July  31, 2023, to clarify what the intended extension date was. (Agrella Decl., ¶  8.)   Contrarily, Plaintiffs’ counsel attests that  he had sent a separate email to the Opposing Defendants’ counsel on July 17, 2023,  regarding the RPDs; however, no responses were received by Plaintiffs before he  sent the July 27, 2023, email. (7/28/23 Jackson Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)    The Court observes the typographical error in  the July 27, 2023, email, where a past date, namely July 21, 2023, was set as the  new due date under the extension, causing confusion. However, even assuming  that such an error justifies the Opposing Defendants’ belief that an extension  was granted, it cannot be concluded that it was reasonable for the Opposing  Defendants not to provide any responses to either the RPDs or Plaintiffs’  inquiry in their July 17, 2023, email.   Accordingly, the Court concludes that the  Opposing Defendants have not established a substantial justification, and a  monetary sanction is mandatory.    Utilizing  a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the instant Motion is $970.00, calculated at $485.00 per hour for two  hours.                Therefore, the Court GRANTS IN PART  the Request for Monetary Sanctions.    CONCLUSION   Plaintiffs’  Motion to Compel Defendant PlayCore’s Further Responses  to Demand for Production, Set One, is deemed MOOT.   Plaintiffs’ Request for Monetary Sanctions is  GRANTED IN PART.   Defendants Marie Ilous and In Action  Realtors, Inc., and their counsel of record, are ordered to pay $970.00  monetary sanctions, joint and severally, to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 10 days.   Moving party is to give notice.   