  Case Number:  22SMCV01167    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:                Gabriel Robles v. Alboorz,
LLC, et al.



Case No.:                    22SMCV01167


Complaint Filed:                   07-20-22




Hearing Date:            04-30-24


Discovery C/O:                      05-03-24




Calendar No.:            5


Discover Motion C/O:           05-18-24




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             06-03-24



SUBJECT:                            MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AND FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS OR, ALTERNATIVELY, FOR LESSER SANCTIONS 
MOVING
PARTY:  Plaintiff Gabriel Robles  
RESP.
PARTY:        Defendants Alboorz, LLC
(“Alboorz”), Mohammadreza Yazdi (“Yazdi”), and Tahereh Taheryazdy Yazdi 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions or, alternatively, for
Lesser Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
terminating, issue and evidentiary sanctions. The Court GRANTS IN PART
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, and 3 to the declaration of Paul Marks in
opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions on the grounds of hearsay. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 to the declaration of Nazrin
Yazdi in opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions on the grounds of
hearsay. 
 
REASONING
 
“A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.” (Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 690, 702.) A trial court’s order to impose terminating
sanctions will be reversed only if it “was arbitrary, capricious, or
whimsical.” (Ibid.)  “[W]here a violation is willful, preceded by
a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.)
Trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery
orders. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating sanctions are
warranted when a party’s lack of compliance with the discovery process has
caused the opposing party prejudice. (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967,
989.)
 
As an alternative to terminating
sanctions, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) “The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting an party engaging
in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) 
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary
sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
The October 30, 2023 stipulation
agreed to at the IDC and entered into the minutes is a court order. Defendants’
counsel orally stipulated to serve supplemental responses on behalf of each
defendant to set one of Plaintiff’s inspection demand by December 15, 2023, and
the depositions of Defendant Yazdi individually and as a PMK for Defendant
Alboorz was to commence on January 15, 2024. (10/30/23 Minute Order and
11/02/23 Minute Order.) Such stipulation is binding on the parties as it was
made by Defendants’ counsel. (See Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279 [“A stipulation in proper form is binding upon the
parties if it is within the authority of the attorneys.”).] Thus, Defendants
are bound by such stipulations. 
 
Moreover, despite the deposition of
Defendant Taheri being ordered to take place on March 25, 2024 (02/01/24 Minute
Order), the Court finds that Defendants have failed to comply with discovery
orders issued by this Court and that such failure was willful. 
 
The Court, however, does not find
that terminating sanctions are appropriate. Although Defendants have each
failed to comply with discovery order issued by this court, the Court must take
an incremental approach to discovery sanctions under Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992. The declarations of counsel
in support of the moving and reply papers do not state that Plaintiff has been
prejudiced due to the actions of Defendants. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions. 
 
Issue and Evidentiary Sanctions
 
As to Plaintiff’s request for issue
and evidentiary sanctions, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for issue and
evidentiary sanctions is procedurally defective. A motion for issue or
evidentiary sanctions must include a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1345(a)(7). A separate statement is not required where: (1) no response
has been provided to the request for discovery; or (2) when a court has allowed
the moving party to submit—in place of a separate statement—a concise outline
of the discovery request and each response in dispute. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1345(b)(1)-(2).) “A separate statement is a separate document filed and
served with the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to
understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at
issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).) “The separate statement must be
full and complete so that no person is required to review any other document.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c).) 
 
Although not raised in the
opposition brief, the Court finds that Plaintiff failed to file a separate
statement in support of the motion. While the depositions of Defendants have
not occurred, Plaintiff did receive verified initial responses to set one of
its inspection demands from Defendants Yazdi and Alboorz. (Kovalsky Decl. at
Exhs. E and G.) Plaintiff therefore should have filed a separate statement. Also,
while Plaintiff requests issue and evidentiary sanctions, neither the notice
nor the amended notice of motion sets forth the specific issue and evidentiary
sanctions sought. The amended notice merely states that Plaintiff seeks issue
or evidentiary sanctions determining liability. (Amended Notice of Motion at p.
2:12-13.) A notice of motion must “specify the type of sanctions sought.” (Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) Plaintiff
should have articulated the specific issue and evidentiary sanctions sought in
the notice of motion. 
 
The Court therefore DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for issue and evidentiary sanctions against Defendants. 
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
In the amended notice of motion,
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions against Defendants Yazdi and Alboorz and
their counsel, Paul Marks and the law firm of Neufled Marks, a professional
corporation in the amount of $10,750.00, jointly and severally. (Amended Notice
of Motion at p. 4:22-5:2.) As to Defendant Taheri, Plaintiff seeks monetary
sanctions against Defendant Taheri in the amount of $4,300.00. (Id.) As
to the motion itself, counsel states that he spent 9 hours preparing the motion
and accompanying papers and spent one (1) hour meeting and conferring
concerning the motion. (Kovalsky Decl., ¶ 29.)
 
The Court finds that the motion is
straightforward in nature and is not complex. All Defendants are represented by
Paul S. Marks of Neufeld Marks, a professional corporation. Here, Defendants
each disobeyed a court order to provide discovery. The Court exercises its
discretion and GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reasonable amount of $1,650.00 (representing 3 hours of work on the motion at
the rate of $550/hour). The Court reduces the amount of monetary sanctions
given the straightforward nature of the motion. Monetary sanctions are to be
paid by Defendants Yazdi, Taheri, Alboorz , jointly and severally, to Plaintiff
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Court also ORDERS that Defendants comply with their discovery obligations under the Court’s October 30, 2023 and February 1, 2024 orders forthwith 
