  Case Number:  23TRCV03115    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant Abbas MirrashidiResponding Party: Plaintiff Christine MuellerDemurer and Motion to StrikeThe court considered the moving papers and opposition. As of May 7, 2024, no reply has been filed.RULINGDefendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend and the Motion to Strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. Any amended complaint is to be filed and served within 20 days.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff leased residential premises from Defendant. Plaintiff alleges the premises suffered from multiple serious habitability issues, including persistent water intrusion, black mold, lead and asbestos. Plaintiff alleges she suffered serious health issues as a result of these conditions. Plaintiff alleges her property was damaged due to the water intrusion. Plaintiffalleges Defendant did not reimburse her for the property damage or the rent she paid him during the time when the premises was uninhabitable and she was forced to relocate.Plaintiff alleges that whenever she complained about the habitability issues, Defendant would engage in abusive behavior, including abusive phone calls, shouting matches and threats. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant also sent her an eviction notice during the Los Angeles County eviction moratorium.On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint Defendant for (1) breach of the implied warranty of habitability; (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) private nuisance; (4) unfair competition; (5) negligence; (6) breach of contract; (7) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (8) IIED; (9) eviction without cause; (10) constructive eviction; (11) failure to refund security deposit.LEGAL AUTHORITYDemurrerWhen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228. “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905. “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. The court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. On demurrer, courts assume the truth of all well-pled factual allegations in the subject pleading, “shorn of any legal conclusions.” Fuller v. First Franklin Financial Corp. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 955, 959.Motion to Strike“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP §436.)Pursuant to CCP §436, the Court may strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” and/or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP §436.) In ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the complaint are considered in context and presumed to be true: “[J]udges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)DISCUSSIONA. Parties’ PositionsDefendant demurs to Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for IIED, which Defendant misidentifies as the seventh cause of action, pursuant to CCP §§430.10(e) and (f). Defendant argues the IIED claim is uncertain and fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action. Defendant also identifies CCP §430.10(d) as grounds for demurrer in the notice, but does not argue there has been any misjoinder or defect in the parties.Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint is a run-of-the-mill habitability case that does not support an IIED cause of action. Defendant argues there are no allegations that he acted with the intent to emotional distress or he acted with reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress.Defendant also moves to strike the punitive damages allegations and claim on grounds no facts are allege that would support a finding of malice, oppression or fraud. Defendant argues the IIED claim fails because no outrageous conduct is alleged, and as such, no punitive damages claim can be based on IIED.Defendant argues Plaintiff’s allegations of constructive eviction and failure to remediate do not support a finding of “outrageous conduct.” Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to allege when she notified Defendant of the toxic conditions and how long Defendant failed to act upon receiving notice of them.Defendant argues the request for attorney’s fees must be stricken. Defendant argues Civil Code §§52(a) and 52.1(h) do not apply here. Defendant argues there are no allegations that Defendant violated Plaintiff’s civil rights, discriminated against her or denied Plaintiff’s rights. Defendant argues the elements of CCP §1021.5 are also not alleged, i.e significant benefit to the general public or large class of persons, the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement are such as to make the award appropriate and such fees should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery.In opposition, Plaintiff argues she has alleged that Defendant threatened and verbally abused her in response to her complaints regarding serious habitability issues with the premises. Plaintiff argues the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship combined with these allegations qualify as outrageous conduct. Plaintiff argues these same facts support a claim for IIED and punitive damages.Plaintiff argues her claim for attorney’s fees is based on contract. Plaintiff argues the Lease Agreement contains an attorney’s fees clause.B. Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to state a claim for IIEDTo state an IIED claim, the plaintiff must allege facts showing: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 147 (plaintiff alleged outrageous conduct based on three racially offensive statements made by defendant’s employee before 50 of plaintiff’s coworkers and 3 of his supervisors); Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534 (affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct).)Whether conduct is outrageous is usually a question of fact but can be determined as an issue of law. (Smith, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at 147.) “Mere insulting language, without more, ordinarily would not constitute extreme outrage unless it is combined with aggravated circumstances. But behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (Id. at 147.)Plaintiffs allege she resided at the premises from August 2021 to February 2023. (Complaint, ¶7.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to remediate serious habitability issues that were dangerous to her health despite having notice thereof. (Complaint, ¶¶12-18.) The habitability issues were present since November 2022 and were exacerbated by heavy rainfalls in January 2023. (Complaint, ¶13.) Plaintiff notified Defendant of the water damage in November 2022. (Complaint, ¶22.) Plaintiff alleges that, during the eviction moratorium, Defendant sent Plaintiff an eviction notice. (Complaint, ¶22.) Plaintiff alleges that even when the conditions forced her to relocate, Defendant demanded that she pay rent. Defendant promised that he would reimburse the rent and any property damage she suffered but he never did. (Complaint, ¶21.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant also engaged in a string of abusive phone class, shouting matches and threats in the Spring of 2023 in response to Plaintiff’s complaints. (Complaint, ¶23.)Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant acted with the intent to cause her emotional distress or with reckless disregard of the probability of emotional distress. (Complaint, ¶66.). Defendant’s intent is itself an ultimate fact that must be accepted as true on demurrer. However, plaintiff does not allege any facts to suggest that she suffered “severe or extreme emotional distress.”Therefore, Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts to survive demurrer. Defendant’s demurrer to the IIED cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.C. Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil Code §§52.1(h), 52 and CCP §1021.5 is stricken with 10 days leave to amendPlaintiff alleges attorney’s fees under Civil Code §§52(a) and 52.1(h) and CCP §1021.5. Plaintiff fails to allege that Defendant interfered with or attempted to interfere with her constitutional rights under the laws of California or the United States. (Civil Code §52.1(b).) Plaintiff also fails to allege that Defendant discriminated against her based on a protected characteristic or membership in a protected class as set forth in Civil Code §51, 51.5 and 51.6. (Civil Code §52(a).) Plaintiff fails to allege that her lawsuit will benefit the general public or a large class of persons. (CCP §1021.5.)Plaintiff does not argue her entitlement to fees based on these statutes, despite her allegation in the prayer for relief. Plaintiff instead claims she is entitled to fees pursuant to the lease agreement. However, the lease agreement is not attached to the complaint, nor is there any reference in the complaint to the ¶36 of the lease agreement as grounds for attorney’s fees.Defendant’s motion to strike attorney’s fees is granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff is allowed leave to plead attorney’s fees based on the lease agreement.ORDERDefendant’s demurrer to the IIED claim is sustained with leave to amend. Defendant’s motion to strike the request for attorney’s fees is granted with 20 days leave to amend.