 Case Number:  21STCV13451    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Heukrodt v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
21STCV13451
Motion of Dustin Harris dba Harris Concrete Pumping for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement
Tentative
The motion
is granted.
 
Background
This case arises out of an alleged incident outside
a Kaiser facility on De Soto Avenue in Woodland Hills, California on November
14, 2019. Plaintiff Katheryn Heukrodt (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was
walking next to a construction or demolition or repair project “when an
unexpected powerful explosion occurred.” (Complaint, ¶ 4.) “The blast force was
so powerful so as to cause plaintiff’s body and person to be struck by material
propelled by the force of the blast throwing the plaintiff through the air
causing plaintiff’s body to come to very abrupt and forceful stop when it
struck the cement sidewalk.” (Ibid.)
On April 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed the complaint
asserting one cause of action for negligence and one cause of action for “res
ipso loquitor” against Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals; Kaiser
Foundation Hospital Woodland Hills California; McCarthy Building Company, Inc.;
Doe Cement Pumping Company; Doe Subcontractor; and Does 1-200.
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. (erroneously
sued as McCarthy Building Company, Inc.) (“McCarthy”) and Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (“Kaiser”) each filed an answer on August 25, 2021. The same day,
McCarthy and Kaiser each filed a cross-complaint against Harris Concrete
Pumping; Dustin C. Harris; Atomic Concrete Pumping; Thomas R. Slater; and Roes
1-50. McCarthy and Kaiser each submitted a First Amended Cross-Complaint on April
28, 2022.
On January 10, 2022, Thomas Slater dba Atomic
Concrete Pumping (erroneously sued as Thomas R. Slater and as Atomic Concrete
Pumping) (“Atomic”) filed answers to the cross-complaints of McCarthy and
Kaiser. Atomic also filed a cross-complaint against Harris Concrete Pumping;
Dustin C. Harris; and Moes 1 through 100. Atomic amended the Cross-Complaint on
June 9, 2022, to name Kaiser as Moe 1, McCarthy as Moe 2, Jezowski & Markel
Contractors, Inc. aka J&M Concrete Contractors (“J&M”) as Moe 3, and Brandsafway
Services, LLC aka Safway Services, LLC (“Brandsafway”) as Moe 4.
On June 9, 2022, Dustin Harris dba Harris
Concrete Pumping (erroneous sued as Dustin C. Harris and Harris Concrete
Pumping) (“Harris”) filed answers to the cross-complaints of McCarthy, Kaiser,
and Atomic. Harris also filed a cross-complaint against McCarthy, Kaiser, Atomic,
J&M, Brandsafway, and Zoes 1 through 50. Harris also filed a
cross-complaint against Brandsafway and Joes 1 through 20 on August 9, 2023.
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Atomic as Doe 101, J&M as Doe Subcontractor, Harris as
Doe Cement Pumping Company, Brandsaway Services, LLC as Doe 111, and Brandsafway
as Doe 112.
On August 1, 2023, Brandsafway answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Atomic, Harris, and Zoes 1
through 10.
Atomic settled with Plaintiff for $1 million. On
January 3, 2024, the Court ruled that the settlement was in good faith under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
Harris has now settled with Plaintiff for $2
million. On August 9, 2024, Harris filed this motion for determination of good
faith settlement. No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or
more alleged joint tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order under Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 determining that a settlement between the
plaintiff and one or more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. A
judicial determination of good faith “bar[s] any other joint tortfeasor … from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor … for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)
In evaluating whether a
settlement has been made in good faith, courts consider the following factors,
as set forth by the California Supreme Court in the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488: 
             1)
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery”;
             2)
“the settlor’s proportionate liability”;
            3) “the amount paid in settlement”;
      4) “the allocation of the settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs”;
5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial”;
             6)
the settling party's “financial conditions and insurance policy limits”;
7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”
(Id. at 499.)
“Practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the
basis of information available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)
The “good faith” concept in
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on
reviewing courts the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the
interests of nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v.
Curtis (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack
of “good faith” may meet this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so
far "out of the ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a “settlement
made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.) 
The Supreme Court explained
that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable
policies: 
1)
encouragement of settlements; and 
2)
equitable allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors.  
(Ibid.)  
Those policies would not be
served by an approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the
other. (Ibid.) Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith
unless the amount is reasonable in light of the settling tortfeasor's
proportionate share of liability. (Std. Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter
Corp. (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 577, 589.) Or, as the California Supreme
Court has stated, a “defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra,
38 Cal.3d at 499.)
When a motion seeking a
determination under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the
burden on the moving parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith
is slight. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [holding that a “barebones motion” including a
declaration setting forth “a brief background of the case is sufficient”].) 
When a good faith motion is
contested, however, the moving parties have the initial burden of producing
evidence in support of the requested good faith determination. (Id. at pp.
1261-1262.) “Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing,
through expert declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is
within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco
Forge v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.) “Substantial
evidence” is required. (Id. at p. 1352.) A declaration from a settling
defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the client has
little or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko v.
County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil
& Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023) ¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.) 

The ultimate burden of
persuasion is on the party opposing the good faith determination.  The “party asserting a lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(d); see also 3 Weil & Brown, supra,
at ¶ 12:875.) 
Discussion
The Court has some familiarity with the
underlying facts based upon the prior contested motion for a good faith settlement
determination under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
This case involves an accident at a large
construction site at a Kaiser facility. Kaiser owned the premises. Kaiser hired
McCarthy as the general contractor for the project. McCarthy hired J&M as
the concrete subcontractor. J&M hired Harris to supply concrete equipment.  Harris hired Atomic to supply and operate
concrete pumping equipment.
Separately, McCarthy hired Brandsafway to
provide a barrier between the site of the construction project and outside
areas, including where pedestrians traveled.
There is evidence indicating that Atomic pumped
pressurized concrete into a hose owned and provided by Harris. The hose burst. Some
debris from the burst hose dislodged plywood from the pedestrian barrier, and
that plywood from the pedestrian barrier struck Plaintiff.
The various parties now point fingers of blame
at each other. Kaiser, McCarthy, and Harris assert that Atomic is perhaps the
most culpable party, as they allege (among other things) that Atomic pumped
pressurized concrete into a hose without first conducting a proper inspection
of the hose. Atomic contends that Harris is perhaps the most culpable party, as
Harris was the owner of the (possibly defective) hose that burst. Atomic also
contends (among other things) that Brandsafway improperly installed the
pedestrian barrier and that McCarthy (as the general contractor) and Kaiser (as
the property owner) both had overarching and primary duties to ensure the
safety of the activities at the construction site.
It is against this factual background (which
the Court has merely briefly summarized above) that the Court must now consider
and weigh the various factors set forth in Tech-Bilt and its progeny to
determine whether Harris’s settlement with Plaintiff for $2 million is a good
faith settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
1.                 
Rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. 
The Court previously determined that a rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s likely total recovery is in the range of $4
million to $6 million. Atomic has already paid $1 million to Plaintiff in settlement.

2.                 
The settlor’s proportionate liability. 
The Court previously observed that each of the defendants
bears some degree of culpability, that Atomic’s proportion of the total
liability is in the range of 25 to 30 percent, and that Harris appears to bear
the greatest degree of culpability. If Harris bears twice as much culpability as
Atomic, that would mean that’s its proportion of the total liability would be
50 to 60 percent. Multplying that percentage by the rough rough approximation
of Plaintiff’s likely total recovery ($4 million to $6 million) produces a
range of proportionate liability for Harris somewhere between $2 million at the
low end and $3.6 million at the high end. 
3.                 
The amount paid in settlement. 
Harris has agreed to pay $2 million in settlement.
4.                 
The allocation of the settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs. 
As there is only one plaintiff, this factor does not
apply here.
5.                 
A recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  
This factor supports a good faith determination.
6.                 
The settling party’s financial conditions and
insurance policy limits. 
Harris is paying
his policy limits to Plaintiff. (Harris Decl., ¶ 3; Schlichter Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
7.      Any evidence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants. 
There is no evidence of any fraud or collusion. The
settlement was reached after arms-length negotiations. (Schlichter Decl., ¶ 9.)

Taking all of these factors into account, the
Court finds that the settlement between Plaintiff and Harris is in good faith
under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. None of the other defendants
oppose this motion.
Conclusion
 
The
Court determines that the settlement between Plaintiff and Dustin Harris dba
Harris Concrete Pumping is in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6.
 
The
Court GRANTS Harris’s motion for a determination that the settlement is in good
faith.
 
Moving
party to give notice.  