 Case Number:  23STCV05733    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Tabb v. Ray
23STCV05733
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Appear for Deposition and to Produce
Documents
Tentative
The motion is denied as moot in part and is
otherwise denied without prejudice.
Background
On March 15, 2023, Rachel Tabb (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Matthew Tyler Ray (“Ray”), Counsel
Productions LLC (“Counsel”), and Does 1 through 10, for negligence arising out
of an automobile accident on March 24, 2022, at or near the intersection of
North Cahuenga Boulevard and Ivar Avenue in Los Angeles.
Ray and Counsel filed their answer on June 6,
2023.
On June 12, 2024, Counsel filed this motion to
compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition and product documents.  The hearing on the motion was set for July
23.
No opposition was filed. On July 16, 2024, Counsel
filed a “reply.”  
In the aftermath of the cyber attack on the Los
Angeles County Superior Court, the hearing was continued to August 19.
At the hearing on August 19, the Court heard from the parties,
identified certain issues, continued the hearing to September 12, and set a
schedule for further briefing.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 3.  Counsel filed a further reply on September 9.
 
Legal Standard
Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in
California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the requirements for
(among other things) what must be included in a deposition notice, when and
where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice must be
served. 
“The service of a deposition notice … is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section 2025.230 provides: “If the deponent
named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with
reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested.  In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce
at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees,
or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters
to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the
deponent.” 
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any
party to serve a written objection at least three days before the deposition if
the party contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions
of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
Section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” 
Any such motion to compel must show good cause
for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to appear, the
motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).) 
A court shall impose monetary sanctions in
favor of the moving party if the motion to compel is granted, unless “the one
subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., §
2025.450(g)(1).)
Discussion
On March 12, 2024, Counsel
first noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for May 2, 2024. (Blair Decl., ¶ 6.) The
parties met and conferred, and postponed the deposition. (Id., ¶ 8.) On
April 30, 2024, Counsel served the second notice of deposition for May 31,
2024; Plaintiff’s counsel informed Counsel that he would be away that date. (Id.¸¶¶
11, 13.) On May 16, 2024, the parties agreed to set Plaintiff’s deposition for
June 19; Counsel served the third notice of deposition on May 29, 2024. (Id.,
¶¶ 14, 16.)
Before the scheduled
deposition date, Counsel filed this motion.  After the motion was
filed, on June 17, Plaintiff served untimely objections to the deposition
notice.  (First Reply Blair Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh.
G.)  Nonetheless, Plaintiff did appear for the deposition and
Plaintiff did produce some documents, while failing to produce
others.  (Id., ¶¶ 2, 5, 6-9 & Exhs H-I.)
At the hearing on August
19, the Court expressed its concern that it did not have sufficient information
before it (and certainly not in the moving papers) regarding what relief Counsel
was seeking.  Had the motion been filed
after the deposition (and the production of documents), Counsel could have made
that clear in the moving papers, but by taking the unusual step of filing a
motion to compel in advance of the noticed deposition date, the Court had no
information – and Counsel had not given adequate notice to Plaintiff –
regarding what relief it was seeking.
The Court has reviewed the
further briefing and is still in the dark. 
Nothing in the further reply of Counsel references any particular
document request that Counsel is seeking to enforce.  Counsel mentions a “running list of items”
that “had not been produced” (Second Reply, at p. 2), but Counsel does not include
that in the Second Reply or in the concurrently filed attorney declaration.
It is the obligation of
moving party to state, clearly, what relief it is seeking.  Here, Counsel has not done so.  It is not the obligation of the Court to
review the email exchanges between the attorneys for the parties to attempt to
ascertain what document requests are or are not still in dispute.  (See Second Reply Blair Decl., Exhs.
H-I.)  
The request for an order
compelling Plaintiff to appear for deposition is denied as moot.
The request for an order
compelling Plaintiff to produce documents is denied without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES AS MOOT Defendant’s request for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear
for deposition.
 
The Court
DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendant’s request for an order
compelling Plaintiff to produce documents
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 