 Case Number:  21STCV36581    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Merlos v. Jakubczak
21STCV36581 
Motion to Quash filed by Specially Appearing Defendant Avis Budget Group, Inc.
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On October 4, 2021,
Santiago Merlos and Nelson Blanco (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Steve Jakubczak (“Jakubczak”), PV Holding Corp. (“PV”), and Does 1
through 50 for negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on
October 15, 2019.
On May 4, 2023, PV filed
its answer, along with a motion to quash service of the summons.
On April 17, 2024, the
Court granted PV’s motion to quash service of the summons.
On May 17, 2024, the Court
granted Jakubczak’s motion to quash service of the summons.
On the same day, May 17,
Plaintiffs amended their complaint to name Avis Budget Group, Inc. (“ABGI”) as
Doe 1.
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service indicating that ABGI had been served by personal
service on May 29, 2024.
On June 18, 2024, Jakubczak
filed an answer to the complaint
On June 20, 2024, ABGI filed
this motion to quash service of the summons. 
 
The hearing on this motion
was initially scheduled for July 25, 2024, and was continued to August 22 due
to the cyber attack on the Los Angeles County Superior Court.
On August 19, Plaintiff
filed an untimely opposition to the motion. ABGI filed a reply on August 21.
The motion came on for
hearing on August 22.  After hearing from
counsel, the Court continued the hearing to September 12 to give ABGI the
opportunity to file a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition on full notice.
ABGI filed a further reply on
September 4.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure
section 474 provides, in relevant part:
“When the
plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in
the complaint …, and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly .…”
In general, an amendment to
a pleading to provide the true name of a Doe defendant relates back to the date
the pleading was filed; this allows a plaintiff, effectively, to extend or
enlarge the statute of limitations period.  (Bernson v.
Browning-Ferris Industries (1994) 7 Cal.4th 926, 932.)  For
a Doe amendment to relate back to the date of filing of the original complaint,
however, Plaintiff must have been genuinely ignorant of the defendant’s
identity at the time the original complaint was filed.  (Woo v.
Super. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 177.)
As the Court of Appeal has
explained, in determining whether a plaintiff is “ignorant of the name of a
defendant” under section 474:
“The test
is whether, at the time the complaint was filed, the plaintiff was ignorant of
the facts giving [her] a cause of against the person.  The focus is on the fact that the plaintiff
knew, not on whether the plaintiff subjectively knew she had a cause of action
based on those facts.  While the
plaintiff’s ignorance must be genuine, and the plaintiff cannot claim ignorance
simply because she did not know all the details of the person’s involvement,
the plaintiff is not barred from invoking section 474 merely because she
suspected the person of wrongdoing based on an incomplete set of facts.”
(Hahn v. New York Air
Brake LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 895, 899-900 [citations omitted]; see also,
e.g., McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 368, 374 [plaintiff must have “knowledge of sufficient facts to
cause a reasonable person to believe liability is probable”]; General Motors
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 585 [plaintiff may rely on
section 474 even if he has a “suspicion of wrongdoing” by defendant].) 
The test is actual
ignorance.  For purposes of section 474,
a plaintiff has no “duty to exercise reasonable diligence to obtain facts she
‘should have known.’”  (Hahn, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at p. 900; accord General Motors, 48 Cal.App.4th at pp.
594-596.)
Section 474 is to be
“liberally construed” in favor of the pleader. 
(General Motors, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 593 [collecting cases].)
Improper service of a
defendant under section 474 may be challenged through a motion to quash.  (McClatchy, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at
p. 375; Optical Surplus v. Super. Ct. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 776, 782-784.)
In California, the statute
of limitations for a personal injury action is two years. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
335.1.)
Code of Civil Procedure
section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1) provides that, “A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion… To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” 
Discussion
 
ABGI moves
to quash service of the summons, arguing that it was not properly named as a
Doe defendant under Code of Civil Procedure section 474; to the contrary, ABGI
contends, Plaintiffs knew of its identity at the time of the accident in
October 2019, or at the latest by November 14, 2019, almost two years before
the complaint was filed.  Plaintiffs argue
that when they filed their complaint, they did not have actual knowledge of the
facts giving rise to a cause of action against ABGI.
The factual
record before the Court is somewhat limited. 

First, ABGI
states that at the time of the accident, Defendant Jakubczak was driving a rented vehicle owned by
ABGI.  (Mem., at p. 3.)  In its memorandum, ABGI states that Jakubczak,
at the scene of the accident, showed Plaintiffs a Rental Agreement Receipt and orally
informed Plaintiff Merlos that the vehicle was rented form ABGI.  (Ibid.)  But ABGI presents no evidence to support
these assertions in its briefing.  ABGI’s
counsel submits a declaration to support the motion, but counsel does not state
that he was present at the accident scene or that he saw or heard what
information Jakubczak shared with Plaintiffs. 
And Plaintiffs’ counsel counters with his own declaration – although Plaintiffs’
counsel also does not state that he was present at the accident scene – denying
that the rental agreement was provided to Plaintiffs.  
ABGI is the
moving party and has the burden of presenting evidence in support of its
motion.  There is no admissible or
reliable evidence in the record at this time to support a finding that Defendant
Jakubczak provided the rental agreement receipt (Exhibit A to the Iles
Declaration) to Plaintiffs at the scene of the accident or identified ABGI as
the owner of the rented vehicle.
Second,
ABGI presents evidence that Plaintiffs’ counsel sent, by facsimile, a document
retention letter dated November 14, 2019, addressed to “Team Level, Avis
Rent-a-Car.”  This letter appears to be properly
authenticated, and Plaintiffs do not contend otherwise.
Nothing in
the document retention letter, however, references ABGI or otherwise establishes
that Plaintiffs knew the facts giving rise to a cause of action against
ABGI.  To be sure, by this time Plaintiffs
had knowledge of the facts giving rise to a cause of action against one or more
entities in the Avis corporate family – but that’s not the same thing as saying
that Plaintiffs knew the facts giving rise to a cause of action against the
corporate entity ABGI.  Indeed, when Plaintiffs
filed their complaint, they named PV Holding Corp. as a defendant – and PV
Holding Corp. is, according to ABGI, its parent company.  (Motion, at p. 2.)  There is no evidence in this record, however,
that Plaintiffs actually knew, when they filed the complaint, the facts giving
rise to a cause of action against ABGI or any entities in the Avis corporate family
other than PV Holding Corp.  
Accordingly,
the Court must deny ABGI’s motion to quash. 
On this record, ABGI has not shown that at the time the complaint was
filed, Plaintiffs actually knew facts giving rise to a cause of action against
ABGI.  This ruling, however, does not
preclude from raising its statute of limitations defense at any other later
stage of this proceeding as may be appropriate.
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES the motion to quash filed by Specially
Appearing Defendant Avis Budget Group, Inc. 
Moving party to
give notice.