 Case Number:  24NWCP00029    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  C Quality Loan Service Corp. vs. All Claimants to
Surplus Funds
Case No.: 24NWCP00029
Hearing Date: April 9, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#10
Tentative Ruling 
Petitioner’s Motion to Deposit Surplus Funds and Discharge
Petitioner is GRANTED. 
 
Petitioner to give notice.  
 
Background 
 
Quality Loan Service Corp. (“Petitioner”) is the Trustee under a
Deed of Trust executed by Raul Ruvalcaba; recorded on August 31, 2011. 
The Deed of Trust was secured by real property located at 7716 Stewart and Grey Road
#B, Downey, CA 90241.  On August 10, 2023,
the real property was sold at a non-judicial foreclosure sale as a result of a
default under the terms of the Deed of Trust for the sum of $532,000.00. 
After payment of the foreclosing beneficiary’s unpaid debt, there remained
surplus funds in the amount of $266,619.97.  On September 15, 2023,
Petitioner mailed a Notice of Surplus Funds from the Trustee Sale to all
persons identified to have a lien associated with the subject property. 
The persons identified to have a lien associated with the subject property
include only Raul Ruvalcaba as the prior owner.
 
On October 18, 2023 Petitioner mailed a Second Notice of Surplus
Funds after not having received a claim or waiver of claim from Raul Ruvalcaba. 
To date, Petitioner has not received a claim or waiver of claim from Raul
Ruvalcaba.  Petitioner claims that due to an absence of response from Mr.
Ruvalcaba, Petitioner is unable to determine how the surplus funds should be
distributed.   
 
As a result, on January 22, 2024 Petitioner filed a Petition and
Declaration Regarding Unresolved Claims and Deposit of Undistributed Surplus
Proceeds of Trustee’s Sale (Judicial Council Form, MC-095, hereinafter
“Petition”) seeking to deposit the surplus funds with the Court. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Petitioner filed a Motion to Deposit Surplus
Funds and Discharge Petitioner which seeks to deposit surplus funds with the
Court and an order discharging the Petitioner from the action. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Unless an interpleader action has been filed, within 30 days of
executing the trustee’s deed resulting from a sale in which there are proceeds
remaining after payment of the costs and expenses accrued by the trustee and
the obligations secured by the deed of trust, the trustee must send written
notice to all persons with recorded interests in the real property as of the
date immediately prior to the trustee’s sale.  (Civ. Code, § 2924j, subd.
(a).)  “The trustee must exercise due diligence to determine the priority
of the written claims received by the trustee to the trustee’s sale surplus
proceeds from those persons whom notice was sent.”  (Id., § 2924j,
subd. (b).)  
 
“If, after due diligence, the trustee is unable to determine the
priority of the written claims received by the trustee to the trustee’s sale
surplus of multiple persons or if the trustee determines there is a conflict
between potential claimants, the trustee may file a declaration of the
unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of the superior court of the
county in which the sale occurred, that portion of the sales proceeds that
cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the clerk[.]”  (Id.,
§ 2924j, subd. (c).)  “The declaration shall specify the date of the
trustee's sale, a description of the property, the names and addresses of all
persons sent notice pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the trustee
exercised due diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee provided
written notice as required by subdivisions (a) and (d) and the amount of the
sales proceeds deposited by the trustee with the court.”  (Ibid.) 
The Petitioner must use mandatory Judicial Council Form MC-1095 titled,
“Petition and Declaration Regarding Unresolved Claims and Deposit of
Undistributed Surplus Proceeds of Trustee’s Sale.”  “Upon deposit of that
portion of the sale proceeds that cannot be distributed by due diligence, the
trustee shall be discharged of further responsibility for the disbursement of
sale proceeds.”  (Ibid.) 
 
“Before the trustee deposits the funds with the clerk of the court
pursuant to subdivision (c), the trustee shall send written notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all persons described in subdivision (a)
informing them that the trustee intends to deposit the funds with the clerk of
the court and that a claim for the funds must be filed with the court within 30
days from the date of the notice, providing the address of the court in which
the funds were deposited, and a telephone number for obtaining further
information.”  (Id., § 2924j, subd. (d).)
 
Discussion 
 
Here, Petitioner has complied with all procedural requirements
outlined in Civil Code § 2924j and has demonstrated that, despite due
diligence, Petitioner is unable to distribute the surplus funds associated with
the non-judicial foreclosure sale of the subject property.  On September
15, 2023, Petitioner sent written notice to all persons with recorded interests
in the subject property by first-class mail informing each of the trustee’s
sale and the surplus funds.  (Podmenik Decl., Ex. A.)  On October 18,
2023, Petitioner sent a second written notice to all persons with recorded
interests in the subject property after Petitioner did not received a claim or
waiver of claim from priority junior lienholder, Raul Ruvalcaba.  (Id.,
Ex. B.)  To date, Petitioner has not received a claim or waiver of
claim from Raul Ruvalcaba.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-7.)  Petitioner
demonstrates that it exercised due diligence to determine the priority of
distribution of the surplus assets, however Petitioner is unable to do so due
to the absence of a claim or waiver of claim from the priority junior
lienholder.  (Ibid.; Petition, ¶ 8.)  Further,
Petitioner has properly sent written notice by first-class mail, postage
pre-paid informing all lienholders that Petitioner intends to deposit the
surplus funds with the clerk of the court and that a claim for the funds must
be filed with the court within 30 days from the date of the notice. 
(Podmenik Decl., Ex. D.)  Accordingly, Petitioner has complied with all
procedural requirements outlined in Civil Code § 2924j and has demonstrated
that, despite due diligence, Petitioner is unable to distribute the surplus
funds associated with the non-judicial foreclosure sale of the subject
property. 
 
 
 
 