 Case Number:  21STCV15757    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  C Rosa M. Kingsbury vs The Kroger Co., et al.
Case No.: 21STCV15757
Hearing Date: April 9, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#8
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
This action for premises liability was filed by Plaintiff
Rosa M. Kingsbury (“Plaintiff”) on April 27, 2021.  The operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) was filed on November 29, 2022. 
The SAC alleges that “[o]n or about April 24, 2020, plaintiff Rosa M.
Kingsbury was on the premises of defendants’ grocery store for the purpose of
purchasing groceries. Defendants maintained the premises in an unsafe condition
as pallets were present which were unstable and maintained in a manner where
customers could and were harmed. Plaintiff Rosa M. Kingsbury attempted to
obtain products and the pallet gave way causing serious physical injuries to
the plaintiff, including but not limited to a fractured hand.” (SAC ¶ 11.) “[P]laintiff entered Food4less with the intention and
purpose of purchasing food. Once injured as described above, Defendants
intentionally refused to provide her with assistance, refused to investigate
the claims, refused to call for medical services, refused to take an accident
claim, refused to treat her with dignity and respect, and when she asked for
help as she was injured, humiliated her by asking her “don’t you have kids to
help you?” (SAC ¶ 20.)  The SAC
alleges causes of action for 1) Negligence and 2) Violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act.  
Defendant RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY
dba FOOD 4 LESS (incorrectly named and served as THE KROGER CO.)
("Defendant") moves for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication on the following grounds: 1) as to the first cause of action for
negligence, the alleged dangerous condition was open and obvious, and 2) Plaintiff
is unable to establish one or more elements of the second cause of action.  
On February 6, 2024, the Court Continued the motion to this
date to allow Plaintiff to take outstanding depositions.  Subsequently, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
opposition and Defendant filed a supplemental reply.   
Evidentiary
Objections
As to Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company’s objections to the
Declaration of Ryan Radebach: 
Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, and 22 are OVERRULED.
Objection No. 19 is SUSTAINED.
As to Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company’s objections to the
Declaration of Rosa Kingsbury: 
Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 are OVERRULED. 
Legal Standard 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment “has
met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
Discussion 
Plaintiffs First Cause of Action for Negligence
In order to establish liability in premises liability
action, plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation and damages. (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Because the store owner
is not the insurer of the visitor’s personal safety, the owner’s actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing its
liability. (Moore v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472,
476.)
As to the first cause of action for negligence, Defendant
offers the following evidence:
·       
Plaintiff contends, on or about April 24, 2020,
she was on Defendant's premises when she attempted to carry a case of water to
her shopping cart. (UMF No. 1.)
·       
The wooden pallet holding the water was sitting
on the ground at the time. (UMF No. 2.) 
·       
The bottom portion of the pallet was painted
blue. (UMF No. 3.)
·       
The flooring underneath the pallet was not
blue. (UMF No. 4)
·       
Plaintiff put her right foot on top of the
wooden pallet right next to where the water was located. (UMF No. 5.)
·       
When she attempted to pick up a case of water,
a piece of wood on the pallet allegedly broke. (UMF No. 6.)
·       
Plaintiff allegedly lost her balance and fell
down. (UMF No. 7.)
·       
Plaintiff contends she injured her left hand in
the fall. (UMF No. 8.)
It is undisputed that Plaintiff put her right foot on the
wooden pallet, and when she attempted to pick up a case of water, a piece of
wood broke, causing Plaintiff to lose her balance and fall.  Thus, Defendant has introduced evidence that
suggests Plaintiff caused herself to fall after intentionally putting her foot
on the wooden pallet in order to obtain a case of water.  Based thereon,
Defendant has made a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.  The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  

In opposition to the motion, Plaintiff offers the
declaration of Ryan Radebach who opines that Defendants failed to provide a
safe walkway for patrons inside the store (PPMF Nos. 1-4), Defendant knew or
should have known that the subject pallet posed a significant hazard that
created a serious risk of harm on the day of the Plaintiff's fall (PPMF Nos.
5), and Defendant failed to take reasonable measures to avoid the hazard (PPMF
Nos. 7-11).  However, Mr. Radebach’s
opinion is based upon the understanding that “Plaintiff came in contact with
the pallet and then tripped and fell, sustaining injuries.” (Radebach
Decl., ¶ 9, italics added.)  Because the
evidence suggests Plaintiff intentionally placed her foot on the pallet, the
foundation for Mr. Radebach’s opinion – that Plaintiff tripped and fell over
the pallet – lacks evidentiary support.  
In her Supplemental Opposition, Plaintiff argues that
photos of the pallet demonstrate that it was cracked.  The Court has reviewed the photos, and it is
not apparent to the Court that the pallet was cracked anywhere that might have
caused Plaintiff to fall.  The Court
determines that Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact
as to the first cause of action.  
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for
Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
To establish an UNRUH violation, Plaintiff needs to show
that Defendant denied her access to a business establishment based on
intentional discrimination. (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc., (2009) 46 Cal. 4th 661,
664-665.)
The SAC alleges that ““[P]laintiff entered Food4less with
the intention and purpose of purchasing food. Once injured as described above,
Defendants intentionally refused to provide her with assistance, refused to
investigate the claims, refused to call for medical services, refused to take
an accident claim, refused to treat her with dignity and respect, and when she
asked for help as she was injured, humiliated her by asking her “don’t you have
kids to help you?” (SAC ¶ 20.)  
As to the second cause of action, Defendant offers the
following evidence:
·       
The manager asked Plaintiff if she wanted to
make a report. (UMF No. 11.)
·       
The manager then brought out forms for
Plaintiff to fill out. (UMF No. 12.)
·       
Plaintiff filled out the forms. (UMF No. 13.)
·       
The manager then instructed Plaintiff that
someone was going to call her about the accident. (UMF No. 14.)
·       
The manager then took a picture of Plaintiff's
left hand. (UMF No. 15.)
·       
Plaintiff never asked the manager to call
paramedics for her. (UMF No. 16.)
·       
Plaintiff was later able to obtain a copy of
the report. (UMF No. 17.)
·       
After speaking with the manager, Plaintiff
asked a security guard to remove water from her shopping cart. (UMF No. 21.)
·       
The security guard asked "Why? Don't you
have kids at home?" (UMF No. 22.)
·       
When Plaintiff informed him that she lived
alone, the security guard removed the water from her cart. (UMF No. 23.)
Based thereon, Defendant has made a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  
In opposition, Plaintiff offers to following evidence:
·       
Defendant caused plaintiff to obtain the
assistance of family members before they would provide her with the necessary
documents and authorization to seek treatment, as they intentionally ignored
her obvious injuries. (PSS ¶ 12; Kingsbury Decl., ¶ 4.)
·       
Defendant’s agents inquiry into plaintiff’s
marital status and family relationships caused her distress and humiliation.
(PSS ¶ 13; Kingsbury Decl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff argues she received differential treatment based
on her status as a single elderly woman when she suffered an injury.  She relies primarily on her interaction with a
security guard after she asked him to remove a case of water from her
cart.  The security guard asked, “Why
don’t you have kids at home?”  According
to Plaintiff, this question is evidence of discrimination based on her age, marital
status, and gender.  
The Court finds that the evidence submitted by Plaintiff fails
to show intentional discrimination by Defendant.  Defendant’s employees provided the incident
form to Plaintiff, photographed Plaintiff’s hand, and later provided her with a
copy of the report.  There is no
indication that the question asked by the security guard reflected the
attitudes of the store manager or other store employees, and any inference that
Defendant’s employees were motivated by discriminatory intent is speculative.  The Court recognizes that Plaintiff was
injured and felt humiliated by Defendant’s indifference towards her distress.  However, the Court determines that Plaintiff
has failed to show that this indifference was motivated by discrimination based
on age, marital status, or gender.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
