 Case Number:  24STCV02129    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



EDWARD ESTRADA, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
LIBERTY INSURANCE CORPORATION, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV02129    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024




 
 
The Court rules as follows:
 
(1) SUSTAINS
THE DEMURRER, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to Plaintiffs’ First and Second causes
of action as to Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Holding
Company, Inc., and Liberty Mutual Group, Inc. and;
 
(2) SUSTAINS
THE DEMURRER, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to Plaintiffs’ Fifth, Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth causes of action as to all Liberty Defendants.
 
            On
1/26/2024, Plaintiffs Edward Estrada and Yun Cui (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed suit against Liberty Insurance Corporation, Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company, Liberty Mutual Holding company, Liberty Mutual Group, Inc., and Daniel
Kiddoo, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of fiduciary
duties; (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200; (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED); (7) fraud; (8) negligent
misrepresentation; (9) concealment; and (10) violation of Consumer Legal
Remedies Act (CLRA). 
 
            Now,
Defendant Liberty Insurance Corporation, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company,
Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc., and Liberty Mutual Group, Inc.
(collectively, Liberty Defendants) demur to the first, second, fifth, and sixth,
seventh, eighth and ninth causes of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state claims as
to the first, second, fifth, and sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth causes of
action.
 
            As
for the first cause of action, the insurance policy in question was issued by
Defendant Liberty Insurance Corporation, and Plaintiff’s own Complaint alleges
the Policy was “provided and underwritten by Defendant LIBERTY INSURANCE
CORPORATION.” (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court agrees that Liberty
Insurance Corporation is the only party that can be liable for breach, and thus
Liberty Defendants’ demurrer must be sustained, without leave to amend, as to
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc., or Liberty
Mutual Group, Inc. (See, e.g., McKell v. Washington Mut., Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 (“A cause of action for breach of contract requires
pleading of a contract”). A nonparty to an insurance contract cannot be liable
for breach of that contract. (See, e.g., Henry v. Associated Indem.
Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1405, 1416-17 (where “[t]here was no direct
contractual relationship between [the parties],” there was no basis from which
“a breach of contract action could properly spring …”)
 
            As
to the second cause of action, as discussed above, a claim for breach of
contract requires the existence of a contract between the plaintiff and the
defendant. (McKell, 142 Cal.App.4th at p.1489.) Similarly, the existence
of a contract is necessary to allege breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. (See, e.g., Waller, 11 Cal. 4th at 36;
Rainbow Sandals, Inc., 2014 WL 12577084 at *3.) Here, the Complaint
specifically alleges that the Policy was “provided and underwritten by
Defendant LIBERTY INSURANCE CORPORATION.” (Complaint, ¶ 2.) As such, Liberty
Insurance Corporation is the only insurer that is a party to the contract and
that could theoretically be liable for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to Plaintiffs’
second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing is sustained, without leave to amend, as to Defendants Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc., and Liberty
Mutual Group, Inc.
 
            As
for the fifth cause of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
devoid of allegations that could show what allegedly unlawful, fraudulent, or
unlawful practices they complain of. Moreover, Plaintiff do not allege what injunctive,
equitable or restitutionary relief that would be available. However, even
assuming they did, an adequate legal remedy precludes a party from seeking
equitable relief. (See Knox v. Phoenix Leasing Inc. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1357, 1365.) 
 
            The
Court agrees this claim is not pled with the requisite specificity. Liberty
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend, as to this
claim.   
 
            As
for the sixth cause of action, Liberty Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts which could show extreme and outrageous conduct. While this is
typically a factual determination not properly decided at the pleading stage,
the Court’s conclusion that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege facts
which could show fraud or a violation of the Business and Professions Code
section 17200, leads the Court to sustain the demurrer, with 15 days leave to
amend, as to this claim as well. 
 
            As
for the seventh cause of action for fraud, Liberty Defendants argue that this
claim is not alleged with requisite specificity. The Court agrees. To support
this claim, Plaintiff alleges:
 
At the time
Defendants INSURER, AGENT and Does 1 through 100, and each of them, procured
the policy for Plaintiffs, and accepted Plaintiffs’ claims, they promised to
properly adjust and evaluate the damages, which costs would be covered.
Defendants INSURER and Does 1 through 50 assured Plaintiffs that they would pay
all covered losses and damages due under the policy including losses caused by
water and related damages. Defendants INSURER, AGENT and Does 1 through 100,
misrepresented to Plaintiffs that Defendants INSURER, AGENT, and Does 1 through
100’s true intent was to delay, limit, restrict and undervalue insurance
coverage in case of a water loss. Defendants, INSURER, AGENT and Does 1 through
100, concealed from Plaintiffs that Defendants INSURER, AGENT and Does 1
through 100, would delay, limit, reject, and fail to pay the proper values of
Plaintiffs’ claims based upon improper claims handling including Defendants
INSURER, AGENT and Does 1 through 100’s evaluations.” (Complaint, ¶ 75.)
 
 “In evaluating the existence of and extent and
nature of Plaintiffs’ damages and losses at the premises, Defendants INSURER,
AGENT and Does 1 through 100 on the dates stated in the factual allegations3 ,
misrepresented to Plaintiffs that Defendants INSURER, AGENT and Does 1 through
100 properly determined, based upon a complete, accurate or proper evaluation
of the extent and nature of Plaintiffs’ losses and damages.” (Complaint, ¶ 78.)
 
As a result
of the misrepresentation of material terms concerning policy coverage and, of
the evaluation and appraisal of Plaintiffs’ losses and damages same was not
disclosed and concealed and thereby misrepresented by Defendants INSURER, AGENT
and Does 1 through 100, to Plaintiffs.” Complaint, ¶ 79.)
 
            However,
the “factual allegation” section referred to by Plaintiff’s allegations does
not set forth any of the alleged misrepresentations nor does it identify any
dates of the alleged misrepresentations. Indeed, as noted by Liberty
Defendants, “the Complaint as a whole is entirely devoid of any dates
whatsoever—including the policy period, the date of the alleged loss, and the
dates any allegedly fraudulent statements were made….” (Motion, 18, fn 3.) The
Court agrees that Plaintiffs have failed to allege fraud with the requisite
specificity. 
 
            As
for the eighth and ninth causes of action for negligent misrepresentation and
concealment, the Court similarly finds that the causes of actions are not pled
with the requisite specificity. The specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013)
214 Cal. App. 4th 780, 793.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court: (1) sustains the demurrer, without leave to amend,
as to Plaintiffs’ First and Second causes of action as to Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc., and Liberty Mutual
Group, Inc. and (2) sustains the demurrer, with 15 days leave to amend, as to
Plaintiffs’ Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth causes of action as to all
Liberty Defendants. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
            