  Case Number:  19STCV39580    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TERRY
  HERRERA and TEODORA HERRERA 
                           
         vs.
 
FULL
  CIRCLE REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS, INC, et al.  
 
                                         
  Defendants. 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV39580
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 22, 2024



 
            Plaintiff’s motion for attorney fees
is CONTINUED, to allow in camera production of unredacted billing
records. 
 
On 11/24/2020, Plaintiffs Terry Herrera and Teodora Herrera
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Full Circle Real Estate
Solutions, Inc., Danny Elia the Mum Group, Marvin U. Mangabat, and Erik
Lederman, alleging: (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2) concealment; (3)
negligent misrepresentation; (4) conversion; (5) rescission; (6) cancellation
of written instrument; (7) quiet title; (8) violation of Civil Code section
2945, et seq.; (9) financial elder abuse; and (10) declaratory relief. 
 
            On 4/3/2024, Plaintiff moved for
attorney fees totaling $604,953.35.
 
Legal
Standard
 
The party claiming attorneys’ fees must establish entitlement to
such fees and the reasonableness of the fees claimed.  (Civic
Western Corporation v. Zila Industries, Inc. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 1, 16.)
“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the
measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to
the agreement, express or implied, of the parties[.]” (CCP § 1021.)
 
“It is well established that the determination of what constitutes
reasonable attorney fees is committed to the discretion of the trial court,
whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence of an abuse of
discretion.”  (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.)  In exercising its
discretion, the court should consider a number of factors, including the nature
of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required in
handling the matter, the attention given, the success or failure, and the
resulting judgment.  (Ibid.) 
 
In determining what constitutes a reasonable compensation for an
attorney who has rendered services in connection with a legal proceeding, the
court may and should consider the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the
amount involved, the skill required and the skill employed in handling the
litigation, the attention given, the success of the attorneys’ efforts, their
learning, their age, and their experience in the particular type of work
demanded the intricacies and importance of the litigation, the labor and
necessity for skilled legal training and ability in trying the cause, and the
time consumed. (Stokus v. Marsh (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 647, 657 (Stokus).) 
 
In determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the
lodestar method.  The lodestar figure is
calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the
reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to
its determination … [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable
hourly compensation of each attorney … in the presentation of the case.”  (Serrano
v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano
III).)  A reasonable hourly rate must
reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id.
at 49.)  “Prevailing
parties are compensated for hours reasonably spent on fee-related
issues.  A fee request that appears
unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to
reduce the award or deny one altogether.” 
(Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32
Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano IV); see
also Weber v. Langholz (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 1578, 1587 (“The trial court could make its own evaluation of the
reasonable worth of the work done in light of the nature of the case, and of
the credibility of counsel’s declaration unsubstantiated by time records and
billing statements.”)
 
Reasonable attorney fees should be based on an
objective standard of reasonableness, i.e., the market value of services
rendered, not on some notion of cost incurred. (PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1090.)  The value of legal services performed in a
case is a matter in which the trial court has its own expertise.  (Id.
at 1096.)  The trial court may make its
own determination of the value of the services contrary to, or without the
necessity for, expert testimony.  (Ibid.) 
The
trial court makes its determination after consideration of a number of factors,
including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount involved,
the skill required in its handling, the skill employed, the attention given,
the success or failure, and other circumstances in the case.  (Ibid.)
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiffs seek $604,953.35 in
attorney fees from Defendants. This does not include fees related to litigation
with Interpleaders. 
 
            In opposition, Defendants challenge
these fees, on the basis that: (1) $256,285.45 of the fees were incurred by
predecessor counsel and have not been properly authenticated or shown to be
reasonable; (2) the remaining $348,668 were not reasonably incurred. 
 
            As for the first contention,
Defendants argue that “the Court should disallow all of the fees associated
with predecessor counsel as they are not properly authenticated by a qualified
affiant who can attest to the necessity and reasonableness of said fees.”
(Opp., 2: 1-3.) However, Defendants do not identify any legal authority which
would suggest that Plaintiffs are obligated to obtain declarations from
predecessor counsel in submission with this motion. (“This failure to cite
pertinent legal authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins
v. State of California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived
by failure to cite legal authority). 
 
Moreover, Defendant does not contend that the entirety of the
billings from predecessor counsel were unreasonable or are not authentic
documents. Plaintiff submitted the billing records of predecessor counsel which
allows the Court to specifically assess the reasonableness of those billing
entries, separate and apart from whether or not predecessor counsel claims they
are reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court considers both the billing records of
predecessor counsel and current counsel for purposes of this motion. 
 
However, in opposition, Defendants argue that the fee amount should
be reduced because there are “numerous items” which are redacted and which make
it impossible for Defendants to determine the reasonableness and necessity of
said fees. However, the solution to such a problem is not to strike these fees
but to require in camera production of the non-redacted records to allow
the Court to assess the reasonableness of the billings. Given the degree of
redactions, the Court finds that such production is necessary to determine the
reasonableness of the hours billed. 
 
Accordingly, the Court declines to determine the reasonableness of
the hourly rates claimed or the hours billed for, until the unredacted records
have been reviewed.  
 
            Plaintiffs are instructed to produce
unredacted billing records for this Court’s review. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court continues this motion to allow
for in camera review of the unredacted billing records.  
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
May    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 