 Case Number:  22STCV22638    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 7/13/2022 ¿¿ ¿¿¿ Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling ¿¿ Hearing Date:  4/9/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name.: 22STCV22638 LYONELL P. HENSON, et al. vs BALDWIN GARDENS, INC, et al. Motion: Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint Moving Party: DEFENDANTS BALDWIN BROTHERS, INC., BALDWIN GARDENS, INC. Responding Party: Unopposed Notice: Sufficient ¿¿¿¿ Ruling: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED  ¿ On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present case alleging that Dwight Antwan Gibbs (Gibbs) assaulted and robbed him on premises owned by Defendants/Cross-complainants Baldwin Gardens, Inc. and Baldwin Brothers, Inc. (the “Baldwin Defendants”). From Plaintiff's discovery responses, the Baldwin Defendants learned that Gibbs was responsible for the assault and robbery that took place on their property. Consequently, on September 14, 2023, the Baldwin Defendants filed the present motion, seeking leave to file a cross-complaint against Gibbs. Although the Court found good cause for granting leave, the motion was continued several times due to the Baldwin Defendants' failure to adhere to procedural rules for seeking leave to file a cross-complaint, the latest being when the hearing was continued from March 6, 2024, because the Baldwin Defendants failed to provide the Court with a copy of the proposed cross-complaint. On March 7, 2024, the Baldwin Defendants complied with the Court's order and filed the proposed cross-complaint. Having examined the proposed cross complaint, the Court finds that leave is mandatory as the Baldwin Defendants’ allegations "arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which Plaintiff alleges in his complaint." (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c); see also Crocker National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) Thus, the Baldwin Defendants' motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is granted.  The cross-complaint must be filed within 7 days of this order.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  