 Case Number:  21STCV19391    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling ¿¿ Hearing Date:  4/9/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 21STCV19391 PEDRAM PANAHI vs ALEJANDRO BARRAZA MENDEZ, Motion: MOTIONS TO COMPEL AND FOR SANCTIONS Moving Party: Defendant Hannah McCormack Responding Party: Plaintiff Notice:   Sufficient ¿ Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE, ARE DENIED. MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  Background  On May 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present auto accident case. On December 8, 2023, Defendant Hannah McCormack served Requests for Admission, Set One, Requests for Production, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff. Plaintiff served responses to the discovery requests at issue on January 9, 2023. Plaintiff’s responses to Requests for Production consist of only objections, responses to Form Interrogatories contained only fact-specific responses, and responses to Requests for Admission consist of objections and fact-specific responses to each request. The discovery responses were unverified, and Defendant gave Plaintiff 10 days to provide the verifications. After receiving no verifications, Defendant moves the Court to compel verified discovery responses to the requests at issue. Defendant argues that the motion should be denied because there was no meet and confer, no informal discovery conference held, and verified responses have already been served. Legal Standard  Requests for Production and Interrogatories  A plaintiff may make a demand for production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action and, upon declaration, any additional number of official form interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿ The party whom the request is propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a) - (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿ If a party fails to timely respond to a request for production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)¿¿The party propounding the discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to compel initial discovery responses does not have any meet and confer requirements.¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿¿¿A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)  Request for Admissions  “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a). ¿¿ If a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer requirements.  Hybrid Responses Verifications are generally required, unless the response “contain[s] only objections.” (See §§ 2030.250(a), 2031.250(a) and 2033.240(a).) Unverified responses to discovery are tantamount to no responses at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632.) When a discovery response served within the statutory deadline includes both objections and unverified fact-specific answers, verification is not necessary for the objections to be deemed timely. There is no requirement for objections to be verified and objections must be considered timely notwithstanding the lack of verification. (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 657.) Only the fact-specific responses must be verified. A party may file a motion for orders and sanctions regarding a portion of the response that contains unverified fact-specific responses. This does not constitute a waiver of objections. The only scenario where a lack of verification leads to both an untimely response and a waiver of objections is if the initial, unverified response served within the timeline does not contain any objections. (Id.) Analysis For a motion to compel initial responses, meet and confer and an IDC is not required. These are requirements for a motion to compel further. However, Plaintiff, in its opposition, stated that verified responses were provided prior to the hearing, and Defendant, in the reply, does not dispute this. Thus, the present motions to compel are moot and therefore DENIED. The matter of sanctions still remains at issue. Since Plaintiff's responses to requests for admission consist only of objections, Plaintiff was not required to serve verifications. Thus, the sanction relating to the Request for Admission is DENIED. However, Plaintiff's responses to requests for production and form interrogatories are fact-specific and therefore required verification. Plaintiff’s lack of verification compelled Defendant to incur attorney fees to file the present motions. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $735.00 per motion. The Court finds this amount reasonable. The Court ORDERS Plaintiff and his counsel, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $1470 to Defendant within 20 days of today’s date.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿ ¿¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. ¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 