  Case Number:  21STCV02938    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 1/25/2021 Trial Date: 7/15/2024 ¿¿¿ Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling ¿¿ Hearing Date:  4/9/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 21STCV02938 HEDYEH HAMEDANIZADEH vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES Motion: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED COMPLAINT Moving Party: Plaintiff Responding Party: Defendant Glenoaks Business Park Notice:   Sufficient ¿ Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED COMPLAINT IS DENIED  Background On January 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed the current trip and fall lawsuit, claiming she tripped over a bolt protruding from the concrete in the driveway of a property owned by Defendant GLENOAKS BUSINESS PARK and occupied by Defendant COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES. Plaintiff asserts that recent depositions of GLENOAKS' person most knowledgeable (PMK) and written discovery have unveiled facts that justify punitive damages. Plaintiff is now requesting the Court's approval to amend the complaint to seek punitive damages against Defendant GLENOAKS. Defendant argues that Plaintiff had knowledge of the facts supporting punitive damages for over two years but chose to seek an amendment only several months before the scheduled trial date.  Standard  When a party moves to amend a pleading, “courts generally should permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In ruling on this type of motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of prejudice the court is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope with a potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been revealed during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should look for delays in the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive increase in the costs of preparation and other similar circumstances that create prejudice to another party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.)  A motion to amend a pleading before trial must state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(3).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) Analysis Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration, incorrectly titled a “Declaration for Additional Discovery,” to support the Motion.  The Declaration fails to specify when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b)(3).)  In the Motion, Plaintiff cites multiple pieces of evidence to support the punitive damages allegations: a deposition on February 26, 2024, a request for admissions served on November 6, 2023, and another deposition on November 21, 2022. It remains unclear, however, whether the facts justifying punitive damages were discovered in 2022 or 2024. Moreover, and most significantly, Plaintiff failed to offer justifications in the declaration for the delay in seeking the amendment, as required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b)(4). Additionally, Plaintiff did not specify what specific allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, nor did Plaintiff  detail the exact location of the proposed additions by page, paragraph, and line number. The motion conveys Plaintiff's intention to amend the complaint to include punitive damages against Defendant Glenoaks and to add certain facts supporting the prayer for punitive damages. However, Plaintiff failed to specify in the Declaration these facts. Thus, the present motion is denied without prejudice for failure to comply with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿     