 Case Number:  22STCV32585    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  30 MARIO BENITO CUEVA RAMIREZ vs GURDEEP SINGH DHATT, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, request for production, and motion to deem matters admitted in requests for admission are GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified responses to the form interrogatories and request for production at issue within 20 days.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in connection with the motion to deem requests for admissions admitted is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $560, within 20 days of this order.Moving Party to give notice.Legal StandardCompel InterrogatoriesIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)Deem RFAs Admitted“If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: The requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted…. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The Court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect…. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(a).) The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)Compel RPDsWhere there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.SanctionsSanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions as true. Sanctions are also mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c), 2033.280(c).)DiscussionOn January 5, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents, and Request for Admissions, Sets One, on Defendant Dhatt. (Beloryan Decl., Exhs. A.) Dhatt served unverified responses. To date, Plaintiff has not received verified responses to the discovery. (Id., ¶ 9.)In opposition, Defendant argues that due to the severity of his injuries from the collision, he has no recollection of the accident. Despite Dhatt’s lack of recollection of the accident, Plaintiff still received substantive responses and all of the documents from which the responses were derived, which were also verified by Defendant All Seasons in its responses to essentially the same discovery requests. Defendant therefore argues that he is not qualified to verify responses because he lacks the personal knowledge required, as a person cannot verify based upon information and belief alone. Defendant argues that Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.220(c) states that “[i]f the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” While Dhatt lacks the requisite knowledge required to verify responses, the responses served on his behalf fully comply with C.C.P. § 2030.220(c) by relying upon documents that were verified by All Seasons.However, Defendant provides no authority that his lack of knowledge excuses the requirement to verify discovery. Further, it appears an extension was given to respond by April 14, 2023, and that is the date the responses were provided. (Booth Decl., Exh. B.) As such, the objections in the responses have been preserved. Nevertheless, the portion that contained answers were not verified. Unverified responses are tantamount to no response. Thus, as Plaintiff properly served discovery requests and Defendant has failed to serve verified responses, the Court finds Plaintiff is entitled to a court order directing Defendant to provide verified responses. The Court also finds Plaintiff is entitled to an order establishing the truth of the matters in the request for admissions served on Defendant. Therefore, the motions are granted.Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters specified in a request for admissions as true. (CCP section 2033.280(c).) Nevertheless, the amount requested for sanctions is not reasonable for this straight-forward motion. Rather, theCourt imposes sanctions against Defendant and counsel of record in the amount of $560 ($500 an hour, for one hour, plus $60 in filing fees), to be paid within 20 days of this order.ConclusionAccordingly, Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, request for production, and motion to deem matters admitted in requests for admission are GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified responses to the form interrogatories and request for production of documents at issue within 20 days. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in connection with the motion to deem requests for admissions admitted is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $560, within 20 days of this order.