 Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  30 NANETTE PRICE vs CAL- QUAKE CONSTRUCTION, INC., A CORPORATION, et al.TENTATIVEDefendants John Michael Taferner, and Joseph Goldberger’s motion to compel an independent medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to submit to an IME with neurologist Dr. Ludwig on March 19, 2024, at 10:30 a.m., at 2811 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 508 in Santa Monica, CA.Both parties’ request for sanctions in connection with the motion to compel the IME is DENIED.Defendant Salvatore Martinez’s motion for sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,250 within 20 days to Defendant Martinez’s counsel.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2032.220(a) provides:In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.(2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.CCP section 2031.310 states:(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with¿Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under¿Section 2016.040.(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.CCP section 2032.320(a) provides: “The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under¿Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.”“Section 2036 defines a showing of ‘good cause’ as requiring that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior. Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)The motion must state the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, and the "manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination." (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).) “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320(d).)The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP § 2032.020(a).) This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer].) Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)DiscussionI. Motion to Compel IMEDefendants John Michael Taferner, and Joseph Goldberger move to compel Plaintiff to undergo an independent medical examination (IME) with neurologist Dr. Barry Ludwig. In the alternative, Defendants move for an order allowing an additional examination of Plaintiff, arguing there is good cause because Plaintiff has placed her neurological condition at issue by making ongoing neurological complaints, and has designated rheumatologists, and neurologists as experts. Plaintiff asserts she sustained the following injuries as a result of the accident: whiplash; neck pain; concussion; post-concussive syndrome; headaches; traumatic brain injury; back pain; cervical radiculopathy; fatigue; tinnitus; pain; suffering; emotional distress; mental anguish; anxiety; discomfort; depression; fibromyalgia; dysautonomia. (Hawkins Decl., Exh. 2, no. 6.2.)On or about October 6, 2023, Co-Defendants Martinez and Cal-Quake demanded Plaintiff attend a physical rheumatological examination conducted by Daniel Wallace, M.D. on December 6, 2023. This examination went forward. (Id., ¶ 14.)Defendants argue a neuropsychological examination is a mental examination. Co-Defendant Martinez brought a motion to compel the neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff by George Henry, Ph.D, and such motion was heard and granted on December 6, 2023. Plaintiff was ordered to attend such examination on December 21, 2023. (Id., ¶ 15.)Plaintiff argues that Defendants, collectively, are only entitled to one medical examination of Plaintiff and that the Defendants have already had Dr. Wallace examine Plaintiff, and Dr. Henry will examine Plaintiff as well. Next, Plaintiff argues an examination with Dr. Ludwig would cumulative and duplicative to Dr. Henry’s neuropsychology examination.Plaintiff has provided no authority for the proposition that Defendants are collectively only entitled to one IME of Plaintiff. In any event, even if that were the case, Defendants have shown good cause for a neurological IME. Although aspects of Dr. Henry’s examination may overlap with Dr. Ludwig’s examination, neuropsychology is a different specialty than neurology. Further, neurology is also a different specialty than rheumatology. Moreover, Plaintiff has retained her own neurology and rheumatology experts. As such, Defendants have shown good cause to compel a neurological examination with Dr. Ludwig. The motion is granted.SanctionsThe court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.250, subdivision (b).)The Court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification in refusing to appear for her IME due to the multiple other examinations in this matter, and due to what appears to be a good faith dispute about whether Defendants are entitled to one IME collectively. Thus, Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also DENIED.II. Motion to Compel Payment of Late Cancellation Fees and Discovery Abuse SanctionsDefendant Martinez moves for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff under CCP sections 2023.030, and 2032.410 for failing to appear for the December 21, 2023 IME.On November 6, 2023, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s IME, set for December 21, 2023. (Balich Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Plaintiff was notified that if the "examination is cancelled by Plaintiff with less than 72 hours (three workdays) of the noticed date, the cancellation fee of $ 3,250 incurred will be assessed against Plaintiff." (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel waited until the night of December 18, 2023, only 2 1/2 days before the examination, to notify Defendant's counsel of this cancellation based on "commitments." (Id., Exh. C.) Counsel's representation concerning Plaintiff’s previously scheduled commitments was made again on the morning of December 19, 2023. (Id., Exh. D.) Later, it was converted to a representation concerning a COVID diagnosis by co-counsel for Plaintiff. (Id.) Based on Dr. Henry's policy, the Independent Medical Examination cannot be rescheduled until payment of the late cancellation fee. (Balich Decl., ¶ 10; Reply, Exh. B.) Additionally, counsel for defendant is liable for the cancellation fee pursuant to the professional services agreement that was signed with Dr. Henry for his retention in this case. (Id.)CCP section 2032.410 states: If a party is required to submit to a physical or mental examination under Articles 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210) or (commencing with Section 2032.310), or under Section 2016.030, but fails to do so, the court, on motion of the party entitled to the examination, may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction. In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may, on motion of the party, impose a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2032.410.)Plaintiff has filed a late opposition, and the Court exercises its discretion to disregard it. Even if the Court were to consider the untimely opposition, Plaintiffs’ argument that Defendant refused to comply with the Court order allowing the examination to take place on a mutually convenient date is without merit. While there was an option to schedule the IME for a mutually convenient date, Plaintiff should have cancelled prior to the 72-hour cancellation window to avoid being charged a cancellation fee. Further, Plaintiff’s argument that there is no bill from Dr. Henry is also without merit as Defendant has submitted his agreement with Dr. Henry which supports counsel’s statement that based on Dr. Henry's policy, the IME cannot be rescheduled until payment of the late cancellation fee. Defendant should not have to bear the cost of the cancellation fee when it was Plaintiff who failed to cancel within 72 hours as provided in the notice.As such, Defendant’s request for sanctions amounting to $3,250 for cancellation within 72 hours is GRANTED. The Court orders Plaintiff to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,250 within 20 days to Defendant Martinez’s counsel.ConclusionTherefore, Defendants John Michael Taferner, and Joseph Goldberger’s motion to compel an independent medical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to submit to an IME with neurologist Dr. Ludwig on March 19, 2024, at 10:30 a.m., at 2811 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 508 in Santa Monica, CA. Both parties’ request for sanctions in connection with the motion to compel the IME is DENIED.Defendant Salvatore Martinez’s motion for sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,250 within 20 days to Defendant Martinez’s counsel.Moving party is ordered to give notice.