  Case Number:  21STCV33017    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  9  
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Spring
Street Courthouse, Department 9
 



 
PRISCILLA AGUILAR, JULIAN HARO, JUAN MADERA, and RICHARD NUNEZ; et
  al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
owens-brockway glass container, inc.; et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  21STCV33017 (consolidated with
  21STCV41922)
 
 
  Hearing Date:  January 21, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
 
Non-party lucio lemus, jr.’s motion to
  vacate judgment and enter different judgment
 
 



 
Background
            This is a wage and hour class
action. Defendant Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. (“Defendant”)
manufactures and sells glass containers. 
On September 8, 2021, Plaintiffs Pricilla Aguilar, Julian Haro, Juan
Madera, and Richard Nunez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a putative
wage-and-hour class action lawsuit against Defendant (the “Class Complaint”). 
The Class Complaint asserts causes of
action for: (1) failure to pay minimum wages; (2) failure to pay overtime; (3)
failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to authorize and permit rest
breaks; (5) failure to timely pay wages owed upon separation from employment;
(6) failure to furnish accurate itemized wage statements; (7) violation of the
unfair competition law; and (8) failure to reimburse necessary expenses. 
On November 15, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a
separate Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, Labor Code § 2698, et seq.
(“PAGA”) representative action lawsuit against Defendant (the “PAGA
Complaint”).  On March 1, 2023, the
parties filed a notice of settlement and joint stipulation to file a first
amended complaint consolidating the Class Complaint and the PAGA
Complaint.  
On December 6, 2021, Defendant filed a
Notice of Removal to the Central District of California pursuant to 28 U.S.C.
§§ 1441, 1446, and 1453, asserting jurisdiction under the Class Action Fairness
Act (“CAFA”), 28 U.S.C. §§ 1332(d). 
Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, on
April 12, 2023, the parties filed a First Amended Complaint consolidating the
Class Complaint and the PAGA Complaint (together the “Aguilar Action”).  No party has ever filed a notice of related
cases seeking to relate the Lemus Action (20STCV44110) with the instant
action (21STCV33017).
On December 14, 2023, the Court – presided
by the Honorable Yvette M. Palazuelos – granted Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s
(jointly the “Parties”) motion for preliminary approval of the settlement
agreement.  (Order 12/14/23.)  On June 18, 2024, the Parties filed a motion
for final approval of the settlement agreement. 

On July 8, 2024, non-party Lucio Lemus,
Jr. (“Lemus Jr.”) filed a motion for leave to intervene.  On August 20, 2024, the Court denied Lemus Jr.’s
motion for leave to intervene.  (Order
8/20/24.)  
On September 12, 2024, the Court granted
the Parties motion for final approval of the settlement agreement.  (Final Ruling Re: Final Approval of Class
Action Settlement 9/12/24.)  On September
25, 2024, the Court entered judgment pursuant to the Parties settlement
agreement.  On October 21, 2024,
non-party Lemus Jr. filed a notice of appeal of the August 20, 2024 Order
denying intervention.  
On December 11, 2024, non-party Lemus Jr.
filed the instant motion to vacate judgment and enter different judgment.  On January 6, 2025, the Parties filed a joint
opposition.  On January 14, 2025,
non-party Lemus Jr. filed a reply.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
In conjunction with the moving papers,
non-party Lemus Jr. requests that the Court take judicial notice of the
following:
A.   
The complaint in Lemus v.
Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc., Los Angeles County Superior Court
Case No. 20STCV44110 (“Lemus Action”), dated November 13, 2020
B.   
PAGA Notice dated July 23, 2020, submitted
on behalf of Louis Cesar Lemus to the California Labor & Workforce
Development Agency
C.   
Defendant Owens-Brockway Glass Container
Inc.’s Notice of Removal of the Lemus Action to the United States
District Court, Central District of California, Case No. 2:21-cv-146 (“the Lemus
Federal Action”)
D.   
Order Granting Motion for Substitution of
Party Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 25, filed in the Lemus Federal Action
E.   
Order Remanding Action for Lack of Subject
Matter Jurisdiction, filed in the Lemus Federal Action
F.    
Judgment in the Lemus Action
G.   
Notice of Appeal in the Lemus
Action
H.   
The Class Complaint in the instant action
I.     
The PAGA Complaint in the instant action
J.     
The operative First Amended Complaint in
the instant Aguilar Action
K.   
Notice of Motion and Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA Action Settlement, filed in the Aguilar
Action
L.   
Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA
Action Settlement, filed in the Aguilar Action
M.  
Declaration of Priscilla Aguilar in
Support of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA Action Settlement,
filed in the Aguilar Action
N.   
Declaration of Juan Madera in
Support of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA Action Settlement,
filed in the Aguilar Action

O.   
Declaration Of James R. Hawkins in Support
of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA Action Settlement, filed
in the Aguilar Action
a.    
Joint Stipulation of Class Action
Settlement and Release of Claims, filed in the Aguilar Action
b.    
Notice of Class Action Settlement, filed
in the Aguilar Action
P.    
Proof of Service of Motion for Preliminary
Approval papers, filed in the Aguilar Action
Q.   
Final Rulings/Orders Re: Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement; Addendum (checklist), filed in
the Aguilar Action
R.   
Supplemental Declaration of James R.
Hawkins in Support of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class and PAGA Action
Settlement, filed in the Aguilar Action
a.    
Amended Joint Stipulation of Class Action
Settlement and Release of Claims, filed in the Aguilar Action
S.    
Final Rulings/Orders Re: Motion For
Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement, filed in the Aguilar
Action
T.   
Plaintiffs’ Notice of: 1. Ruling Re:
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement; 2.
Notice of Deadline of Filing Motion For Final Approval; Case Review, filed in
the Aguilar Action
U.   
Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion and Motion
for Final Approval of Class Action and PAGA Settlement and Award of Attorneys’
Fees, Costs, and Class Representative Service Award, filed in the Aguilar
Action
V.   
Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement and
Award of Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Class Representative Incentive Payment,
filed in the Aguilar Action
W. 
Declaration of James R. Hawkins in Support
of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement and Award
of Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Class Representative Incentive Payment, filed in
the Aguilar Action
X.   
Declaration of Julian Haro in Support of
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Final Approval of Class and PAGA Action Settlement and
Award of Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Class Representative Service Award, filed
in the Aguilar Action
Y.   
Declaration of Richard Nunez in Support of
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement and Award of
Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Class Representative Service Award, filed in the Aguilar
Action
Z.   
Declaration of Irvin Garcia on Behalf of
CPT Group, Inc. Regarding Settlement Administration and Notice, filed in the Aguilar
Action
AA.       
Notice of Order, filed in the Aguilar
Action
BB.        
Order Granting Final Approval of Class
Action and PAGA Settlement and Entry of Judgment, filed in the Aguilar Action\
CC.        
Declaration Of Sidney Gleason in Support
of Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, filed in the United States District
Court for the Central District of California, Case No. 2:21-cv-00146-FLA-AFM
 
In conjunction with the opposition, the
Parties request that the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.     Defendant
Owens-Brockway Glass Container Inc’s Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment and the concurrently filed Memorandum of Points and Authorities, filed
in the action entitled Lemus v. Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc.,
filed first in United States District Court for the Central District of
California Case No. 2:21-cv-146, and subsequently filed in California Superior
Court, County of Los Angeles Case No: 20STCV44110 (the “Lemus Action”)
2.     Minute
Order Granting Motion for Summary Judgment, filed in the Lemus Action,
in California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles Case No: 20STCV44110
3.     Parties’
Joint Response in Opposition to Motion for Leave to Intervene by Proposed
Intervenor Lucio Lemus, Jr, filed in the instant Aguilar Action.
4.     Declaration
of James R. Hawkins in Support of Response in Opposition to Motion for Leave to
Intervene by Proposed Intervenor Lucio Lemus, Jr. in the Aguilar Action
5.     August
20, 2024 Order Denying Motion for Intervention in the instant Aguilar
Action
6.     September
12, 2024 Order Granting Final Approval of Class Action and PAGA Settlement and
Entry of Judgment in the instant Aguilar Action
7.     Notice
of Entry of Order and Judgment filed in the instant Aguilar Action
8.     Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint filed in the instant Aguilar Action
The Court may take judicial notice of
court records. (See Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
Accordingly, the nonparty Lemus Jr.’s and the Parties’ unopposed requests
for judicial notice are GRANTED. 
However, the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of
assertions within. (See Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
 
Legal
Standard
            “[O]ne who is legally ‘aggrieved’ by
a judgment may become a party of record and obtain a right to appeal by moving
to vacate the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 663.”  (County of Alameda v. Carleson (1971)
5 Cal.3d 730, 736.)  “One is considered
‘aggrieved’ whose rights or interests are injuriously affected by the
judgment.”  (Id. at p.737.)  The non-party’s interest “‘must be immediate,
pecuniary, and substantial and not nominal or a remote consequence of the
judgment.’”  (Ibid.)  
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 663 a “party aggrieved” may move for a judgment “to be set aside
and vacated ... and another and different judgment entered, ... materially
affecting the substantial rights of the party and entitling the party to a
different judgment.”  (CCP § 663.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 663 provides
two grounds to vacate a judgment: “(1) Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for
the decision, not consistent with or not supported by the facts…” and “(2) A
judgment or decree not consistent with or not supported by the special
verdict.”  (CCP § 663.)  


Discussion
         Non-party Lemus Jr. moves the Court to vacate
– in part –  the “September 25, 2024
Order Granting Final Approval Of Class Action And PAGA Settlement And Entry of
Judgment because it is based on an unlawful PAGA Period for claims brought
under PAGA negotiated for no consideration, and issue a new order reinstating
the original PAGA Period as commencing on September 11, 2020.”  (Motion at p.9:21-24.)  However, (1) the Court lacks jurisdiction to vacate
the judgment, and (2) non-party Lemus Jr. is not a “party aggrieved” and has no
standing to move to vacate the judgment in the instant action.
 
Lemus
Jr.’s Appeal’s Divests this Court of Jurisdiction to Hear the Instant Motion
“Under [Code of Civil Procedure] section
916, ‘the trial court is divested of’ subject matter jurisdiction over any
matter embraced in or affected by the appeal during the pendency of that
appeal.”  (Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 196–197.) “The purpose of the
automatic stay under section 916 is to preserve ‘the status quo until the
appeal is decided’ [Citation], by maintaining 'the rights of the parties in the
same condition they were before the order was made[.]” [Citation]. Otherwise,
the trial court could render the ‘appeal futile by altering the appealed
judgment or order by conducting other proceedings that may affect it.’”  (Id. at p.198.)  “ ‘[W]hether a matter is “embraced” in or
“affected” by a judgment [or order] within the meaning of [section 916] depends
on whether postjudgment [or postorder] proceedings on the matter would have any
effect on the “effectiveness” of the appeal.’ [Citation.] ‘If so, the
proceedings are stayed; if not, the proceedings are permitted.’ [Citations.]”  (Cunningham v. Magidow (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 298, 304.)
Here, on July 8, 2024, Lemus Jr. moved to
“intervene into the instant Aguilar Action to enjoin the final approval
of the Amended Settlement Agreement or alternatively to request that the
Court order that the April 6, 2020 to September 11, 2020 portion of the PAGA
period – as defined in the Amended Settlement Agreement – be
stricken.  (Supp. Stahle Decl. ¶ 2, Exh.
L [Proposed First Amended Complaint in Intervention at Prayer for Relief ¶ 1].)”  (Request for Judicial Notice “RJN” Exh. 5
[August 20, 2024 Order at p.5:8-12], [bold and italics added].)  Thus, by way of intervention, Lemus Jr.
sought to change the beginning of the PAGA period from April 6, 2020 to
September 11, 2020.  
On August 20, 2024, the Court denied the
motion.  (RJN Exh. 5.)  On September 25, 2024, the Court entered
judgment pursuant to the Parties’ settlement with the PAGA period starting from
April 6, 2020.  (RJN Exh. BB [Final
Judgment at ¶ 4].)  On October 21, 2024,
Lemus Jr. filed an appeal of the August 20, 2024 Order, perfecting the appeal
and staying all matters embraced or affected by the August 20, 2024 Order.  (CCP § 916(a); Varian Medical Systems,
Inc., supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp.196–197.) 
Lemus Jr. sought to intervene to change the beginning of the PAGA period
from April 6, 2020 to September 11, 2020. (RJN Exh. 5 [August 20, 2024 Order at
p.5:8-12].)  Thus, if the Court were to
grant Lemus Jr.’s instant motion to vacate the judgment and enter a new
judgment setting the PAGA Period as commencing on September 11, 2020, Lemus
Jr’s appeal would be mooted because the relief he sought by intervening –
changing the PAGA Period starting date – would have already been provided
negating the need to intervene. 
Accordingly, the instant motion is clearly a matter “embraced in” or
“affected” by the appeal for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 916.  Thus, the Court lacks jurisdiction to rule on
the instant motion.  
 
Lemus Jr. Lacks Standing to Vacate
the Judgment
            Even
presuming the Court was not divested of jurisdiction to rule on the instant
motion, non-party Lemus Jr. lacks standing to vacate the judgment.
            “[O]ne
who is legally ‘aggrieved’ by a judgment may become a party of record and
obtain a right to appeal by moving to vacate the judgment pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure, section 663.”  (County
of Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 736.)  “One is considered ‘aggrieved’ whose rights
or interests are injuriously affected by the judgment.”  (Id. at p.737.)  The non-party’s interest “‘must be immediate,
pecuniary, and substantial and not nominal or a remote consequence of the
judgment.’”  (Ibid.)  
Lemus Jr. opted out of the Class
Settlement portion of the Settlement Agreement. (RJN Exh. [Hawkins 7/31/24
Decl. ¶ 10].)  Thus, Lemus Jr. is not
bound by the Class Settlement portion of the Settlement Agreement or otherwise injuriously
affected by the judgment affirming the Class Settlement portion of the
Settlement Agreement.  (See e.g., Hernandez v. Restoration Hardware, Inc. (2018) 4 Cal.5th 260, 264.)  As
to the remaining PAGA portion of the judgment, Lemus Jr. is not an “aggrieved
party” that can move to vacate the judgment. 
The
Supreme Court’s opinion in Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664
is decisive.  Turrieta “involve[d]
what has become a common scenario in PAGA litigation: multiple persons claiming
to be an ‘aggrieved employee’ within the meaning of PAGA file separate and
independent lawsuits seeking recovery of civil penalties from the same employer
for the same alleged Labor Code violations. Tina Turrieta, Brandon Olson, and
Million Seifu each worked as a driver for Lyft, Inc. (Lyft) and each filed a
separate action seeking civil penalties under PAGA for Lyft's alleged failure
to pay minimum wages, overtime premiums, and business expense reimbursements.
In early December 2019, Turrieta and Lyft signed an agreement settling
Turrieta's action and scheduled a settlement approval hearing for January 2,
2020. Before that hearing, Olson and Seifu filed separate motions to intervene
in Turrieta's action and submitted objections to the settlement. The trial
court denied the motions, approved the settlement, and later denied the motions
of Olson and Seifu to vacate the judgment.” 
(Id. at p.676.)  
Olson and
Seifu appealed, and the Court of Appeal affirmed in a separate published opinion
– Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 955.  The Supreme Court granted Olson’s writ of
certiorari and affirmed.  (Turrieta v.
Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664, 676.) 
The Supreme Court explained that “to intervene in the ongoing PAGA
action of another plaintiff asserting overlapping claims, to require a court to
consider objections to a proposed settlement in that overlapping action, and to
move to vacate the judgment in that action — would be inconsistent with the
scheme the Legislature enacted.”  (Id.
at pp.676-677.)  The Supreme Court
further concluded that Olson “cannot establish a cognizable interest to support
intervention under Code of Civil Procedure section 387 based on his asserted
authority, as the state's proxy or agent, to assert any state right to
intervene.”  (Id. at p.705.)  
As to
Olson’s motion to vacate, the Supreme Court found that for the same reasons it
“conclude[d] that the scope of an aggrieved employee's authority to commence
and prosecute a PAGA action on the state's behalf does not include the
authority to move to vacate the judgment obtained by another PAGA
plaintiff on the state's behalf in a separate PAGA action.”  (Id. at p.712.)  
            Here, the facts are nearly
identical to those in Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664.  On November 13, 2020, Lucio Lemus (Sr.) (“Lemus
Sr.”) filed the Lemus Action (20STCV44110) against Defendant asserting class
wage and hour claims for (1) failure to provide meal periods, (2) failure to
provide rest breaks, (3) failure to pay overtime wages, (4) failure to pay
minimum wages, (5) failure to pay all wages due at separation, (6) failure to
maintain required records, (7) failure to furnish accurate, itemized wage
statements, (8) failure to indemnify employees for necessary expenses, and (9)
unfair business practices.[1]  (RJN Exh. A [Lemus Action Complaint].)
Lemus Sr. also asserted a claim for civil penalties under PAGA in the Lemus
Action against Defendant.  (RJN Exh. A [Lemus
Action Complaint].)  In relevant
part, the claimed PAGA period in the Lemus Action began on September 9,
2019.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 5.)  On June 21, 2022, non-party Lemus Jr. – i.e.,
Lucio Lemus Jr. – was substituted as the plaintiff in the Lemus Action
due to the death of Lemus’s father, Lemus Sr.   (RJN Exh. D [Order Substituting Plaintiff in
United States District Court Central District of California Case No.
2:21-cv-00146-FLA].)
            While
the Lemus Action was pending, the instant Aguilar Action was
filed – including the Class Complaint and the PAGA Complaint – and the parties
reached a settlement.  (Stahle Decl. ¶¶ 10-14.)  No party has ever filed a notice of related
cases seeking to relate the Lemus Action with the Aguilar
Action.  On April 28, 2023, the Parties
filed a motion for preliminary approval of the Settlement Agreement.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 11-15; RJN Exh. O [Settlement
Agreement].)  On August 21, 2023, the
Court – presided by Judge Palazuelos – continued the motion for preliminary
approval of the Settlement Agreement for the Parties to submit additional
briefing.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 15; RJN Exh. Q
[Order 8/21/23].)  On November 7, 2023, the
Parties submitted the requested supplemental briefing including an Amended
Settlement Agreement.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 16;
RJN Exh. R [Supplemental Evidence in Support of Motion for Preliminary Approval
of the Settlement including an Amended Settlement Agreement].)  On December 14, 2023, the Court – presided by
Judge Palazuelos – granted the motion for preliminary approval of settlement.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 17; RJN Exh. S [Order
12/14/23].)
            The
Parties subsequently filed a motion for final approval of the settlement.  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 18.)  At some unspecified point, non-party Lemus
Jr.’s Counsel reviewed the Parties’ motion for final approval of the settlement,
and “it became clear that Plaintiffs were seeking final approval of the Amended
Settlement Agreement—even though they had already locked in through arm’s
length negotiations in April of 2023 a PAGA release period of September 11,
2020 to April 30, 2023, but instead chose, in November of 2023, to dilute their
already inked settlement by gratuitously extending the PAGA release period by
more than five months (back to April 6, 2020) without receiving any new
consideration from Defendant or being ordered to do so by the Court.”  (Stahle Decl. ¶ 19.)  Based on this presumption, Non-party Lemus
Jr. filed a motion to intervene – which the Court denied on August 20, 2024.  (RJN Exh. 5 [August 20, 2024 Order Denying
Intervention].)  On September 12, 2024, the
Court granted the Parties’ motion for final approval of the class action and
PAGA settlement and entered judgment accordingly.  (RJN Exh. BB [Final Judgment].)  Non-party Lemus Jr. then filed the instant
motion to vacate the judgment.  
            As
in Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664, the Non-party Lemus Jr.
filed a motion to intervene to stop a PAGA settlement – which was denied – and
then a motion to vacate.  The Supreme
Court’s holding in Turrieta is clear, “the scope of an aggrieved
employee's authority to commence and prosecute a PAGA action on the state's
behalf does not include the authority to move to vacate the judgment
obtained by another PAGA plaintiff on the state's behalf in a separate
PAGA action.”  (Id. at p.712
[bold added].)  Thus, even presuming that
Lemus Jr. was a proper PAGA representative, Lemus Jr. would not have authority
to vacate the judgment obtained by the Plaintiffs in the instant.  
            Despite this clear legal authority
holding that Lemus Jr. does not have any authority to vacate Plaintiff’s PAGA
settlement, Lemus Jr. contends that Turrieta
v. Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664 is
distinguishable because “Lemus Jr. is seeking to enforce his personal
interest (as his father’s successor in interest) in recovering a pro rata
share of the 25 percent of PAGA penalties that are allocated to the aggrieved
employees.”  (Motion at p.21:19-21.)  Though the Supreme Court in Turrieta v.
Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664 did not address whether a “personal
interest” in a PAGA claim this was because Olson abandoned any claim to a
“personal interest” in seeking certiorari. 
(Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 664, 684 Fn. 6 [“In his reply brief, Olson states that ‘he
does not claim a personal interest’ in
Turrieta's action or argue he has a “personal interest sufficient to justify
intervention.” …
Given Olson's statements, we express no
opinion on whether a PAGA plaintiff has a personal interest that may satisfy
the ‘interest’ requirement for intervention under section 387.”].)  
            Nor
was it necessary as the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that there is no
personal interest in a PAGA claim.  (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 547 Fn. 4 [“employees do not own a
personal claim for PAGA civil penalties”]; Amalgamated Transit Union, Local
1756, AFL-CIO v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 993, 1003 [“In bringing
such an action, the aggrieved employee acts as the proxy or agent of state
labor law enforcement agencies, representing the same legal right and interest
as those agencies, in a proceeding that is designed to protect the public, not
to benefit private parties.”].)   This is because “[a] PAGA claim is legally and
conceptually different from an employee's own suit for damages and statutory
penalties. An employee suing under PAGA ‘does so as the proxy or agent of
the state's labor law enforcement agencies.’”  (Kim v. Reins International California,
Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 81.)  Thus,
“[e]very PAGA claim is ‘a dispute between an employer and the state.’”  (Ibid.)  “Relief under PAGA is designed primarily to
benefit the general public, not the party bringing the action.”  (Ibid.)  “Consequently, [an individual’s] ability to
file PAGA claims on behalf of the state does not convert the state's interest
into their own or render them real parties in interest.”  (Turrieta v. Lyft, Inc. (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 955, 972.)
Contrary
to Lemus Jr.’s claims, the United States Supreme Court’s findings in Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639 did find that there is a
“personal interest” in PAGA claims.  In Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, the Supreme
Court held that “an arbitration agreement requiring an employee as a condition
of employment to give up the right to bring representative PAGA actions in any
forum is contrary to public policy.”  (Id.
at p. 360.)  Subsequently in Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, the United States
Supreme Court abrogated Iskanian in part.  In Viking River Cruises, Inc., the
United States Supreme Court concluded “that the [Federal Arbitration Act]
preempts the rule of Iskanian insofar as it
precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and non-individual claims through
an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Viking
River Cruises, Inc., supra, 596 U.S. at p.662 [bold and underline added].)  SCOTUS then concluded that “[The defendant
employer] [wa]s entitled to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff employee]'s
individual claim.”  (Ibid.) 
            By
Viking River Cruises, Inc.’s own terms it only applies to arbitration
agreements governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.  There is no arbitration agreement governed by
the Federal Arbitration Act at issue here. 
Thus, the findings of Viking River Cruises, Inc. have no
application to the instant action.  Moreover,
the term “individual PAGA claim” in Viking River Cruises, Inc. does not
mean a claim that a PAGA plaintiff has a personal interest in rather the United
States Supreme Court used the phrase “ ‘individual PAGA claim’ to refer to claims
based on code violations suffered by the plaintiff” in oppose to claims based
on code violations suffered by employees other than the plaintiff.  (Id. at p.649.)   In
sum, there is no personal interest in a PAGA claim and the holding in Viking
River Cruises, Inc. did not create a personal interest in PAGA claims.
            Even
presuming that Lemus Jr. has a personal interest in the PAGA claim such that he
could move to vacate the judgment; Lemus Jr. is not in a position to assert
such personal interest in the PAGA claim. 
As noted above, Lucio Lemus (Sr.) – not non-party Lucio Lemus Jr. –
filed the Lemus Action.  (RJN,
Exh. A [Lemus Action Complaint].) 
Rather, non-party Lemus Jr. was substituted into the Lemus Action
as a successor in interest after Lucio Lemus (Sr.) passed.  (RJN Exh. D [Order Substituting Plaintiff in
United States District Court Central District of California Case No.
2:21-cv-00146-FLA].)  
            “Ordinarily a right that
cannot be assigned does not survive the death of the person entitled to it.”  (In re Blair's Estate (1954) 42 Cal.2d
728, 731.)  “[U]nder [PAGA] an aggrieved
employee cannot assign a claim for statutory penalties because the employee
does not own an assignable interest.”  (Amalgamated
Transit Union, Local 1756, AFL-CIO, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p.1003.)  This is because “[a] PAGA claim is legally
and conceptually different from an employee's own suit for damages and
statutory penalties. An employee suing under PAGA ‘does so as the proxy or
agent of the state's labor law enforcement agencies.’”  (Kim, supra, 9 Cal.5th 73, 81.)  As a proxy of the state, Lemus Sr. has no
personal interest in a PAGA claim.  Thus,
there was no claim to transfer to Lemus Jr. upon his death.  Thus, “[Lucio Lemus (Sr.)]'s death
necessitated the dismissal of h[is] PAGA claim unless h[is] PAGA complaint
could be amended to substitute [Lemus Jr.] as the representative
plaintiff.”  (Hargrove v. Legacy
Healthcare, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 782, 789.)  A party can only substitute into a PAGA
action after the death of the representative plaintiff “if []he meets PAGA's
prerequisites (standing, notice, & statute of limitations) and the
amended complaint is able to relate back to the original complaint (i.e., it
rests on the same general set of facts, involves the same injury, &
involves the same cause of injury).”  (Id.
at p.791.)  
For a
claim to be passed to a successor in interest, the claim must survive the
death.  (CCP § 377.21, [“A pending action
or proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action
survives.”].)  A PAGA claim does not
survive.  (Hargrove, supra, 80
Cal.App.5th at p.789.)
            Accordingly,
Lemus Jr. does not have a cognizable interest in Lemus Sr.’s PAGA claim such
that he can move to vacate the judgment in the instant action.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Based
on the forgoing, non-party Lucio Lemus, Jr.’s motion to vacate the judgment is DENIED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to download the
instant signed order from the Court's website and to file proof of service of
the instant order on all other parties within five (5) days.
 
 
 
DATED: January 21, 2025                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


