  Case Number:  23SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Webb v. Pepperdine
University
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01693
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   12/20/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Pursuant to CCP section
2033.280(b), a party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not result in
automatic admissions. Rather, the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under §
2023.010 et seq.” (CCP, § 2033.280(b).) The court “shall” grant the motion to
deem RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (CCP, § 2033.280(c).) 
   
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Pepperdine University moves
to: a) compel Plaintiff Breanna C. Webb to produce verified, code-compliant
responses without objections to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General (Set
Two), No. 17.0; and b) deem Request for Admissions (Set One) admitted against
Plaintiff.
 
Form Interrogatories
 
On August 26, 2024, Defendant served
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General (Set Two) on Plaintiff, consisting of
a single interrogatory. (Onyemaobim Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff
sent a second email to defense counsel to say that she refused to respond to Defendant’s
Request until the Court ruled on the motion for a protective order. (Onyemaobim
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Notably, the motion for a protective order did not
reference or request any relief as to the Form Interrogatory. Plaintiff failed
to provide any response to the Form Interrogatory by September 27, 2024. (¶ 5.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the
grounds that Defendant has filed the wrong motion. Plaintiff asserts that if
the August 26, 2024, response did not qualify as a response at all, then Defendant
should have filed a motion to compel further. Indeed, there is some confusion
on the exact motions put forth by Defendant. The motion is entitled as a motion
to compel “further” but sounds as a motion to compel initial discovery
responses. The notice solely notices grounds for a motion to compel initial
responses. (CCP § 2030.290.) Defendant notes that Plaintiff
refused to respond in writing to the Interrogatory on August 26, 2024. (Onyemaobim
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. B.) Arguably, this refusal to respond is, substantially, an
objection to the form interrogatory. However, the objection is not in
substantial compliance with section 2030.210(c). Thus, the Court will not construe
the single email to counsel on August 26, 2024, as an objection to the form
interrogatory. As such, Defendant did not have to file a motion to compel
further or comply with the additional requirements of such motions. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel is
GRANTED as to FROG no. 17. Sanctions are mandatory against Plaintiff “unless [the
court] finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (CCP, § 2030.290(c).) 
 
RFAs
 
On August 26, 2024, Defendant also served
Requests for Admission (Set One) seeking an admission to a single request. Like
the prior motion, Plaintiff notified Defendant that she refused to respond to
the Request while there was the pending protective order motion. Defendant
claims to have not received any “timely responses” to the RFA, and that
Plaintiff has not served “unqualified admissions” response to the RFA. (Onyemaobim
Decl., ¶ 5.) However, the meet and confer letter attached implies that
Defendant received a response. Meet and confer emails from October 1, 2024, suggest
that there was a prior response. (Onyemaobim Decl., Ex. C.) Further, Plaintiff
provides a declaration showing that on October 2, 2024, Defendant and Plaintiff
met and conferred regarding Plaintiff’s response, and Plaintiff provided
a code-compliant and verified response to the RFA. (Webb Decl., Ex. B.) The
response appears to be a substantially code-compliant response: “DENY.” (Id.;
see CCP § 2033.220(b).) Defendant did not file this motion until November 2024,
which was after Plaintiff served a code-compliant initial response to the RFA. As
Plaintiff served a substantially code-compliant response before the hearing on
the motion (indeed, before the motion was brought), Defendant’s motion to deem
matters admitted cannot be granted. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to deem
admitted is DENIED. Sanctions are mandatory against Defendant without
exception.  
 
Sanctions

 
In light of the mixed success of Defendant’s motions,
the Court is inclined to impose cross-sanctions against both parties. Any
sanctions imposed in favor of Defendant for the motion to compel would be
offset by the mandatory sanctions imposed against Defendant for its
unsuccessful motion to deem matters admitted. Thus, the Court will decline to
impose sanctions.
 