 Case Number:  23PSCV00781    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Zanay Herrera v.  Starbucks Corporation, et al. Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES the motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff  and the corresponding request for monetary sanctions.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a premises liability action. On March 15, 2023, plaintiff Zanay  Herrera (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Starbucks Corporation,  The Vons Companies, Inc. (Vons), Albertsons Companies, Inc., Cerberus Capital Mangement  [sic] LP, La Verne Commons LLC (collectively,  Defendants) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for premises liability  and general negligence.  On November 20, 2023, Vons filed a motion to compel the deposition  of Plaintiff. On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On December 11,  2023, Vons replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to  the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or  a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,  without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear  for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any  document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice  may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and  the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (a).)  If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the  deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court  finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (g)(1).)  DISCUSSION             Vons brings this motion to compel  Plaintiff’s deposition following three failed attempts to depose Plaintiff.  Vons indicates that it has tried on many occasions to secure a mutually  agreeable date for Plaintiff’s deposition, but to no avail, so Vons went ahead  with noticing the depositions. Plaintiff objected to the first two depositions  and advised Vons that the third deposition could not go forward, but then offered  a date in late December and two dates in January as alternate dates. (Lewis  Decl., ¶¶ 5-12, Exs. A-H.) Vons contends Plaintiff’s refusal to submit to deposition  is grounds for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a deposition in this  matter. The Court disagrees.              First, although not mentioned in  Plaintiff’s opposition, the Court notes that the declaration Vons submitted in  support of this motion does not indicate the parties attempted to meet and  confer before Vons brought this motion or that it contacted Plaintiff to  inquire about a nonappearance, as is required under Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.  (b)(2).) While Vons’ declaration sets forth the parties’ actions with respect  to the attempted depositions, it says nothing about meeting and conferring with  each other regarding this motion to compel or that Vons contacted counsel for  Plaintiff regarding Plaintiff’s nonappearance.              Second, Plaintiff offered three  alternative dates for Plaintiff’s deposition, (Lewis Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. H), but  Vons completely skips over that fact, simply contending instead that Plaintiff  failed or refused to attend her deposition. It is unclear why these alternative  proposed dates were unacceptable to Vons and why Vons decided this motion to  compel was the better course of action here, especially since the hearing date  on this motion is only two days away from the December 20th date  Plaintiff offered. (Lewis Decl., Ex. H; see also Leko v. Cornerstone  Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1122-1123  [sanctions upheld against counsel for failing to comply with obligation to  informally resolve discovery issues involving depositions before bringing  motions to compel where opposing counsel advised that she and deponents would  not be available for scheduled depositions but offered to reschedule].)              Third, even assuming for the sake of  argument that the parties had properly met and conferred, Plaintiff’s actions  do not warrant an order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition. While the Court can  certainly appreciate the frustration Plaintiff’s actions caused here, those  actions do not necessarily give Vons grounds for an order compelling  Plaintiff’s attendance at a deposition. Plaintiff objected to two of the  underlying depositions, and Vons did not argue or present evidence showing that  those objections were invalid. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a)(1).)  Plaintiff did not directly object to the third deposition notice,[1] but Vons did not argue that it was an invalid objection either. Vons simply  contends that Plaintiff refuses to submit to a deposition. However, Vons admits  in its moving papers that Plaintiff offered a date in December and 2 dates in  January for her deposition before Vons filed this motion to compel. (Lewis  Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. H.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Vons’ motion to compel  the deposition of Plaintiff. The Court also DENIES Vons’ request for monetary  sanctions since Vons did not prevail on its motion to compel. However, the  Court does note that the Plaintiff does have an obligation to appear for her  deposition and to cooperate with Defendants in scheduling that deposition. The  Court expects the parties to cooperate in future scheduling whether or not  other defendants have appeared and not have to seek Court assistance on what  should be a routine matter.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff  and the corresponding request for monetary sanctions.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.    