 Case Number:  21PSCV01019    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Archtic,  LLC v. Fervino, Inc. dba Slater’s 50-50, et al. Defendant Fervino, Inc. dba Slater’s 50-50’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues  TENTATIVE  RULING             The Court  DENIES Defendant Fervino, Inc. dba Slater’s 50-50’s motion for summary  judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract case. On December 6, 2021, plaintiff  Archtic, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Fervino, Inc. dba  Slater’s 50-50 (Fervino), Raul Trevino, and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes  of action for breach of contract, open book account, account stated, reasonable  value of labor and materials furnished, violations of prompt payment statutes,  and foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. On April 26, 2023, Raul Trevino was  dismissed from this action.  On September 27, 2023, Fervino filed the instant motion for  summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. On December 4,  2023, Plaintiff opposed. On December 8, 2023, Fervino replied.  Trial  is scheduled for January 30, 2024.  LEGAL  STANDARD The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  DISCUSSION California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350,  subdivision (d)             “If summary adjudication is sought,  whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the  specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of  duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be  repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.”  (CRC Rule 3.1350(b)) [emphasis added].  Plaintiff contends that Fervino’s alternative motion for summary  adjudication is defective because it fails to state any cause of action or  other issue to be adjudicated per Rule 3.1350, subdivision (b) of the  California Rules of Court. The Court agrees. Fervino’s notice fails to state  the specific causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or  issues of duty to which the motion for summary adjudication is directed, and  Fervino’s separate statement does not repeat those items verbatim. This by  itself is a sufficient basis for denying Fervino’s alternative motion for  summary adjudication.              In addition to this procedural  deficiency, the Court finds Fervino’s motion for summary judgment and  alternative motion for summary adjudication also fail on substantive grounds.  First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of  contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's  performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's  breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  Fervino contends there is no triable issue of fact  with respect to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for breach of contract. Fervino  argues that the sole factual basis for Plaintiff’s breach of contract claims is  that Fervino failed to pay it for “general construction management services”. (Fervino’s  Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (SSUMF) 2; Compl.  ¶¶ 6-9.) Fervino further contends that in response  to Fervino’s Requests for Admissions, Plaintiff admitted that it did not  provide general construction management services in connection with the  underlying construction project. (SSUMF 10-15.) Fervino’s motion is predicated  entirely upon these discovery responses. The Court finds Fervino has not established  the absence of a triable issue of material fact.  In addition to general construction management  services, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the underlying agreement between  the parties was subsequently amended to increase the scope and price. (Compl.,  ¶ 7.) Thus, even if Plaintiff has admitted in response to Fervino’s Requests  for Admission that it did not provide general construction management services,  that still does not address the remaining scope of services allegedly agreed  upon. The Court further notes that Plaintiff’s responses to Request for  Admission Numbers 7, 8, 11, 12, and 14 indicate that Plaintiff performed  services as a Design Project Manager, which tends to show that Plaintiff was  involved with the construction project in some managerial capacity. (Milner  Decl., Ex. 2.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Fervino  has not met its burden of showing that one or more elements of the cause  of action cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the  cause of action. There are triable issues of  material facts as to the scope of the agreement and the services provided by  Plaintiff. Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment and the alternative  motion for summary adjudication as to the First Cause of Action.  Although the Court has found that Fervino failed to  comply with Rule 3.1350, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, the  Court will still address each remaining cause of action with respect to the  alternative motion for summary adjudication.              Second Cause  of Action – Open Book Account             “‘A book account is defined as ‘a detailed statement,  kept in a book, in the nature of debit and credit, arising out of contract or  some fiduciary relation.’ [Citation.] A necessary element is that the book  shall show against whom and in whose favor the charges are made. [Citation.]'”  (Biltmore Press v. Usadel (1970) 6 Cal.App.3d 896, 900,  internal citations omitted.)              Fervino’s argument here is the same as that above, namely  that Plaintiff admitted it did not provide general construction management services.  For the same reasons set forth above, this fails to establish the absence of a  triable issue of material fact.              Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion for summary  adjudication as to the Second Cause of Action.              Third Cause of  Action – Account Stated             “‘An account stated is a document—a writing—which  exhibits the state of account between parties and the balance owing one to the  other; and when assented to, either expressly or impliedly, it becomes a new  contract.’” (Biltmore Press, supra, 6 Cal.App.3d at p. 900, internal  citation omitted.)              Fervino’s argument here is the same as that above,  namely that Plaintiff admitted it did not provide general construction  management services. For the same reasons set forth above, this fails to establish  the absence of a triable issue of material fact. The Court also notes that the  Complaint does not specifically mention general construction management as part  of the claim for account stated. (See Compl., ¶¶ 14-16.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for  summary adjudication as to the Third Cause of Action.              Fourth Cause of  Action – Reasonable Value of Labor and Materials Furnished             A  claim for reasonable value of labor and materials furnished is based on  quasi-contract. (Lazzarevich v. Lazzarevich (1948) 88 Cal.App.2d 708, 721.)  “When services are rendered by one person  to another, and such services are accepted by that person, the law not only  implies a promise to pay for the services, but also implies that such promise  is to be performed at the termination of the services.” (Id.)              Fervino’s argument here is the same as that above,  namely that Plaintiff admitted it did not provide general construction  management services. For the same reasons set forth above, this fails to  establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact.              Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion for summary  adjudication as to the Fourth Cause of Action.              Fifth Cause of  Action – Violations of Prompt Payment Statutes “(a)  Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the owner and direct contractor, the  owner shall pay the direct contractor, within 30 days after notice demanding  payment pursuant to the contract is given, any progress payment due as to which  there is no good faith dispute between them. The notice given shall comply with  the requirements of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 8100) of Title 1.  (b) If there is a good faith dispute between the  owner and direct contractor as to a progress payment due, the owner may  withhold from the progress payment an amount not in excess of 150 percent of  the disputed amount.”  (Code Civ. § 8800, subds. (a),  (b).)              Fervino’s argument here is the same as that above,  namely that Plaintiff admitted it did not provide general construction  management services. For the same reasons set forth above, this fails to  establish the absence of a triable issue of material fact. The Court also notes  that the Complaint does not specifically mention general construction  management as part of this claim for prompt payments. (See Compl., ¶¶ 20-25.)              Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion for summary  adjudication as to the Fifth Cause of Action.              Sixth Cause of  Action – Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien             “A mechanic's lien is a claim against real property,  which may be filed if a claimant has provided labor or furnished materials for  the property and has not been paid.” (Brewer Corp. v. Point Ctr.  Fin., Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 831, 839.)              Fervino’s  argument here is the same as that above, namely that Plaintiff admitted it did  not provide general construction management services. For the same reasons set  forth above, this fails to establish the absence of a triable issue of material  fact.  Fervino also argues that no triable issue of fact  exists with respect to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action because Raul Trevino  was the sole owner of the subject property, and he was dismissed from the  Complaint on April 26, 2023. The Court finds this argument unavailing because Fervino  did not set this forth in its Separate Statement. “[A]ll material facts must be  set forth in the separate statement. This is the  Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication: if it is not set forth in the separate  statement, it  does not exist.” (See United Community Church v. Garcin (1991)  231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337, italics in original and superseded by statute on other  grounds; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1350, subd. (d).)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  DENIES the motion for summary adjudication as to the Sixth Cause of Action.  CONCLUSION            The Court DENIES Defendant Fervino, Inc. dba Slater’s 50-50’s  motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.