 Case Number:  23STCV18846    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KAYDEN VINOVICH, by and through his guardian ad litem, NICHOLAS VINOVICH, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  THIRTY-FIRST DISTRICT PTSA-CREATIVE KIDS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV18846  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 24, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Kayden Vinovich, by and through his guardian ad litem Nicholas Vinovich, (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants, Thirty – First District PTSA – Creative Kids (“Creative Kids”), Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) and Does 1 to 50 for injuries arising from allegations of negligent supervision. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was participating in a sponsored school activity at Chatsworth Park when Plaintiff wandered off alone outside the perimeter of the play area. Plaintiff fell and broke his arm after using the playground equipment on school property. The complaint alleges no teacher or employee supervised Plaintiff to prevent his injuries. Plaintiff sets forth two causes of action for (1) negligent supervision of students (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820) against LAUSD and Does 1 to 50, and (2) gross negligence against Creative Kids. LAUSD now demur to Plaintiff’s first cause of action against it on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against a public entity. In relation thereto, LAUSD also filed a motion to strike. Plaintiff opposes the motions, and LAUSD filed a reply.  II. DEMURRER Procedural Requirement Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP § 430.41(a).)   The Court finds the LAUSD fulfilled this requirement prior to filing its demurrer. (Cho. Decl. ¶¶ 2-6).  Legal Standard  A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer, or cross-complaint). (CCP §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].)  1st C/A – Negligent Supervision of Students The elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  Here, the complaint alleges in relevant part that Plaintiff is a student of Chatsworth Park Elementary UP/CD Magnet School (“Chatsworth Park”) within the LAUSD. LAUSD is a public school district that operated, managed, supervised and controlled Chatsworth Park. (Compl. at ¶ 2.) Creative Kids is alleged to be a social and educational program utilizing the school facilities of LAUSD, including Chatsworth Park. (Id. at ¶ 3.) LAUSD either leased or loaned Chatsworth Park to Creative Kids. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s claim for negligent supervision against LAUSD is based on Gov. Code § 815.2, Education Code §44807, and California Code of Regulations §§ 5531 and 5552 for vicarious liability. (Id. at ¶ 8, 14.) Plaintiff does not allege the relationship between Creative Kids and LAUSD. Rather, “the complaint alleges that “Plaintiff was under the care of CREATIVE KIDS for the after-school activities.” (Id. at ¶ 19.) Creative Kids is essentially alleged to be the organizer and operator of the educational program, and LAUSD’s only alleged role is to lease or loan Chatsworth Park to Creative Kids. Gov. Code § 815.2 provides that a public entity is liable for an act or omission caused by its employee. Here, there are no allegations that LAUSD had any control over Creative Kids’ employees such that LAUSD would be vicariously liable for the failure to supervise students participating in the educational program, nor are there any specific factual allegations that LAUSD’s school personnel were involved in Creative Kids’ educational program to create a duty of care; simply lending the premises to Creative Kids is insufficient. Plaintiff further bases liability on Education Code §44807 [“Every teacher in the public schools shall hold pupils to a strict account for their conduct on the way to and from school, on the playgrounds, or during recess”], and California Code of Regulations §§ 5531 [Supervision of Extracurricular Activities of Pupils] and 5552 [Playground Supervision], Plaintiff alleges LAUSD knew that the children would use playground equipment on school property. However, there are no allegations that the after-school activities arranged by Creative Kids involved use of LAUSD’s playground, such that LAUSD had a responsibility to provide certified employees to supervise direction of play. Simply alleging the possibility that the children would use the playground equipment is not enough. There are currently not enough facts to create a nexus between LAUSD and Creative Kids, when it is alleged that Plaintiff was specifically under the care of Creative Kids for after-school activities.  Therefore, LAUSD’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. However, because there is a reasonable possibility of cure, the demurrer is sustained with thirty (30) days leave to amend.   III. MOTION TO STRIKE Procedural Standard Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) The Court finds the LAUSD fulfilled this requirement prior to filing its demurrer. (Cho. Decl. ¶¶ 2-6).  Legal Standard The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  Discussion LAUSD seeks to strike from the complaint all references to Education Code §44807, California Government Code §815.6 and California Code of Regulations, §5552 and §5531 on the grounds that these statutes do not impose a mandatory duty to provide a sufficient statutory basis under Gov. Code § 815.6. Gov. Code § 815.6 provides, “Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” Education Code §44807 states in pertinent part that “[e]very teacher in the public schools shall hold pupils to a strict account for their conduct on the way to and from school, on the playgrounds, or during recess.” Further, California Code of Regulations, §5552 states, “Where playground supervision is not otherwise provided, the principal of each school shall provide for the supervision by certificated employees of the conduct and safety, and for the direction of the play, of the pupils of the school who are on the school grounds during recess and other intermissions and before and after school.” Lastly, §5531 provides that, “All social activities of pupils, wherever held, if conducted under the name or auspices of a public school or of any class or organization thereof, shall be under the direct supervision of certificated employees of a district or an office of a county superintendent of schools.” Furthermore, school districts and their employees have a general duty to supervise school children while they are on school grounds and engaged in school activities. (See Dailey v Los Angeles Unified School District (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741; see also Educ. Code section 44807.)  “'It is the duty of the school authorities to supervise at all times the conduct of the children on the school grounds and to enforce those rules and regulations necessary to their protection. [Citations.] The school district is liable for injuries which result from a failure of its officers and employees to use ordinary care in this respect.”'  (M. W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110 Cal. App. 4th 508, 517.)   As previously provided, Plaintiff has not alleged enough factual allegations giving rise to a duty by LAUSD’s employees while Plaintiff was under the care of Creative Kids for an after-school educational program. Plaintiff has been given leave to amend the complaint, which may potentially alter the outcome of this matter. Thus, in the meantime, LAUSD’s motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend for Plaintiff to allege sufficient facts in support of the cited authority.  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, LAUSD’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. LAUSD’s motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   