 Case Number:  22STCV15044    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARTHA MALDONADO LUNA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BARAAT MOLLER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV15044  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 24, 2024  I.  Background Plaintiff, Martha Maldonado Luna (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants, Baraat Moller and Curtis Dailey (“Defendants”) for damages arising from an automobile accident.   Defendants now move to compel non-party SoCal Imaging to produce its custodian of records for deposition, and to produce documents pursuant to a deposition subpoena served. Defendants further request monetary sanctions against SoCal Imaging. Any opposition was due on or before April 11, 2024; the motion is unopposed.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION (NON-PARTY) Procedural Per CRC 3.1346, when moving to compel a non-party to comply with a deposition subpoena, all moving papers must be served on the non-party by personal service. Defendants’ proof of service demonstrates SoCal Imaging was personally served with the motion. Therefore, the Court will consider the motion on the merits.  Legal Standard  The service of a deposition notice, pursuant to CCP § 2025.240, is effective to require any party deponent to attend, testify, and produce materials for inspection at a deposition. (CCP § 2025.280(a).)  To require the attendance and testimony of a non-party deponent, as well as his or her production of any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying, the party seeking discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena, pursuant CCP § 2020.010, et seq. (CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); See also Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by CCP §§ 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way of subpoena].) A litigant may take the deposition of the custodian of records in order to ascertain the nature of documents and to identify persons who might be witnesses at trial;¿however, such right is subject to any proper objections. (Grosslight v. Superior Ct. (1977) 72 Cal. App. 3d 502, 505.) Defendants assert Plaintiff alleged injuries to her neck, shoulders, arms, lower back, legs, and jaw from the subject accident, and that she produced medical records evincing imaging for her cervical spine at SoCal Imaging. On December 28, 2023, Defendants served a deposition notice for SoCal Imaging’s custodian of records setting the deposition for February 8, 2024, and personally served the deposition subpoena. SoCal Imaging did not respond to defense counsel’s letter requesting confirmation of the deposition, and has to date not produced responsive documents or imaging. Defendants aver the motion is timely, because it was filed within 60 days after Defendants took the certificate of non-appearance on February 8, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) Defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter regarding the deposition, but SoCal Imaging did not respond.  In this case, Defendants have sufficiently provided that the testimony and records are directly relevant to this action because Plaintiff received treatment SoCal Imaging arising from the incident. There is no evidence of any objection filed to the deposition subpoena, nor has a motion to quash or opposition to this motion been filed. Therefore, the unopposed motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena is GRANTED.   Conclusion & Order The custodian of records for SoCal Imaging is ordered to appear for deposition at a date and time to be noticed by Defendants. Defendants must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).  III. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory. (CCP § 2025.480(j).) Defendants request sanctions in the amount of $780 against SoCal Imaging. Defendants are awarded two hours for preparing the motion and one hour for appearing at the hearing all at the reasonable rate of $180 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $540. Further, Defendants are awarded one motion filing fee of $60 as costs. Sanctions are sought and imposed against SoCal Imaging. SoCal Imaging is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $600, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    