 Case Number:  23STCV02895    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ROSA VARGAS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LEBLEUCHATEAU, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV02895  [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 24, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Rosa Vargas and Enrique Vargas Ortiz (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Lebleuchateau dba Burbank Senior Villa West (“LBC”), Burbank Senior Villa West, Trion Solutions Inc. (“Trion”), Kornland Building, and Paul Lawrence Dunbar Haney IV (“Haney”) for wrongful death (Labor Code §3601) and premises liability.  Plaintiffs, the parents of decedent Moncerrat Vargas (“Decedent”), allege Decedent was an employee of LBC/Trion/ Burbank Senior Villa West. After Haney was terminated from his employment with defendants, Haney stabbed Decedent when Decedent arrived for her work shift on July 30, 2021. Plaintiffs allege Decedent’s employers were aware of Haney’s threat of violence against Decedent and failed to protect Decedent from Haney.  On January 22, 2024, the Court granted the motion for judgment on the pleadings brought by LBC dba as Burbank Senior Villa West, erroneously sued as a separately named defendant, on the grounds that Plaintiffs’ claims against Decedent’s employers are barred by the workers’ compensation exclusive remedy rule. (Min. Order, Jan. 22, 2024.) Trion had joined LBC’s motion. (Ibid.) However, Plaintiffs were granted 20 days leave to amend. (Ibid.) On February 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Trion now demurs to the FAC. Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Trion filed a reply.  II. DEMURRER Procedural Requirement Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP § 430.41(a).)   The Court finds Trion fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the demurrer. (Freeman Decl. ¶ 3.)  Legal Standard A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (CCP §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-72.) The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action.  (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]). A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  Discussion  Subject to exceptions, workers’ compensation is the¿only¿remedy¿available to injured employees¿and their dependents¿against the employer or against any fellow employee responsible for injuries “arising out of and in the course of employment.” (Lab. Code §§ 3600-3602, 5300; see¿Shoemaker v. Myers¿(1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 18.) There are some situations in which the injured employee may maintain a civil action against his or her employer. These include statutory exceptions such as: 1) physical assault by the employer; 2) aggravation of injury by the employer’s fraudulent concealment; 3) products liability cases, 4) power press guards; and 5) the employer is uninsured.  (See Lab. Code §§ 3602, 3706, 4553.)   Previously, Trion joined LBC’s motion for judgment on the pleading, which the Court had granted on the grounds that, under the alleged factual circumstances, Plaintiffs’ claims against Decedent’s employers fall within the workers compensation scheme. The Court reviewed the FAC and the initial complaint. No new or substantially different allegations were added to the FAC by comparison. The salient factual allegations remain the same, and Plaintiff’s opposition is substantially similar to Plaintiff’s previous opposition to LBC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings by citing to the same cases in support. The Court will therefore utilize its analysis previously provided.  Trion argues Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the exclusive remedy rule under Labor Code section 3600, et seq. Under Labor Code section 3602, “[w]here the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to recover compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the employer.” (Labor Code, § 3602, subd. (a).) Section 3602, subdivisions (b) and (c) set forth the exceptions to the exclusive remedy provision of subdivision (a) as follows:  (b) An employee, or his or her dependents in the event of his or her death, may bring an action at law for damages against the employer, as if this division did not apply, in the following instances:  (1) Where the employee's injury or death is proximately caused by a willful physical assault by the employer.  (2) Where the employee's injury is aggravated by the employer's fraudulent concealment of the existence of the injury and its connection with the employment, in which case the employer's liability shall be limited to those damages proximately caused by the aggravation. The burden of proof respecting apportionment of damages between the injury and any subsequent aggravation thereof is upon the employer.  (3) Where the employee's injury or death is proximately caused by a defective product manufactured by the employer and sold, leased, or otherwise transferred for valuable consideration to an independent third person, and that product is thereafter provided for the employee's use by a third person.  (c) In all cases where the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 do not concur, the liability of the employer shall be the same as if this division had not been enacted. (Labor Code § 3602, subd. (b) and (c).)  Here, the FAC alleges in pertinent part the following:  “26. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that Defendant HANEY was employed by Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, from approximately March 2021 up until approximately June 29, 2021, where he worked as a dishwasher at the SUBJECT PREMISES.  27. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that at all times relevant herein, Decedent was an employee of Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, where she worked as an Office Manager at the SUBJECT PREMISES. Her job duties included scheduling, payroll, collecting rent from residents, and administrative duties.  …  29. This is a wrongful death action arising from an incident that occurred on July 30, 2021 at approximately 8:00 a.m. at the SUBJECT PREMISES.  …  35. On or around June 25, 2021, Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, instructed Decedent to provide Defendant HANEY with a Disciplinary Warning Notice and placed Defendant HANEY on a three-day suspension for misconduct related to a violent outburst and for being uncooperative. While speaking with Defendant HANEY, Decedent was accompanied by the Maintenance Director for Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, in case Defendant HANEY became aggressive. Defendant HANEY yelled at the Maintenance Director during this conversation.  36. On or around June 28, 2021, Defendant HANEY returned from suspension and was terminated from employment. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, instructed Decedent and FRANKLIN to conduct the termination, and both were present. During the termination and exit interview, Defendant HANEY was angry and swore multiple times, and stated, “you guys will see. It’s not right you’re doing this.”  …  38. On or around July 2, 2021, Defendant HANEY sent a text message to FRANKLIN stating, among other things, that “[Decedent] is lucky I didn’t stab her”. FRANKLIN notified other persons working for Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, about this text message. […]  39. At all times relevant herein, it was the policy of Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, to call the police if a threat of violence is made by one employee against another.  …  41. Upon information and belief, and thereon alleged, Defendant HANEY, as a former employee of Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, would have received training on this policy and known of its existence.  …  47. Upon information and belief, and thereon alleged, Defendant HANEY was never contacted by police regarding the threatening text message or exit interview prior to the subject incident. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive’s contravention of their policy to call the police would have, therefore, been obvious and encouraging to Defendant HANEY who, upon information and belief and thereon alleged, would have known about the policy to call the police.  48. Upon information and belief, and thereon alleged, Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, made the decision that any business practice to ensure the safety of Decedent against these serious threats of violence by Defendant HANEY need not occur, such as but not limited to:  a. hiring any security to patrol the SUBJECT PREMISES; b. providing any extra support to Decedent to ensure she did not enter or exit the SUBJECT PREMISES alone; c. providing Decedent with any other work accommodations such as telling Decedent to work from home; d. alerting any authorities about the serious threats of violence and to prevent Defendant HANEY from being around the area of the SUBJECT PREMISES.”  (FAC. at ¶¶ 26, 27, 29, 38, 39, 47, and 48.) The FAC further alleges that on or around July 28 or 29 of 2021, Haney hid in some bushes at Earthwalk Park. (Id. at ¶ 49.) On July 30, 2021, Haney returned to Earthwalk Park at around 7:50 a.m. and waited for Decedent to arrive for her shift. (Id. at ¶ 50.) Decedent arrived at the premises and walked towards the patio area through the gate closest to the building when Haney hopped the fence, and stabbed Decedent multiple times. (Id. at ¶¶ 51-55). Decedent passed from the severity of her injuries. (Id. at ¶ 56.) Plaintiffs allege that under California Labor Code section 3601(a), employers can be held liable as joint participants if there is evidence of ratification of the conduct of the aggressor employee, and that Trion/LBC/Burbank ratified Haney’s conduct by engaging in the following affirmative acts:  “a. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive knew that Defendant HANEY wanted to stab Decedent over three (3) weeks before the incident ultimately occurred;  b. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive knew that Defendant HANEY had made a threat during his exit interview, stating, “you guys are going to find out.”  c. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, had a policy to call the police whenever a threat of violence was made by one employee against another;  d. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, had trained Defendant HANEY on this policy as a former employee.  e. Defendants CHATEAU, BURBANK, TRION, and/or DOES 11 through 50, inclusive, met with their in-house counsel and, despite two clear and credible threats, affirmatively chose to act in clear contravention to this policy;  f. Defendant HANEY would have been aware of this rejection of corporate policy and encouraged by the lack of police communication.” (Id. at ¶ 69) Generally, injuries arising from ordinary employer conduct, even that which intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly harms an employee, is still subject to the exclusive remedies provided by the workers' compensation system. (Arendell v. Auto Parts Club, Inc. (1994) 29 Cal. App. 4th 1261.) In Arendell, the store employees filed a tort action against Auto Parts Club, asserting causes of action for negligence, premise liability, and “serious and willful misconduct and reckless disregard” for failing to provide adequate premises security, resulting in their being bound, gagged, threatened, and robbed. However, the store employees did not allege intentional conduct on part of store, which might have brought store beyond boundaries of workers' compensation bargain. The Arendell Court reiterated the applicable law set forth in Fermino v. Fedco, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, wherein the Supreme Court described a tripartite system classifying injuries arising in the course of employment:   “First, there are injuries caused by employer negligence or without employer fault that are compensated at the normal rate under the workers' compensation system.” (citations.) These injuries are subject to workers' compensation exclusivity.   “Second, there are injuries caused by ordinary employer conduct that intentionally, knowingly or recklessly harms an employee, for which the employee may be entitled to extra compensation under [Labor Code] section 4553.” (Ibid.) These also are subject to workers' compensation exclusivity, but the employee is entitled to a 50 percent increase in compensation if the injury results from the employer's “serious and willful misconduct.” (Lab.Code, § 4553.)   “Third, there are certain types of intentional employer conduct which bring the employer beyond the boundaries of the compensation bargain, for which a civil action may be brought.” (citations, emphasis added in original.) Intentional conduct is beyond the compensation bargain if it could not be considered a normal risk of employment or is contrary to fundamental public policy. (citations.) (Arendell, supra, 29 Cal. App. at 1264.) When the alleged intentional misconduct does not go beyond failure to assure a safe working environment, workers' compensation is the exclusive remedy for injuries suffered by an employee; only intentional employer misconduct is exempt from the exclusivity provisions. Thus, in order to bring a separate tort action, it must be alleged and proved that the employer acted deliberately with the specific intent to injure the employee. (Arendell, supra, 29 Cal. App. 4th at 1265; see also Roberts v. Pup 'N' Taco Driveup (1984) 160 Cal. App. 3d 278.)  Plaintiffs cite Hart v. Nat'l Mortg. & Land Co. (1987) 189 Cal. App. 3d 1420, arguing that the employer can be said to have ratified the tortfeasor employee’s tortious conduct and became a joint participant in it because the plaintiff allegedly reported the act to a supervisor. However, the facts of Hart are not applicable to the present case. In Hart, the Court held that the plaintiff may state a cause of action by alleging the employer was aware of the employee’s act of jumping, grabbing, and pinching the plaintiff, and the act of the employer of doing nothing to discipline the employee for those acts may fall under the doctrine for ratification for the exclusivity doctrine to not apply. Here, the FAC alleges Haney was reported by employees of Defendants to have been observed throwing objects around the kitchen, throwing a chair across the room, and singing and screaming loudly with no music playing. (FAC. at ¶ 33.) Haney was then provided a disciplinary warning notice, placed on a three-day suspension for misconduct and being uncooperative, and ultimately terminated from his employment. (Id. at ¶¶ 35-36.) Haney did not comment that “[Decedent] is lucky I didn’t stab her” until after days after his employment had been terminated. Plaintiffs argue that LBC and Trion “allowed and even encouraged Defendant HANEY to act on his violent threats” by concealing a threat to Decedent’s life. (Opp. p. 7, lines 1-2.) However, there are no allegations of any encouragement by LBC or Trion to ratify Haney’s conduct either during his employment or after his termination, nor any concealment of the text message threat when the FAC alleges that “BERCOVICH told ROMERO and Decedent they could try calling the police if they wanted.” (Id. at ¶ 45.) The FAC essentially alleges Trion/LBC failed to provide adequate premises security and failed to report the text message threat to the police, in direct contravention to their own policies and procedures. However, unlike the facts presented in Hart, there are no allegations of any conduct directed towards Decedent while Haney was still employed with Trion/LBC. Further, the FAC alleges Haney was disciplined for his general conduct of erratic behavior, and there are no allegations that would constitute ratification of Haney’s threatening message and subsequent murder of Decedent conducted after Haney’s termination with Trion.   Plaintiffs do not allege any intentional conduct by Trion with the specific intent to injure Decedent. An intentional tort is one in which the actor “desires to cause consequences of his act” or “believes that the consequences are substantially certain to result from it.” (Rest.2d Torts, § 8A.) The FAC alleges negligence, and at most recklessness, for failure to protect Decedent from the tortious acts of a former employee, but do not allege a desire by Trion to cause injurious consequences to Decedent. In line with the rationale set forth in Arendell, “An employer's failure to take adequate security measures despite a known risk of harm may be reprehensible, justifying a 50 percent penalty under the workers' compensation law for serious and willful misconduct (Labor Code § 4553), but it invokes no fundamental public policy that we can discern.” (Id. at 1266.) Subdivision (c) of § 3601 insulates the employer from common law vicarious liability to an employee for the acts of another employee. (Iverson v. Atlas Pac. Eng'g (1983) 143 Cal. App. 3d 219, 227.) The rationale is reiterated in Fretland v. Cnty. of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal. App. 4th 1478, in which the plaintiff’s claims against his employer arising from assault and battery by another employee was barred by the exclusive remedy provisions of the workers’ compensation law. The Fretland court rejected plaintiff’s argument that the assault by a co-employee was imputed to the employer pursuant to the doctrine of respondeat superior, holding that the doctrine of respondeat superior cannot be used to extend section 3602, subdivision (b)(1) exception to exclusivity to an employer. (Id. at 1486.) The court reasoned that “liability under section 3602, subdivision (b)(1), must be based on positive misconduct by the employer and not on a theory of vicarious liability such as that which forms the basis of the doctrine of respondeat superior.” (Id. 1487.)  Plaintiff alleges no positive misconduct by Trion, as the employer of Decedent, to be exempt from the exclusivity rule. Pleading that the failure to call the police regarding Haney’s threats was an “affirmative decision” does not change the analysis. "Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as if originally authorized by him." (Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal. 3d 67, 73.) Ultimately, Trion’s knowledge of Haney’s text message threat of violence against Decedent, and the alleged failure to provide workplace safety resulting therefrom, still falls within the statutory scheme contemplated by the Workers Compensation Act. (Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Prot. Dist. (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 148, 159 [“Since awareness of the danger by the employer is not a basis for liability for damages, it follows that reckless disregard of the probability of injury should not warrant exemption from the exclusive remedy provisions of the Labor Code.”].) Iverson v. Atlas Pac. Eng'g (1983) 143 Cal. App. 3d 219 made clear that the ratification by the employer must be a positive act on the part of the employer. (Id. at 228.) Under this theory, the employer is directly liable to the employee “for its own acts” of ratification. (Id. [characterizing the ratifying employer as a “joint participant”.) The inaction of Trion to report is not the same as the “ratification” of an ongoing unsafe workplace condition by an employer to provide direct employer liability for the tort committed.  Furthermore, the policy governing the workers compensation exclusivity rule provides that, “Where a reasonable doubt exists as to whether an act of an employee is contemplated by the employment, or as to whether an injury occurred in the course of the employment, section 3202 requires courts to resolve the doubt against the right of the employee to sue for civil damages and in favor of the applicability of the Compensation Act.” (Eckis v. Sea World Corp. (1976) 64 Cal. App. 3d 1, 7.) Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ claims against Decedent’s employers are barred by workers’ compensation exclusive remedy rule.   IV. CONCLUSION The burden is on Plaintiffs to show in what manner they can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.) Plaintiffs were previously given leave to amend, and filed substantively the same factual allegations. Plaintiffs provide no additional facts that would alter the outcome of the above analysis.  Based on the foregoing, Trion’s demurrer to the FAC is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs’ sole remedy here is with the Compensation Act. (Eckis, supra, 64 Cal. App. 3d at 7.)  Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court     