  Case Number:  19STCV19138    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 10/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV19138 VANOOHI
DAVOODIAN vs DOLLAR KING, INC.
Moving Party: Defendant Dollar King
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:     MOTION
FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT JUDGMENT
IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
Section 473,
subdivision (b) states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect....
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
               Section
473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from
a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or
his or her attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand,
upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating a default which will result in the entry of a
default judgment, a default judgment, or an entered dismissal.”  (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603,
615–616.)     
To gain the statutory
benefits, a party or legal representative must seek such relief “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 (Rappleyea).
Discussion
On January 11, 2024,
Plaintiff obtained a default judgment against Defendant Dollar Kings, Inc.
Defendant now seeks relief from the default judgment under the mandatory relief
pursuant to CCP 473(b).
The statutory
requirements for relief have been satisfied. First, the default judgment was
entered on January 11, 2024, and this motion was filed on July 2, 2024, which
is within the six-month statutory deadline. Second, the motion addresses a
dismissal, which falls under the scope of the mandatory relief provision.
Third, Defendant’s counsel submitted a declaration stating that the default
occurred due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Fourth, while the
parties were in communication before the default judgment, a family death
caused Defendant’s counsel to take time off, and he failed to instruct office
staff to properly calendar Defendant’s response. As a result, no responsive
pleading was filed, leading to the entry of default judgment. The Court finds
that the default judgment was entered a result of counsel’s neglect. Fifth,
Defendant has attached a copy of the proposed answer to the motion.
Since all statutory
requirements have been met and no opposition was filed, Defendant’s motion for
relief is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 