 Case Number:  21STCV26067    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO PRECLUDE EXPERT TESTIMONY AT TRIAL
Hearing Date: 10/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV26067 BRITHNEY GONZALEZ vs BRENDA
JIMENEZ et al.
Moving Party: Defendant BRENDA JIMENEZ
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO PRECLUDE EXPERT TESTIMONY
AT TRIAL ARE GRANTED.
 
Background
On June 18, 2024,
Plaintiff designated Dr. Alen Nourian and Andrew Morris as retained experts,
and Dr. Andrew Choi as one of several non-retained experts. Defendant noticed
the depositions of these three experts, but none of them appeared for their
depositions or produced their expert files. Expert discovery is now closed, and
Defendant moves the Court to exclude all three experts from testifying at
trial.
Facts
Dr. Nourian and Dr.
Morris
·       
On June 18, 2024, Defendant noticed the
depositions of Plaintiff’s retained experts, Dr. Alen Nourian and Dr. Andrew
Morris, both scheduled for July 15, 2024. 
·       
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff served an
untimely objection to the depositions, stating that 'Plaintiff’s counsel is
unavailable on July 15, 2024.'
·       
On August 7, 2024, Defendant re-noticed
the depositions of Dr. Nourian and Dr. Morris to take place on August 26, 2024.
·       
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff again
served objections, citing counsel’s unavailability. On the same day, Defense
counsel advised Plaintiff’s counsel that the depositions would remain on
calendar unless alternate dates were provided. 
·       
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
responded, stating that they would be available only after Defense counsel
worked out a deposition date directly with Plaintiff’s experts.
·       
On August 23, 2024, Defense counsel’s
paralegal, Julie Probst, spoke with Dr. Alen Nourian, who stated that he was
unaware of the scheduled deposition for August 26th, as Plaintiff’s counsel had
not contacted him. Dr. Nourian also confirmed that his expert file had not been
requested for production.
·       
On the same day, Julie Probst also
contacted Dr. Andrew Morris’s office, and that office also confirmed that Dr.
Morris was unaware of the August 26th deposition, as Plaintiff’s counsel had
not communicated with him. Dr. Morris’s office further advised that they had
not received a signed retainer agreement or the full required retainer fee. Dr.
Morris confirmed that his expert file had not been requested for production.
·       
Defense counsel’s office informed the
experts and Plaintiff’s counsel that the depositions would proceed as
scheduled, as no alternative dates were provided, and it is not defense
counsel’s responsibility to arrange and schedule Plaintiff’s experts’ depositions
beyond providing notice.
·       
On August 26, 2024, neither Plaintiff’s
counsel, Dr. Nourian, nor Dr. Morris appeared for the scheduled expert
depositions, and Certificates of Non-Appearance were taken.
Dr. Andrew Choi
·       
On July 8, 2024, Defendant served a
notice of deposition for Plaintiff’s non retained expert, Dr. Andrew Choi,
scheduled for July 23, 2024.
·       
The deposition was then continued to
August 26, 2024.
·       
On August 26, 2024, Dr. Choi’s office
informed Defendant that he was unavailable on that date and offered an
alternative date of September 12, 2024, which was accepted, and the deposition
was rescheduled accordingly.
·       
Despite repeated requests for copies of
Dr. Choi’s CV, fee schedule, and expert file, he failed and refused to produce
the requested documents. 
·       
Dr. Choi did not comply with Defendant’s
document request or appear for his deposition, and a Certificate of
Non-Appearance was taken on September 12, 2024.
The current trial date
is November 18, 2024. The trial was continued from October 9, 2024, to November
18, 2024, but the minute order continuing the trial did not specify that expert
discovery or other case-related deadlines would follow the new trial date. As a
result, expert discovery is now closed.
Legal Standard
Under California Code
of Civil Procedure § 2034.300(d), the trial court shall exclude from evidence
the expert opinion of any witness if a party has unreasonably failed to make
that expert available for deposition, provided the moving party made a complete
and timely expert witness exchange. Furthermore, the court has inherent
authority to exclude evidence when a party has acted unfairly. This means that
even if the mandatory provision under CCP § 2034.300(d) does not strictly apply
due to the defendant’s incomplete or late disclosure, the court still has
discretion to exclude expert testimony at trial. (Cottini v. Enloe Medical
Center (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 401, 428.)
Discussion
Here, Defendant’s
counsel has demonstrated that all parties, including Defendant, complied with
the statutory requirements for timely expert designations under CCP 2034.260.
(Declaration of Dwayne S. Beck ¶3.) Second, the Court finds that Plaintiff
unreasonably failed to make her experts available; specifically, both Dr.
Morris and Dr. Nourian confirmed that they had not been contacted by
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the deposition dates, nor were they asked to
provide their expert files. In the case of Dr. Morris, it was revealed that a
retainer agreement was not even signed, and his office had not received the
full required retainer fee.  And, most
significantly, the experts failed to appear on their noticed deposition date.
Plaintiff’s
non-retained expert, Dr. Andrew Choi, also failed to comply with the deposition
process. Despite confirming his availability for the September 12, 2024
deposition date, Dr. Choi did not appear. Furthermore, despite repeated
requests, Dr. Choi failed and refused to provide expert documents such as his
CV, fee schedule, and expert file.
Time for expert
discovery is limited. When expert depositions are continued, as they were in
this case, and the experts still fail to appear or provide necessary documents,
the opportunity to conduct meaningful discovery is lost. The depositions of Dr.
Morris, Dr. Nourian, and Dr. Choi were scheduled and continued multiple times,
yet none of the experts appeared for their depositions, and expert files were
not produced. 
Plaintiff opposes
Defendant’s motion, arguing that the exclusion of expert testimony is overly
harsh, that the testimony is critical to the case, and that any prejudice
suffered by Defendant can be mitigated. However, exclusion is mandatory under
CCP § 2034.300(d), and the Court finds that Plaintiff acted unreasonably and
that Defendant made a timely expert disclosure under CCP § 2034.260. Expert
discovery is not meant to be a cat and mouse game, but that is exactly what
Plaintiff engaged in.  Simply, a party is
to make its experts available for deposition. 
Plaintiff did not do so. The consequence for that is clearly set forth
in the Code of Civil Procedure.
Therefore, the motion
is granted. Dr. Morris and Dr. Nourian will be excluded from testifying at
trial, and Dr. Choi, Plaintiff’s non-retained expert, is excluded from
providing expert testimony at trial, though he can testify as a percipient
witness.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 