 Case Number:  23STCV16161    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
4, 2023                              TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Linda Mansolillo v. GRAIL, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV16161
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Illumina, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Linda
Mansolillo
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is an employment discrimination and retaliation action.
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff, Linda Mansolillo, filed a Complaint against
Defendants, GRAIL, Inc. (“GRAIL”) and Illumina, Inc. (“Illumina”), for (1)
Harassment in Violation of FEHA, (2) Discrimination in Violation of FEHA, (3)
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Harassment in Violation of the Fair Employment & Housing Act, (5) Violation
of California Equal Pay Act, (6) Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of
California Equal Pay Act, (7) Whistleblower Retaliation, and (8) Labor Code
Retaliation.  
 
            The
Complaint alleges as follows: Plaintiff was employed by Illumina and GRAIL. Illumina
develops gene sequencing technology. GRAIL was formed in 2015 as a subsidiary of
Illumina to develop cancer screening from blood tests. In 2016, GRAIL spun off
as a separate company to facilitate fundraising from outside investors. In September
2020, Illumina decided to reacquire GRAIL. The acquisition was completed in
August 2021. When first proposed, the acquisition spurred on intense scrutiny
by the European Union and United States Government. The European Union opened
an investigation into the proposed merger. Illumina and GRAIL completed the
merger before the investigation was completed. In response, the European Union adopted
measures requiring the companies to maintain separate management. Meanwhile, in
the United States, the Federal Trade Commission ordered Illumina to divest its
acquisition of GRAIL. 
 
            From 2016
to 2020, Plaintiff was employed by Illumina. In February 2020, Plaintiff was
hired by GRAIL as Director of National Accounts.  Plaintiff’s first year of employment with GRAIL
was a success.  Plaintiff received positive
performance reviews and was promoted. However, after the May 2021 hiring of a
woman named Stephanie Gutendorf as the Senior Vice President of Partnerships, the
workplace environment deteriorated.  
 
            Ms.
Gutendorf hired her former colleague and good friend, Joe McKenna, as Vice
President of Commercial Partnerships. To Plaintiff’s dismay, Plaintiff was
never given the opportunity to apply to that position despite being more than qualified.
Plaintiff voiced her concerns. Shortly after, in an apparent attempt to deflect
Plaintiff’s concerns, Ms. Gutendorf told Plaintiff about a new position and
indicated Plaintiff was the best person for it.  Plaintiff eventually assumed the new position
with a clear path to promotion to a Vice President level position.  
 
             During Ms. Gutendorf’s tenure at GRAIL, Ms. Gutendorf
directly contributed to a sexually charged, hostile work environment.  For instance, Ms. Gutendorf attended a work
meeting in inappropriate attire and openly discussed her personal sex life and
other unprofessional conduct.  Plaintiff reported
Ms. Gutendorf’s behavior to human resources.  GRAIL opened an investigation and, shortly
afterwards, Ms. Gutendorf left the company under undisclosed terms.  
            
            After Ms.
Gutendorf’s departure from GRAIL, Plaintiff was required to report to Mr. McKenna.
 Mr. McKenna suspected that the
investigation of Ms. Gutendorf was initiated based on Plaintiff’s report.  In retaliation, Mr. McKenna, along with Chief
Financial Officer Aaron Friedan, placed Plaintiff in a new position.  The new position was effectively a demotion since
Plaintiff no longer had a clear path to a Vice President level position and
required Plaintiff to co-lead with a male colleague with considerably less
experience. Plaintiff’s suspicion of retaliation was confirmed when she learned
that GRAIL was publicly advertising a position for a Vice President of Customer
Success position.  Plaintiff was
qualified for the position but was never notified of its availability.  Mr. McKenna was eventually hired for the
position.  Further, Mr. McKenna prepared Plaintiff’s
year end performance review for 2021 and gave her low ratings without providing
any metrics, examples, or specific feedback supporting the rating.  Plaintiff’s performance review sharply
contrasted with year-end reviews that Mr. McKenna prepared for male employees.
 
            In addition
to retaliation, the hostile work environment under Ms. Gutendorf’s tenure
persisted with Mr. McKenna. Plaintiff complained of the retaliatory conduct and
discrimination she was experiencing, along with myriad other issues, but her
concerns were not met with serious consideration nor were any investigations
undertaken. Plaintiff eventually left GRAIL to pursue other opportunities. Prior
to filing her Complaint, Plaintiff wrote a letter to Illumina’s interim CEO and
board of directors which detailed her experiences while employed at GRAIL.  Plaintiff asked that Illumina take action to
end the hostile work environment at its wholly owned subsidiary. Plaintiff also
provided a draft copy of this Complaint. In response, Illumina’s outside
counsel indicated no action would be taken because of the hold-separate
requirement imposed by US antitrust and European competition regulators. 
 
            On August 17,
2023, Illumina filed this Demurrer to the entire Complaint, arguing that each
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
as to Illumina.  In the alternative,
Illumina requests a stay of the action as to Illumina pursuant to the primary
jurisdiction doctrine and equitable abstention doctrine during the pendency of
European Commission proceedings and Federal Trade Commission proceedings. 
 
            Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  Illumina replied.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.  Meet and Confer

 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Declaration of Christina Snider, ¶¶ 5, 6.)
 
B.  Judicial Notice
 
Illumina requests judicial notice of thirteen documents.  Plaintiff opposes generally, but not
specifically as to each request.  No
matter, as the Court does not rely upon the requested documents in reaching its
ruling.  As such, the requests for
judicial notice are DENIED as not relevant.  
 
C.  Analysis
 
Illumina does not challenge whether the elements of each
cause of action are sufficiently pleaded. 
Rather, the main issue to be decided is whether the Complaint
sufficiently alleges Illumina’s liability under a joint employment theory or
single enterprise theory.  For the
reasons stated herein, the Court finds the Complaint is deficient.
 
            1. Joint
Employment Theory
 
“California law specifies the elements necessary
to define an employer. “To employ” has “three alternative definitions.” (Martinez
v. Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th 35, 64, 109 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 231 P.3d 259.) “It
means: (a) to exercise control over the wages, hours or working conditions, or
(b) to suffer or permit to work, or (c) to engage, thereby creating
a common law employment relationship.” (Ibid.)” (Castaneda v. Ensign
Grp., Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1019.)  
 
An entity that controls the business enterprise
may be an employer even if it did not “directly hire, fire or supervise” the employees.
(Guerrero v. Superior Court, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 950,
153 Cal.Rptr.3d 315.) Multiple entities may be employers where they “control
different aspects of the employment relationship.” (Martinez v. Combs, supra,
49 Cal.4th at p. 76, 109 Cal.Rptr.3d 514, 231 P.3d 259.)” (Id.)
 
Courts consider the ‘totality of the
circumstances’ to determine the existence of an employer/employee relationship.
 “Factors to be taken into account in
assessing the relationship of the parties include payment of salary or other
employment benefits and Social Security taxes, the ownership of the equipment
necessary to performance of the job, the location where the work is performed,
the obligation of the defendant to train the employee, the authority of the
defendant to hire, transfer, promote, discipline or discharge the employee, the
authority to establish work schedules and assignments, the defendant's
discretion to determine the amount of compensation earned by the employee, the
skill required of the work performed and the extent to which it is done under
the direction of a supervisor, whether the work is part of the defendant's
regular business operations, the skill required in the particular occupation,
the duration of the relationship of the parties, and the duration of the
plaintiff's employment. [Citations.] ‘ “Generally, ... the individual factors
cannot be applied mechanically as separate tests; they are intertwined and
their weight depends often on particular combinations.” ’ ” (Vernon v. State
of California (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114, 124-125, 10 Cal.Rptr.3d 121 (Vernon),
fn. omitted.) The most important factor is “the defendant's right to control
the means and manner of the workers’ performance.” (Id. at p. 126, 10
Cal.Rptr.3d 121.)”  (St. Myers v.
Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 311-12.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges as follows: 
 
On information and belief, GRAIL is and was at all relevant times
a wholly owned subsidiary of ... Illumina. 
On information and belief, Illumina, at all relevant times, had and has
100% ownership of interests or a controlling interest in GRAIL and exercises
ultimate control over GRAIL’s affairs—no matter the public facing statements
made by GRAIL and Illumina asserting that GRAIL is held completely separate
from Illumina and that Illumina does not have any material knowledge of or
control over GRAIL.  (Complaint, ¶ 3.)  
 
On information and belief, executives and leadership at Illumina
were made aware of the allegations detailed below in this Complaint and failed
to take any corrective action at GRAIL despite their knowledge of the events
alleged.  (Complaint, ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff is informed, believes, and based thereon alleges that
GRAIL, ILLUMINA, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive (“Defendants”), do business
jointly and are collectively liable under either a joint employer theory or a
single enterprise theory for the conduct described herein.  (Complaint, ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff is informed, believes, and based thereon alleges that,
at all times relevant herein alleged, each of the Defendants designated,
including DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, is and was the agent, managing agent,
principal, owner, partner, joint venture, representative, manager, servant,
employee, and/or co-conspirator of each of the other defendants and was at all
times mentioned herein acting within the course and scope of said agency,
employment, and/or representation. Plaintiff is further informed, believes, and
based thereon alleges that, at all relevant times as herein alleged, all acts
or omissions alleged herein were duly committed with the ratification,
knowledge, permission, encouragement, authorization, and/or consent of each of
the other Defendants herein designated, including DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive.  (Complaint, ¶ 7.)
 
The foregoing allegations are conclusory and
devoid of any factual support.  There are
no factual allegations stating that Illumina exercised control over Plaintiff’s
wages, hours or working conditions.  And
critically, there are no allegations that Illumina had the right to control the
means and manner of Plaintiff’s work performance at GRAIL.  Rather, the Complaint makes clear that the
alleged wrongful conduct was committed by GRAIL employees (see, e.g.,
Complaint, ¶¶ 33-34, 37-38, 42-45, 48-50, 53, 54, 57), while Plaintiff was
employed by GRAIL (Complaint, ¶ 20).  In essence,
Plaintiff seeks to hold Illumina liable for the alleged conduct based solely on
Illumina’s status as the parent company of GRAIL.  However, a parent corporation is not liable
for the torts of its subsidiary simply because it owns the subsidiary. (Northern
Natural Gas Co. v. Superior Court (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 983, 991; see also Noe
v. Superior Court (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 316, 332 [observing there is “no
authority suggesting that, under California law, joint employers are generally
treated as if they were each other’s agents or that joint employers are
normally held jointly liable for Labor Code violation committed by a
co-employer]”.)  The Complaint does not sufficiently allege Illumina’s
liability pursuant to a joint employer theory.
 
            2.
Single Enterprise Theory
 
“An employee who seeks to hold a parent
corporation liable for the acts or omissions of its subsidiary on the theory
that the two corporate entities constitute a single employer has a heavy burden
to meet under both California and federal law. Corporate entities are presumed
to have separate existences, and the corporate form will be disregarded only
when the ends of justice require this result.” 
(Laird v. Cap. Cities/ABC, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 727, 737.)  Courts employ a four-factor test to determine
whether two corporations should be considered a single employer.  The factors are (1) interrelation of
operations, (2) common management, (3) centralized control of labor relations,
and (4) common ownership or financial control.  (Id.) 
Further, under this test, common ownership or control alone is never
enough to establish parent liability. 
Centralized control of labor relations is often deemed the most critical
factor.  To satisfy the centralized control
prong, a parent must control the day-to-day employment decisions of the
subsidiary.  (Id. at p. 738.)  
 
Here, the Complaint again falls short of the
mark.  There are no allegations regarding
any of the four factors set forth under Laird.  Plaintiff contends the allegation that
“[o]n information and belief, Illumina, at all relevant times, had and has 100%
ownership of interests or a controlling interest in GRAIL and exercises
ultimate control over GRAIL’s affairs” (Complaint, ¶ 3), sufficiently alleges
that Illumina and Grail were a single enterprise.  However, this allegation only establishes
Illumina’s common ownership or control of GRAIL.  As Laird states,  “common ownership or control alone is never
enough to establish parent liability.”  (Laird,
68 Cal.App.4th at p. 738.)
 
The Complaint is deficient.  Having so concluded, the Court does not
address Illumina’s alternative request for a stay.
 
 IV.
      CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff Linda Mansolillo is ordered to file and serve the
First Amended Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant Illumina, Inc. is ordered to file and serve its responsive
pleading within 30 days of service with the amended pleading. 
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   December 4,
2023                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            