..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number:  23STCV10465
Plaintiff's Name: Jasmine Soto Cruz
Defendant's Name: Fernandez Perez Mulgado, ET AL.
People-Names: Jasmine Soto Cruz, Fernandez Perez Mulgado
Company-Names: FM Perez Transport Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, I-710 Fwy, Olympic Blvd, Whittier Blvd
Dates: May 10, 2023, May 19, 2021
Events: Automobile accident, Demurrer, Motion to Strike
Money: Punitive damages
Intentions: To test the legal sufficiency of the complaint
Facts: Plaintiff's vehicle was struck by Mulgado's vehicle, Mulgado fled the scene
Disputes: Whether the complaint adequately alleges a cause of action for punitive damages
Acts: Demurrer, Motion to Strike, Filing of the complaint
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Brooks v. E. J. Willig Truck Transp. Co., Taylor v. Superior Court, Brousseau v. Jarrett, Hilliard v. AH Robbins Co.
Statutes: California Civil Code § 3294, California Code of Civil Procedure § 422.10, § 589, § 430.41(a), § 436
Roles:
  - Judge: Michelle C. Kim
  - Plaintiff: Jasmine Soto Cruz
  - Defendant: Fernandez Perez Mulgado, ET AL.
Significant Statements:
  - The complaint does not adequately allege a cause of action for punitive damages
  - The alleged violation of Vehicle Code 20001(a) is not a cause of action in itself, but rather goes to the issue of duty and liability
  - The complaint's allegations do not rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression required to support a claim for punitive damages
  - The motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED
```

Summary:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer and motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages in a civil case involving an automobile accident. The plaintiff, Jasmine Soto Cruz, alleges that the defendant, Fernandez Perez Mulgado, was negligent and that he fled the scene of the accident. The defendant moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages, arguing that the allegations do not rise to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression required to support a claim for punitive damages. The judge agrees with the defendant and grants the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages. The judge also strikes the heading of the third cause of action, which alleged a violation of Vehicle Code 20001(a), and grants the plaintiff 20 days to amend the complaint.
