 Case Number:  22STLC06320    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  26   
Hilliard v. Coldwell Bank Realty, et al.LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING
(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Miesha Hilliard’s
Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Miesha
Hilliard (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against Defendants B&A
Group, LLC, Denise Caceres, Coldwell Banker Realty, and Skyler Hynes on September
27, 2022. On December 13, 2021, Defendant filed an answer to the Complaint. The
latter two Defendants were dismissed from the action by Plaintiff on October 12
and 13, 2024. Plaintiff then added Defendant Azusa Exchange Group, Inc. via doe
amendment on April 6, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint on June 27, 2024. Defendants
filed an opposition on September 3, 2024 and Plaintiff replied on September 6,
2024.
 
Discussion
 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for unlawful retention of security
deposit, breach of lease agreement, negligence, and conversion against Defendants. Plaintiff now
moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks to add a fifth cause of action against Defendants
for violation of Penal Code section 496, subdivisions (a) and (c), and to
reclassify this action as one for damages in excess of $35,000.00. (Notice of
Motion, p. 2:15-25.) 
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines of the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
Plaintiff’s Motion is not supported by an adequate
declaration explaining what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. Instead, the supporting
declaration states in conclusory fashion: “Through my investigation and
discovery efforts in this case, I have learned facts showing the defendants
engaged in misconduct in relation to these funds. Specifically, the defendants’
actions demonstrate a fraudulent intent to steal and wrongfully retain the
plaintiffs' money.” (Motion, Verdun Decl., ¶4.) No information is provided
regarding what investigation and discovery was conducted, nor when. No
information is provided regarding what facts were learned, nor what evidence
supports these facts. The reply declaration also does not meet the statutory
requirements and speaks only about discovery propounded by Defendants. (Reply,
Verdun Decl., ¶¶2-4.) Plaintiff’s counsel was also apparently unaware that a
trial date has been set in this action for less than two months away. (Id.
at ¶8.) Shockingly, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that “This case remains in the
early stages of litigation, with no trial date set and the discovery still
ongoing.” (Ibid.) In fact, trial is set for November 6, 2024 and the
discovery cutoff date is less than one month away. The requirements for leave
to amend, therefore, are not satisfied.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Miesha Hilliard’s
Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 