  Case Number:  18STCV04752    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  49 Kurt Knutsson, et al. v. Judith Salkow Shapiro, et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING PARTIES: Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust CompanyRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc. bring this suit against the law corporation of their deceased former lawyer, Judith Salkow Shapiro, for legal malpractice and fraud in the handling of an underlying employment and right of publicity action against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations.  The operative Second Amended Complaint asserts causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Professional Negligence/Legal Malpractice, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.  Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust Company now move for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. Plaintiffs opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is also DENIED.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationI. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294).  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.)  Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.  (§ 437c(o)(2).)II. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 7.  The court takes judicial notice of the exhibits without assuming the truth of the assertions contained therein. (See Seelig v. Infinity Broad. Corp. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 798, 808.) Plaintiffs’ objections to same are OVERRULED.III. Objections to EvidencePursuant to CCP § 437c(q), the Court only rules upon objections asserted against evidence which the Court deems to be material to the disposition of this motion, as follows:Plaintiffs object generally to Defendants’ separate statement because the “issues” stated in Defendants’ notice are not identical to the issues used in the separate statement. The court concludes Plaintiffs have sufficient notice of the issues to be addressed and are not prejudiced by the inconsistencies. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ objection to the Separate Statement is OVERRULED.Defendants’ objections to the Declaration of Kurt Knutsson numbers 11, 12, and 13 are OVERRULED.IV. AnalysisA. BackgroundThis legal malpractice action arises out of now deceased attorney Judith Shapiro’s representation of Plaintiffs in Knutsson, et al. v. KTLA, et al. Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. BC500792 (the “Underlying Action”). There, Plaintiffs brought right of publicity claims against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations. Initially, Plaintiffs defeated Local TV’s motion for summary judgment of the right of publicity claims. However, Local TV then successfully petitioned the Court of Appeal for a writ of mandate. As a result, summary judgment was granted against Plaintiffs, and on April 11, 2017, Knutsson was ordered to pay $327,171 in attorney’s fees to Local TV. Now, in the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc., allege Defendants “failed to obtain the learning or skill necessary to evaluate the claim they included for violation of California Civil Code Section 3344 (Use of Another’s Name, Voice, Signature, Photograph or Likeness in Advertising or Soliciting Without Prior Consent), nor did they associate with competent counsel or refer the matter to other counsel with sufficient learning and skill to evaluate such a claim.” (SAC ¶ 22.) Following an appeal, Plaintiffs “were ordered to pay attorneys’ fees to Local TV, LLC in the sum of $327,171.00 plus post judgment interest of 10% per annum, which required Plaintiffs to obtain litigation financing that required them to give up a substantial percentage of their ultimate recovery in the underlying litigation.” (Id. ¶ 32.) B. Statute of Limitations and Continuing RepresentationAt issue in this motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is whether Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6 provides that the statute of limitations for legal malpractice is one year.  However, subsection (a)(2) provides that the time to bring a legal malpractice claim “shall be tolled during the time…[t]he attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.”  In Nielsen v. Beck (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 1041, a client sued its former attorney for legal malpractice. (Id. at 1048.)  The trial court granted the attorney’s motion for summary judgment, concluding that the lawsuit was barred by the one-year statute of limitations.  In doing so, the trial court rejected the client’s argument that the “continuous representation” rule of section 340.6(a)(2) had tolled the limitations period.  On appeal, the Court of Appeal held the trial court improperly granted the motion for summary judgment.  Notably, even though a substitution of attorney form had been filed, there was evidence “from which a trier of fact could conclude that the relationship between [the attorney and client] had not been severed at the time the substitution of attorney form was signed.”  (Id. at 1051.)  This evidence included telephone calls in which the attorney rendered “professional services” in the form of “negotiations, options, and strategy.”  (Id.) The Court rejected the attorney’s argument that he was merely being “cordial,” stating this “creates sufficient evidence that may convince a trier of fact to the contrary.”  (Id. at 1052.)  In addition, the court explained that the substitution of attorney form was “was not the key to this analysis.  A reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the parties intended that [the attorney] no longer act as litigation counsel, but he was expected to continue to provide transactional advice, as evidenced by the three September 2004 telephone calls.”  (Id.)The Nielsen Court also addressed the scope of the representation, of which there were also disputes of fact.  “In addition to the issue of timing, in order to fall within the tolling provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6, subdivision (a)(2), the attorney must have continued ‘to represent the plaintiff regarding the same specific subject matter[ ]’ (§ 340.6, subd. (a)(2), italics added) as to which the negligence occurred.”  (Id. at 1052-53.) “The continuing representation tolling provision ‘is not applicable when there is a continuing relationship between the client and the attorney involving only unrelated matters. [Citation.]’”  (Id. at 1053.) In that case, the court found the attorney’s “representation in the bankruptcy case and [] representation in the unlawful detainer proceedings can be seen to be intertwined and related, having overlapping objectives and purposes. The legal representation could be seen to have arisen from the same event.”  (Id. at 1054.) Hence, there were disputes of fact that precluded summary judgment.  (Id.)Continuous representation is an objective standard, and “the limitations period can be tolled even though the client is aware of the attorney’s negligence.”  (Nielsen, 157 Cal. App. 4th at 1049 [“Continuity of representation ultimately depends, not on the client's subjective beliefs, but rather on evidence of an ongoing mutual relationship and of activities in furtherance of the relationship.”].)  The analysis is “when the client actually has or reasonably should have no expectation that the attorney will provide further legal services. [Citation.]”  (Id. at 1050.)  Thus, on a motion for summary judgment that invokes “continuous representation,” the question is “whether, using an objective standard, there are triable issues of fact about whether there was an ongoing relationship and activities in furtherance of the relationship.”  (Id. at 1050.)  On June 16, 2017, Shapiro filed a “Notice of Withdrawal” in the underlying action. Shapiro passed away on November 11, 2017, following a bout with pancreatic cancer. Plaintiff filed this malpractice action on November 13, 2018. Defendants contend Plaintiffs suffered actual injury in the underlying action no later than April 11, 2017, when an award of attorneys’ fees was entered against Plaintiff. (SSUMF 13.) Defendants also contend by November 10, 2017, Plaintiffs did not have an objectively reasonable expectation that Shapiro was continuing to represent them in the Underlying Action because she had filed a notice of withdrawal long prior, had communicated that fact to the Plaintiffs, and had explained to Knutsson in detail her reasons for withdrawing. Therefore, Defendants argue that “any objectively reasonable client would have understood Shapiro’s notice of withdraw to be the end of her representation in the Underlying Action.” (Mtn. 10: 18-20.)In opposition, Plaintiffs counters that Shapiro continued to advise Knutsson about the KTLA case after the Notice of Withdrawal. Indeed, in her email to Knutsson acommanying her Notice of Withdrawal, Shapiro wrote she would “be happy to give” her “comments or suggestions” on a potential amended pleading. (SSDMF 15, Exh. 20.) Plaintiffs also present evidence that Shapiro had threatened to withdraw so frequently that the withdrawal could hardly be taken literally. (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 14.)Plaintiff also presents evidence of continued communications with Shapiro regarding the substance of the ongoing litigation. “In late October or early November 2017,” Knutsson called Shapiro to discuss his second deposition scheduled for a few weeks later. (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 18.) Knutsson “wanted to know why [he] had to have [his] deposition taken a second time” and whether he should fight it. (Id.) Shapiro advised him “it would not be worth it to try to prevent the deposition from going forward,” and “launched into criticisms” of Knutsson’s performance at his first deposition. (Id.) Shapiro advised Knutsson on how to handle himself at the second deposition. (Id.)Knutsson presents evidence he learned of Shapiro’s death on or about November 12, 2017, and was “completely shocked at the news.” (Knutsson Decl. ¶ 21.) Although he was aware of her pancreatic cancer diagnosis, he believed “that people could live for years after they were diagnosed with that form of cancer.” (Id.) Knutsson also states that Shapiro “had a history of exaggerating her health issues,” which she would sometimes use to her advantage in litigation. (Id. ¶ 22.) Only after Shapiro passed—and with no one now advising Knutsson to preserve the right of publicity claims—did Knutsson advise his attorney dismiss those claims. (Id. ¶ 25.) Here, using an objective standard and considering the information known to Plaintiffs, a reasonable trier of fact could construe this evidence as demonstrating an ongoing attorney-client relationship, in which Shapiro rendered “professional services” in the form of “negotiations, options, and strategy.”  (Nielsen at 1051.) A jury could reasonably determine that Shapiro stayed on in an advisory attorney role until near the time of her death.  This conclusion is consistent with this court’s duty to “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Finally, because the court finds a triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiffs’ claims are timely within the one-year statute of limitations period, the court need not determine at this time whether a longer limitations period might apply to Plaintiffs’ fraud claim(s).C. Other ObservationsAlthough not raised in the briefing, the court notes the following point for sake of thoroughness on the statute of limitations issue. It is undisputed that Shapiro passed away on November 11, 2017. As such, she certainly could not continue to represent Plaintiff after her death (arguably or otherwise).  Therefore, assuming there was a continuing representation of Plaintiff up to and at the time of Shapiro’s death and viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, November 11, 2017, was the absolute last day that the one-year statute of limitations could begin running.  Of course, it could have begun running before that date, depending on whether the trier of fact accepts this continuing representation theory.Moving forward exactly one year, November 11, 2018, fell on a Sunday. The next day—Monday, November 12, 2018—was Veterans Day, an observed court holiday. Plaintiffs then filed their complaint the following day on Tuesday, November 13, 2018. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 12a(a), “[i]f the last day for the performance of any act provided or required by law to be performed within a specified period of time is a holiday, then that period is hereby extended to and including the next day that is not a holiday.” “Holidays within the meaning of this code are every Sunday and any other days that are specified or provided for as judicial holidays in Section 135.” (CCP § 10.)Therefore, because Sunday, November 11, 2018, and Monday, November 12, 2018, were “holidays” as that term is used in the Code of Civil Procedure, under the continuing representation theory, Plaintiffs had until Tuesday, November 13, 2018, to file this action. Plaintiffs did, in fact, file this action on that last day. The action was therefore timely for purposes of this motion, under the Plaintiff’s continuing representation theory.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is also DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 26, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.