 Case Number:  21STCV41718    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  49 Mark Metzelar v. Testan LawDEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO FILE ITS MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AND DOCUMENTS REFERENCED THEREIN UNDER SEAL MOVING PARTY: Defendant Testan Law, A Professional CorporationRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Mark MetzelarSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: This is an employment dispute. Plaintiff Mark Metzelar alleges he worked for Defendant Testan Law as an attorney until his alleged wrongful termination in 2020. Plaintiff alleges he suffered a stroke on or about August 13, 2019. The stroke caused Plaintiff to suffer cognitive difficulties that made it difficult for Plaintiff to spell when writing or typing. This required that Plaintiff return to work with certain restrictions. Upon his return, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants assigned him cases known as “problem files” and failed to reasonably accommodate his disability. Plaintiff alleges Defendant terminated him after learning that his wife assisted him in proofreading and editing emails allegedly protected by HIPAA. Defendant now moves for an order permitting it to file portions of its Motion for Summary Adjudication and certain documents referenced therein under seal. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s
Motion to Seal is DENIED.   Pursuant to
Cal. Rules Court, rule 2.550 (b)(6), Defendant must notify this Court within 10
days as to what conditionally sealed documents, if any, may become unsealed in
connection to the Defendant’s pending motion.  
If no such notification is timely received, this Court will order that
the conditionally sealed documents be stricken from the record and court file,
and such documents shall not be considered by this Court.

 . Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion to SealI. Legal StandardThe sealing of court records is governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551.  (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.)  The presumption of open access to court records does not apply to “records that are required to be kept confidential by law.” (Cal. Rules Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to seal a court record or seeking to file a record under seal must do so by motion or application supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the record’s sealing.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(1).)  California Rules of Court rule 2.550(d) states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  Once sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court.  (Id., rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.)II. AnalysisDefendant Testan moves for an Order permitting Testan to file portions of its Motion for Summary Adjudication and certain documents referenced therein under seal. Defendant contends the order is justified in order to preserve the confidentiality and privilege of attorney-client communications and attorney work product relating to Testan’s legal files that were assigned to Plaintiff during his employment at Testan as attorney. Defendant also contends the order is necessary “to preserve and prevent irreparable harm to the goodwill and reputations of the Parties.” (Mtn. 3: 9-10.)Plaintiff opposes the sealing order. Plaintiff argues Defendant has failed to demonstrate a compelling interest sufficient to override the strong presumption of public access to court records. Plaintiff also contends that to the extent any valid privilege might exist, Defendant’s proposal to seal the MSJ and related documents in its entirety is not narrowly tailored. The court has reviewed Defendant’s motion for summary judgment and accompanying documents lodged conditionally under seal. As an initial matter, it is not apparent that the issues to be sealed or redacted actually invoke the attorney-client privilege or include protected attorney work product. The matters to be sealed refer only generally to Plaintiff’s work and the actions purportedly taken by Plaintiff’s wife that allegedly led to Plaintiff’s termination. Therefore, Defendant has failed to establish an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the records.Second, and relatedly, Defendant has failed to demonstrate that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored. Defendant instead seeks to seal the entirety of its motion and accompanying documents. It appears, however, that the majority of the filings are not subject to a sealing order, if any.Finally, Defendant has failed to demonstrate any other overriding interest that warrants a sealing order. Although Defendant may have concerns that the matters to be sealed reflect poorly upon its reputation or good will, Defendant has failed to provide any authority suggesting this is a recognized reason for sealing under the circumstances.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Seal is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 26, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.