 Case Number:  23STCV03826    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 CINDY ROSEN,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 JAY BLOOM,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV03826




Hearing Date:


November 5, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR ORDER
  SUBSTITUTING WENDY ROSEN AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO DECEDENT, PLAINTIFF
  CINDY ROSEN
 



 
Background
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff Cindy Rosen (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Jay Bloom, Murder Inc., LLC, The Mafia Collection,
LLC, Julien
Entertainment.Com, Inc. and Julien’s Auction House, LLC. 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) unjust enrichment,
(3) intentional misrepresentation, 
(4)
financial elder abuse, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (6)
unfair competition, and (7) negligence.   
            Wendy Rosen moves “for an order
permitting her, as successor in interest to decedent Plaintiff CINDY ROSEN, to
proceed in this action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §377.30, et seq.” The motion is unopposed. 
            On October 1, 2024, the Court issued
a minute order continuing the hearing on the instant motion from October 1,
2024 to November 1, 2024.[1] The
Court’s October 1, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[o]n
or before 10/4/2024, Wendy Rosen will file and serve a revised declaration in
support of her motion. On or before 10/18/2024, Julien Entertainment.Com, Inc.
will file and serve either a notice of non opposition or an opposition. Any
reply will be filed and served on or before 10/25/2024.” 
            On October 7, 2024, Wendy Rosen
filed an amended declaration in support of the instant motion. On October 23,
2024, Julien Entertainment.Com, Inc. filed a notice of non-opposition to the
motion. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.30, “[a] cause of action that survives the
death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate
Code, and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representative
or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31, “[o]n motion
after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court
shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued
by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s
successor in interest.” Code of Civil Procedure section 377.11
provides that “[f]or the purposes of this chapter, ‘decedent’s successor in
interest’ means the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in
interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the
property that is the subject of a cause of action.” 
Wendy Rosen cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.32, which provides that “[t]he person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to
continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest
under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under
penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:
(1) The
decedent’s name.
(2) The
date and place of the decedent’s death.
(3) “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.”
(4) If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
(5) Either
of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
(A) “The
affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure)
and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
(B) “The
affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest
in the action or proceeding.”
(6) “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
(7) “The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).) 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (c), “[a] certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.”

On June 18, 2024, a notice of errata was filed
attaching the Declaration of Wendy Rosen. In her supporting declaration, Wendy
Rosen states that “Decedent is CINDY ROSEN, who died on November 11, 2023, at
Henderson, Nevada. She was my natural sister. Attached hereto as Exhibit ‘A’ is
a true and correct copy of the Certificate of Death of Cindy Beth Rosen.”
(Wendy Rosen Decl., ¶ 2.) Wendy Rosen states that “[t]here is no proceeding
pending now in California for administration of the CINDY ROSEN’s estate.” (Wendy
Rosen Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Wendy Rosen further
states that “[o]n February 1, 2024, I was issued Letters of Administration by
the District Court in Clark County, Nevada, Case No. P-24-119222-E, wherein I
was appointed Special Administrator of the Estate of Cindy Beth Rosen,
deceased, (‘Estate’), providing me with sole authority to act on behalf of the
Estate for purposes of maintaining the within action.” (Wendy Rosen Decl., ¶ 4.) Exhibit “B” to
Wendy Rosen’s declaration is “Letters of Special Administration” filed in Case
No. P-24-119222-E, In the Matter of the Estate of Cindy Beth Rosen, in
the District Court of Clark County, Nevada. (Wendy Rosen Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) The
Letters of Special Administration provide, inter alia, that “Special
Administrator, Wendy Rosen may act and have sole authority to act on behalf of
the Estate for purposes of maintaining the pending case of Cindy Rosen v.
Jay Bloom, an individual; Murder Inc., LLC, a Nevada limited liability company;
Julien Entertainment.com, Inc., a California corporation; and Julien’s Auction
House, LLC, a California limited liability company, which is Case No. 23STCV03826,
in the Superior Court of the State of California in Los Angeles County.” (Wendy Rosen Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. B, underline in original.) 
In the Court’s October
1, 2024 Order on Wendy Rosen’s motion, the Court noted that Wendy Rosen’s
original declaration did not appear to state either of the following, “with
facts in support thereof: (A) ‘The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s
interest in the action or proceeding.’ (B) ‘The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.’” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(5).)
In her amended declaration, Wendy Rosen states, inter alia, that “I am
the sister of Decedent CINDY ROSEN, and am her sole living relative and
surviving heir by intestacy. I am Decedent’s successor in interest as defined
in C.C.P. section 377.11 and therefore succeed to her interest in this action.”
(Amended Wendy Rosen Decl., ¶ 5.) 
The Court’s October 1, 2024 Order also noted
that Wendy Rosen’s original declaration did not appear to state that “[n]o
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(6).) In her
amended declaration, Wendy Rosen states that “Decedent had no surviving spouse.
Nor does Decedent have any children having a superior right to commence or
continue this action or to be substituted for her in this action, nor does any
other person have such a superior right.” (Amended Wendy Rosen Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds
that Wendy Rosen’s amended declaration addresses the deficiencies noted in the
Court’s October 1, 2024 Order. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court grants Wendy Rosen’s motion “for an order permitting her, as
successor in interest to decedent Plaintiff CINDY ROSEN, to proceed in this
action.” 
Wendy Rosen is ordered to
give notice of this Order.¿  
 
DATED:  November 5, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


