 Case Number:  23STCP03736    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  52 Petitioner Intelifund, LLC’s Petition
for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights 
            Petitioner
Intelifund, LLC petitions for approval of transfer of structured settlement
rights by payee Steve Ramos.
Insurance Code section 10137 provides:
A transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court
reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are met:
(a) The transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and
reasonable and in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the
welfare and support of his or her dependents.
(b) The transfer complies with the requirements of this article, will not
contravene other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the
transfer as provided in Section 10139.5. 
Insurance Code section 10139.5(b) requires the court
to consider 15 enumerated factors in determining whether this transfer should
be approved.  After considering all
relevant factors and the totality of the circumstances, the court finds the
transfer is fair, reasonable, and in payee Steve Ramos’s best interest. 
Express Written Findings
Insurance Code section 10139.5(a) requires the
court’s order of approval to include six “express written findings.”  The court hereby makes the following express
written findings as required under Insurance Code section 10139.5:
(1) The transfer is in the best interest of payee Ramos,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.  Ramos has no dependents.  (Ex. 3.) 
He plans to use the $104,808.87 from this transfer “to purchase a work truck and use the remaining [money]
for a down payment on a condo.”  (Ex. 5,
Ramos Decl., ¶ 6.)
(2) Payee Ramos has been advised in writing by Intelifund,
LLC to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.  (Ex. 4; Ex. 5, Ramos Decl., ¶ 11.)  
(3) The transferee has complied with the
notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the
transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with
Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and
10138.
(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5) Payee Ramos understands the terms of the
transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement
required by Section 10136.
(6) Payee Ramos understands and does not wish to
exercise his right as payee to cancel the transfer agreement.
Disposition
The court hereby grants petitioner Intelifund,
LLC’s petition for approval for transfer of structured settlement payment
rights.  The court hereby approves
the proposed transfer attached to the motion as Exhibit 2.  