 Case Number:  23STCV11090    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING      ANTONIO GALLEGOS, AN ELDER, BY AND    THROUGH HIS GUARDIAN AD LITEM, ANABEL SIMPEH,                                      Plaintiff,             v.     EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER, et    al.,                                     Defendants.      Case No:     23STCV11090            Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024  Calendar Number:  8 (Add-On)          Defendant Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital  (“Defendant”) opposes the proposed judgment filed by Plaintiff Antonio Gallegos  (“Plaintiff”) and moves for an order reducing the jury’s verdict for  noneconomic damages in favor of Plaintiff.   Defendant argues that, under the facts of this case, the  judgment for noneconomic damages must be capped at $390,000 under MICRA, Civil  Code section 3333.2.  Defendant’s  argument raises two questions: (a) Did Plaintiff prevail on his claim for  elder/abuse neglect even though the jury found that Defendant did not act with  recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice?   (b) Assuming that Plaintiff prevailed on his claim for elder  abuse/neglect, is this an action for injury against . . . a health care  institution based on professional negligence” (Civil Code § 3333.2) that is  subject to the MICRA cap?   For the reasons explained below, the Court determines that  Plaintiff did prevail on his claim for elder abuse/neglect, and that this claim  is not subject to MICRA.  Accordingly,  the Court Overrules Defendant’s objection to the proposed judgment and declines  to impose the cap.        Background   Plaintiff alleged and proceeded to trial on two causes of  action: (a) elder abuse/neglect; and (b) professional negligence.   Plaintiff was a patient at Defendant Emanate Health Queen of  the Valley Hospital, where he underwent a surgical hip operation. A few days  later, while in recovery at the hospital, Plaintiff suffered an unwitnessed  fall in the middle of the night. Plaintiff was later diagnosed with a  subarachnoid hemorrhage and a cervical fracture. Plaintiff remained  hospitalized for several months following the fall and received treatment for  his medical conditions and injuries.   At trial, Plaintiff presented evidence that Defendant’s  nursing staff had failed to take adequate safety precautions and adequately  monitor Plaintiff to avoid the fall. Plaintiff presented evidence that  Defendant maintained inadequate nursing staffing and that the nursing staff  were overworked at the time when Plaintiff fell.   Plaintiff presented evidence, among other things, that  nursing staff could not recall taking cervical precautions following the fall  and failed to use Defendant’s patient transport team. Plaintiff also presented  evidence that the nursing staff delayed for two days after the fall before  seeking a neurosurgical physician consultation for Plaintiff’s complaints of  neck pain and failed to follow the physician’s subsequent orders that Plaintiff  be placed in a cervical collar “NOW,” delaying for 30 hours. Plaintiff also provided  evidence that the nursing staff improperly applied restraints to Plaintiff  after the fall, rather than using a less restrictive means to provide for  Plaintiff’s safety such as the use of pain medications or placing a sitter in  Plaintiff’s room.   The jury returned its verdict on March 14, 2024, finding in  favor of Plaintiff on his Negligence claim. The jury also found in Plaintiff’s  favor on Plaintiff’s claim for Elder Abuse/Neglect but found that Defendant’s  conduct that is the basis for the claim was not reckless, malicious,  fraudulent, or oppressive. The jury awarded Plaintiff $425,688.41 for economic  losses and $1,400,000.00 for noneconomic losses.   Following the verdict, Plaintiff filed a proposed judgment  consistent with the jury verdict. Plaintiff also filed a notice of election of  remedies which stated that Plaintiff “elects his remedies under Welfare and  Institutions Code § 15657 over any rights he has under Welfare and Institutions  Code § 15657.2.” (Plaintiff’s Election of Remedies at p. 1:21-23.)   Defendant objected to the proposed judgment, arguing that  the amount of noneconomic damages should be reduced to $390,000.00 under the  MICRA, Civil Code, section 3333.2. The Court requested briefing on the  applicability of MICRA and whether noneconomic damages should be reduced as  Defendant requested.   Defendant filed its brief on April 4, 2024. Plaintiff filed  an opposition on April 8, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on April 16, 2024. On  April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a sur-opposition and on April 18, 2024,  Defendant filed a response to the sur-opposition, neither of which were  authorized by the Court.   At the May 3, 2024 hearing, the Court asked for argument on  five separate questions relevant to this decision.  Plaintiff filed a written response on May 3,  2024 and Defendant filed a written reply to that response on May 15, 2024.   Discussion   MICRA, Civil Code section 3333.2, caps noneconomic damages  at $390,000 in actions for professional negligence against health care  providers and health care institutions. (Civ. Code, § 3333.2 subds. (a), (b),  (g).) “[A]ny cause of action for injury or damage against a health care  provider, […] based on the health care provider's alleged professional  negligence, shall be governed by those laws which specifically apply to those  professional negligence causes of action.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.2.)  Defendant’s objection to Plaintiff’s proposed  verdict raises the question whether MICRA applies to the current case.   Plaintiff prevailed on his Elder Abuse claim   Defendant argues that, notwithstanding the jury verdict in  Plaintiff’s favor on the elder abuse claim, Plaintiff did not prevail on that  claim because he failed to prove that Defendant’s conduct was reckless,  malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent.   The Elder Abuse act defines neglect as follows:   (a) "Neglect" means either of the following:   (1) The negligent  failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent  adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like  position would exercise. (2) The negligent  failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise that degree of self care  that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.   (b) Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the  following:   […]    (2) Failure to provide  medical care for physical and mental health needs. A person shall not be deemed  neglected or abused for the sole reason that the person voluntarily relies on  treatment by spiritual means through prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment. (3) Failure to protect from health  and safety hazards.”   (Welf. & Inst. Code, §  15610.57.)               The  Elder Abuse Act further provides:   Where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for . . . neglect as defined in  Section 15610.57. . . and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,  oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse, the following  shall apply, in addition to all other remedies otherwise provided by law:   (a) The court shall  award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's fees and costs. The term ‘costs’  includes, but is not limited to, reasonable fees for the services of a  conservator, if any, devoted to the litigation of a claim brought under this  article.   (b) The limitations  imposed by Section 377.34 of the Code of Civil Procedure on the damages  recoverable shall not apply. However, the damages recovered shall not exceed  the damages permitted to be recovered pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section  3333.2 of the Civil Code.”   (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.)               Code  of Civil Procedure, section 377.34 provides that a decedent’s personal  representative or successor in interest may not generally recover damages for  pain, suffering, or disfigurement that the decedent sustained before death.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34, subd. (a).)               Defendant  argues that a plaintiff may only pursue a cause of action for elder abuse or  neglect if the requirements of section 15657— recklessness, oppression, fraud,  or malice—are met. Plaintiff argues that section 15610.57 creates a cause of  action for elder neglect that does not require a showing of recklessness,  malice, oppression, or fraud.                 California  law does not provide a clear and unequivocal resolution of this basic question.  While the issue is close, the Court ultimately agrees with Plaintiff.                 As  an initial matter, the statutory language most closely aligns with Plaintiff’s  argument. Section 15657 appears to be a heightened remedies provision, not a  baseline requirement for proving the claim. It states that “Where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for […]  neglect as defined in Section 15610.57, […] and that the defendant has  been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of  this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies  otherwise provided by law […]” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657 [emphasis  added].) The plain language of this section indicates that guilt of  recklessness, oppression, malice, or fraud can exist in conjunction with  liability for neglect. Thus, liability for neglect is a separate question from  whether recklessness, oppression, malice, or fraud exist.               Plaintiff’s  contention that section 15657 does not restrict a plaintiff’s ability to prove  general elder neglect is supported by its legislative history, as well as  California courts’ interpretation of that history.                “The  amendment [adding section 15657] did not add a cause of action. Elder abuse was  first defined by the 1982 act. […] The amendment in 1991 demonstrates the  Legislature's belief civil cases could have been brought under then-existing  law; in 1991 it only made changes designed to encourage persons to bring such  actions. The 1991 amendment did not even increase the measure of damages  for elder abuse. It only partially removed a limitation which would otherwise  have barred a survivor from recovering the damages on the decedent's behalf.” (ARA  Living Centers - Pacific, Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th  1556, 1563 [emphasis added, internal citations omitted].               The  California Supreme Court similarly acknowledged that it was possible to bring  civil claims for elder abuse prior to the 1991 amendments: “In the 1991  amendments at issue here, the focus shifted to private, civil enforcement of  laws against elder abuse and neglect. ‘[T]he Legislature declared that ‘[…] few  civil cases are brought in connection with [elder] abuse due to problems of  proof, court delays, and the lack of incentives to prosecute these suits. It  stated the legislative intent to enable interested persons to engage attorneys  to take up the cause of abused elderly persons and dependent adults.” (Delaney  v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 33 [internal citations and quotation marks  omitted].) “As was stated in the Senate Rules Committee's analysis of Senate  Bill No. 679, ‘in practice, the death of the victim and the difficulty in  finding an attorney to handle an abuse case where attorneys fees may not be  awarded, impedes many victims from suing successfully. […] This bill would  address the problem by: ... authorizing the court to award attorney's fees in  specified cases; [and by] allowing pain and suffering damages to be awarded  when a verdict of intentional and reckless abuse was handed down after the  abused elder dies.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)    Defendant argues that Perlin v. Fountain View Management,  Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 657, 666 supports the contention that section  15657 must be satisfied in order for a plaintiff to prevail on a claim for  elder abuse. Defendant misreads Perlin. The Perlin court  evaluated whether a plaintiff who prevailed at trial on an elder abuse claim  could obtain attorney’s fees where the section 15657 requirements were not met,  determining that the plaintiff could not. (Id. at pp. 659-660, 666.) Moreover,  Perlin involved issues of causation, not recklessness. (Id. at p.  660.) Causation is not at issue here.                 The  Court notes that the CACI instructions that both Plaintiff and Defendant  requested does not require recklessness as an essential element of the claim.  (CACI 3103-Neglect—Essential Factual Elements.) The CACI instructions inform  the jury that Plaintiff might also be entitled to certain enhanced remedies such  as attorneys fees (the amount to be determined by the Court) if the jury makes a  determination of recklessness.  (CACI  3104—Neglect—Enhanced Remedies Sought.)   There are three appellate cases of which the Court is aware  that seem to assume that recklessness is an element of elder abuse/neglect: Carter  v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396 (Carter),  Worsham v. O'Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331 (Worsham)  and Cochrum v. Costa Victoria Healthcare, LLC (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1034  (Cochrum.) Carter and Worsham both affirmed orders sustaining  demurrers to an elder abuse claim where the allegations did not show  recklessness.  Cochrum affirmed JNOV  in the same circumstances. But all three of these cases considered the issue in  the context in which the parties and the court focused on the question of the  enhanced damages aspect of the elder abuse recovery.  Thus, Carter discusses what a  plaintiff must do to “recover the enhanced remedies available under the Elder  Abuse Act.” (Carter, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 405.) Worsham emphasized  that the Elder Abuse Act “makes certain enhanced remedies available to a  plaintiff” and discussed what was needed to “obtain the enhanced remedies of  section 15657.”  (Worsham, 226  Cal.App.4th at pp. 336-337.) Cochrum discussed whether the conduct was  “sufficiently egregious to warrant the award of enhanced remedies.” (Cochrum,  25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1046.)  It is not  clear that the plaintiff in any of these cases expressly argued that the elder  abuse/neglect claim should stand without the enhanced damages. None of these  cases squarely discussed that issue. Yet that is the issue presented here.                 Accordingly,  the Court determines that Plaintiff prevailed on his claim of elder abuse even  without a showing of recklessness. However, because Plaintiff failed to prove  recklessness, Plaintiff is not entitled to section 15657’s enhanced remedies.   Plaintiff’s claim is not ‘based on’ professional negligence under Civil  Code, section 3333.2   As discussed above, Civil Code, section 3333.2 caps  noneconomic damages at $390,000 in actions for professional negligence against  health care providers and health care institutions. (Civ. Code, § 3333.2 subds.  (a), (b), (g).) “[A]ny cause of action for injury or damage against a health  care provider, […] based on the health care provider's alleged professional  negligence, shall be governed by those laws which specifically apply to those  professional negligence causes of action.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.2.)   Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim in this  action sounds in professional negligence because it arises out of the negligent  failure to provide adequate medical services. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s  elder abuse claim is therefore still subject to the MICRA cap. Defendant argues  that, in order to show that his claim does not arise out of professional  negligence, and thereby obtain noneconomic damages in excess of the MICRA cap,  Plaintiff would have to satisfy the requirements of section 15657 – in  particular, showing that Defendant acted with recklessness, malice, fraud, or  oppression. For the reasons set forth below, the Court disagrees with these  contentions.   Satisfaction of Section 15657 is not necessary to avoid the MICRA cap on  non-economic damages   As an initial matter, section 15657 does not provide that the  satisfaction of its requirements is necessary or sufficient in order to  obtain damages in excess of the MICRA cap (for a living plaintiff, at least). Section  15657’s enhanced remedies include costs, attorney’s fees. When the elder in  question is deceased, satisfaction of section 15657 also alleviates Code of  Civil Procedure, section 377.34’s prohibition on non-economic damages, and  permits their recovery up to the MICRA cap. As Plaintiff notes, section 15657(b)’s  application of the MICRA cap is limited to deceased elders. (Samantha B. v.  Aurora Vista Del Mar, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 85, 97-100, 104 [declining  to apply the MICRA cap where the plaintiff elder was not deceased, the jury  found that the defendant medical institution behaved recklessly, and the  underlying claim was for sexual assault by an unlicensed worker].)   Defendant argues that Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20  Cal.4th 23 holds that satisfaction of section 15657 is necessary to raise an  elder neglect claim against a medical institution beyond the realm of mere  professional negligence, thus permitting a plaintiff to avoid the MICRA cap.   In Delaney v. Baker, the California Supreme Court  evaluated the defendant’s argument that “the term ‘based on ... professional  negligence’ covers all conduct ‘directly related to the rendition of  professional services’—a reading they argue would broadly exempt from the  heightened remedies of section 15657 health care providers who recklessly  neglect elder and dependent adults.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th  23, 30-31 [internal citations omitted].) The Court compared the amici curiae’s  argument that “‘reckless neglect’ under section 15657 is distinct from causes  of action ‘based on ... professional negligence’ within the meaning of section  15657.2, and so health care providers who engage in such neglect would be  subject to section 15657's remedies.” (Id. at p. 31.) The Court  concluded that the amici curiae’s position best followed the language and  purpose of the statute. (Ibid.)   “[N]eglect within the meaning of former section 15610.57  appears to cover an area of misconduct distinct from ‘professional negligence’  in section 15657.2: ‘neglect’ as defined in former section 15610.57 and used in  section 15657 does not refer to the performance of medical services in a manner  inferior to ‘the knowledge, skill and care ordinarily possessed and employed by  members of the profession in good standing’, but rather to the failure of those  responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations. It is instructive that the statutory definition … gives  as an example of ‘neglect’ not negligence in the undertaking of medical services  but the more fundamental ‘[f]ailure to provide medical care for physical and  mental health needs.’” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 34  [internal citations and quotation marks omitted, cleaned up].)   “Section 15657 provides the way out of this ambiguity: if  the neglect is reckless, or done with oppression, fraud or malice, then the  action falls within the scope of section 15657 and as such cannot be considered  simply based on professional negligence within the meaning of section 15657.2.  The use of such language in section 15657, and the explicit exclusion of ‘professional  negligence’ in section 15657.2, make clear the Elder Abuse Act's goal was to  provide heightened remedies for, as stated in the legislative history, ‘acts of  egregious abuse’ against elder and dependent adults, while allowing acts of  negligence in the rendition of medical services to elder and dependent adults  to be governed by laws specifically applicable to such negligence. That  only these egregious acts were intended to be sanctioned under section 15657 is  further underscored by the fact that the statute requires liability to be  proved by a heightened ‘clear and convincing evidence’ standard.” (Delaney,  supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 35 [emphasis added, internal citations and  quotation marks omitted, cleaned up].)   Defendant argues that this language in Delaney draws a line  between the cases in which the MICRA cap applies and the cases in which it does  not. Delaney is not as on-point as Defendant argues. Delaney’s  ruling took a restrictive view of MICRA’s applicability, not an expansive one.  The Delaney court held that satisfaction of section 15657 was sufficient  for the plaintiff to obtain the attorney’s fees provided for by Section 15657,  even in the face of the MICRA cap. The Court did not hold that  satisfaction of Section 15657 was necessary to obtain non-economic damages  in excess of the MICRA cap because the plaintiff there never obtained  non-economic damages in excess of the MICRA cap (Delaney, supra,  20 Cal.4th at p. 28), and, in any event, the text of Section 15657 simply does  not state that its satisfaction is either necessary or sufficient to  allow a plaintiff to obtain noneconomic damages in excess of the MICRA cap.  Thus, Delaney’s statement that “the Elder Abuse Act's goal was to  provide heightened remedies for, as stated in the legislative history, acts of  egregious abuse against elder and dependent adults … while allowing acts of  negligence in the rendition of medical services to elder and dependent adults  to be governed by laws specifically applicable to such negligence” (Id.  at p. 35 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted]) is a statement on when  the legislature intended to provide section 15657’s heightened remedies of attorney’s  fees and costs, rather than a statement that of section 15657 lays out blanket  requirements for a plaintiff to show that any elder neglect claim is not  based on professional negligence.   The MICRA cap on non-economic damages does not apply because the elder  neglect cause of action is not based in professional negligence   Plaintiff provides a different theory delineating when MICRA  applies to elder neglect actions against medical institutions, which the Court  finds persuasive. Plaintiff argues that MICRA applies to cases “based on  professional negligence” (Civ. Code, § 3333.2, subd. (a), (b) [emphasis  added]), and not arising out of professional negligence. Plaintiff  argues that the distinction is as follows: when an action asserts liability on  a legal theory of professional negligence, that action is based on  professional negligence and is therefore subject to MICRA. When a plaintiff  asserts liability on a theory other than professional negligence, on fact that  would nevertheless constitute professional negligence, that claim arises  out of professional negligence but is not based on professional negligence  and is therefore not subject to MICRA.   Plaintiff contrasts Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.13,  subd. (a), which states that “[i]n any action for damages arising out of  the professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive  damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the  court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for  punitive damages to be filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a) [emphasis  added].) “Where different words or phrases are used in the same connection in  different parts of a statute, it is presumed the Legislature intended a  different meaning.” (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity  (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1117.)               Courts  have acknowledged this distinction. “If section 3333.2 is in fact the most  significant limitation created by MICRA, it is also one of the most Draconian.  When as a matter of legislative fiat the courts are required to reduce awards  of noneconomic damages to $250,000 without regard to the result of a health  care provider's negligence—notwithstanding brain damage, paralysis, and other  equally devastating injury—the scope of that fiat must be limited to its terms.  By its plain language, the cap imposed by section 3333.2 applies only in  actions ‘based on professional negligence,’ not (like Code of Civil Procedure  section 425.13) to actions for ‘damages arising out of professional  negligence.’ Whatever argument there may be to support a broad construction of  ‘arising out of,’ we do not think it applies to a statute in which those words  were not used.” (Perry v. Shaw (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 658, 668–669.)               “The  problem is that additional causes of action frequently arise out of the same  facts as a medical malpractice cause of action. These may include battery,  products liability, premises liability, fraud, breach of contract, and  intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress. Indeed, a plaintiff  hoping to evade the restrictions of MICRA may choose to assert only seemingly  non-MICRA causes of action. Thus, when a cause of action is asserted against  a health care provider on a legal theory other than medical malpractice, the  courts must determine whether it is nevertheless based on the ‘professional  negligence’ of the health care provider so as to trigger MICRA. The answer is  sometimes yes and sometimes no, depending on [1] the particular cause of action  and [2] the particular MICRA provision at issue.” (Smith v. Ben Bennett,  Inc. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1507, 1514 [emphasis added].) “To ensure that  the legislative intent underlying MICRA is implemented, [courts] have  recognized that the scope of conduct afforded protection under MICRA provisions  (actions ‘based on professional negligence’) must be determined after  consideration of the purpose underlying each of the individual statutes.” (Central  Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th  181, 192.)    Here, the cause of action at issue is elder neglect, and the  MICRA provision at issue is section 3333.2’s cap on non-economic damages.   The Delaney court’s language indicates a policy in  favor of making it easier to bring elder neglect claims. The Delaney  court acknowledged the legislature’s concern that “that dependent adults may be  subjected to abuse, neglect, or abandonment and that this state has a  responsibility to protect such persons.” (Delaney, supra, 20  Cal.4th at p. 33.) “[T]here is no … legislative history in the Elder Abuse Act  that would suggest an expansive reading of the phrase ‘based on professional  negligence.’ There is no suggestion in that history that the Legislature meant  by ‘based on professional negligence’ to refer to any action[,] [even for  recklessness,] ‘against health practitioners in their capacity as practitioners.’  On the contrary, … the legislative history suggests that nursing homes and  other health care providers were among the primary targets of the Elder Abuse  Act.” (Id. at p. 41 [internal quotation marks omitted].) “‘[N]eglect’ as  defined in former section 15610.57 … does not refer to the performance of medical  services in a manner inferior to the knowledge, skill and care ordinarily  possessed and employed by members of the profession in good standing, but  rather to the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and  comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional  standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.” (Id. at p. 34  [emphasis added; internal citation and quotation marks omitted].)     The Court therefore  finds that the purpose of section 15610.57 weighs against treating negligent  elder neglect by a medical institution as being ‘based on’ professional  negligence within the meaning of section 3333.2.   The nature of the MICRA provision at issue also weighs  against finding that the claim is based on professional negligence because  courts apply the MICRA cap narrowly. As discussed above, “[i]f section 3333.2  is in fact the most significant limitation created by MICRA, it is also one of  the most Draconian. When as a matter of legislative fiat the courts are  required to reduce awards of noneconomic damages to $250,000 without regard to  the result of a health care provider's negligence—notwithstanding brain damage,  paralysis, and other equally devastating injury—the scope of that fiat must be  limited to its terms.” (Perry v. Shaw, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th pp.  668–669.)   Both the purpose of 15610.57 and the nature of the nature of  the MICRA provision at issue weigh against an application of the MICRA cap to  elder neglect claims. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claim for elder  neglect is not based on professional negligence even though it arises out of  Defendant’s professional negligence.               The  Court therefore overrules Defendant’s objection to the proposed judgment. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT 72 TENTATIVE
RULING 


ANTONIO GALLEGOS, AN ELDER, BY AND
  THROUGH HIS GUARDIAN AD LITEM, ANABEL SIMPEH, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV11090
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8


   Defendant Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital
(“Defendant”) moves to strike the memorandum of costs filed by Plaintiff
Antonio Gallegos (“Plaintiff”), and alternatively moves to tax Plaintiff’s
costs. The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion IN PART and taxes the
following items:             Item #1: $83.15            Item
#8: $6,025.00            Item
#11: $4,137.75 Background This is a professional negligence and elder abuse case. Plaintiff was a patient at Defendant Emanate Health Queen of
the Valley Hospital, where he underwent a surgical hip operation. A few days
later, while in recovery at the hospital, Plaintiff suffered an unwitnessed
fall in the middle of the night. Plaintiff was later diagnosed with a
subarachnoid hemorrhage and a cervical fracture. Plaintiff remained
hospitalized for several months following the fall and received treatment for
his medical conditions and injuries. The jury returned its verdict on March 14, 2024, finding in
favor of Plaintiff on his Negligence claim. The jury also found in Plaintiff’s
favor on Plaintiff’s claim for Elder Abuse/Neglect, but found that Defendant’s
conduct that is the basis for the claim was not reckless, malicious,
fraudulent, or oppressive. The jury awarded Plaintiff $425,688.41 for economic
losses and $1,400,000.00 for noneconomic losses. Plaintiff filed a memorandum of costs on April 10, 2024. On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to tax costs.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply. Legal Standard “Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) (Emphasis added.)  A prevailing party is defined as “[1] the party with a net
monetary recovery, [2] a defendant in whose favor dismissal is entered, [3] a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and [4] a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a).) “[T]he trial court has no discretion to
deny prevailing party status to a litigant who falls within one of the four
statutory categories in the first [sentence] of the provision. As rewritten [in
1986], section 1032 now declares that costs are available as a ‘matter of
right’ when the prevailing party is within one of the four categories
designated by statute.” (Charton v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730,
738 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  “A prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a
memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of mailing of the¿notice of
entry of judgment…The memorandum of costs must be verified by a statement of
the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her knowledge the
items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the case.”¿(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1700.)  The losing party may contest the costs that a prevailing
party seeks. (CCP §1034(a).) The challenging party has the burden of
demonstrating that those costs are unreasonable or unnecessary. (Adams v.
Ford Motor Co.,¿(2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 1475, 1486; 612¿South LLC v.
Laconic Limited Partnership, (2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1270,
1285.)   Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5 sets forth the costs
recoverable by the prevailing party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5.) “Allowable
costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather
than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §1033.5(c)(2); Perko’s Enterprises, Inc. v. RRNS Enterprises (l992)
4 Cal.App.4th 238, 244.) A “properly verified memorandum of costs is
considered prima facie evidence that the costs listed in the memorandum were
necessarily incurred.” (Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 294, 308; see also Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d
677, 682.) The memorandum of costs need not contain invoices, billings, or
statements. (Bach, at p. 308.) (See also Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1700(a)(1) [only verification required].)   “Documentation must be submitted only when a party
dissatisfied with the costs claimed in the memorandum challenges them by filing
a motion to tax costs.”  (Bach v. County of Butte, supra, at p.
308.) This puts the burden on the party seeking to tax costs to show that
they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State
Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-74.) If items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs. (Ibid.) “Defendant's mere statements in
the points and authorities accompanying its notice of motion to strike cost
bill and the declaration of its counsel are insufficient to rebut the prima
facie showing.” (Rappenecker v. Sea-Land Service, Inc. (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 256, 266.)  Discussion Defendant states a general objection to Plaintiff’s
memorandum of costs. Such a general objection is not proper – Defendant must
object to items in the memorandum of costs.             Defendant
objects to the following items in the memorandum of costs: 1. Item #1 - Filing and Motion Fees for $3,151.05 of the total $3,905.65 as
set forth in Plaintiff's Memorandum of Costs section 1. Ex Parte Filing
Fees These items were incurred for ex parte hearings. Plaintiff
argues that the hearings were necessary to obtain discovery in this
priority-set case. Defendant argues that ex parte hearings were only necessary
because Plaintiffs’ counsels delayed in initiating discovery, and then filed
many of the ex parte motions while meet and confer efforts were ongoing. The Court does not find Defendants’ argument
persuasive.  The Court notes that it  granted most though not all of the ex parte
motions.  The Court strikes $83.15 in costs for the fifth ex parte
motion to compel production of the Incident Report, which was denied. The Court
denies Defendant’s objection to the remainder of this item.  Mediation Fee “The question whether mediation fees should be awarded as
costs in a particular matter must be determined based on the facts and circumstances
of the particular action.” (Berkeley Cement, Inc. v. Regents of University
of California (2019) 30 Cal.App.5th 1133, 1143.) “The absence of a court
order … is not an indication mediation is not reasonably necessary, at least
when the case did not qualify for court-ordered mediation.” (Id. at p.
1142.) “The court shall not order a case into mediation where the amount in
controversy exceeds fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1775.5.) “Like the related arbitration scheme, mediation is
fundamental to the conduct of litigation as it encourages the parties to settle
their disputes before trial and exposes parties who fail to agree to a
reasonable settlement proposal to the risk of a discretionary court
determination that they should pay their opponent's share of the failed
mediation.” (Gibson v. Bobroff (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1209.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff should not be able to claim
mediation costs because the mediation was voluntary and both parties agreed to split
the costs. As discussed above, the voluntary nature does not render the
mediation unnecessary for costs purposes in this action, particularly because
the Court could not compel mediation due to the amount in controversy. Similarly, the fact that the parties agreed to split the
mediation costs is not persuasive to the Court as a reason to strike them. A
party that believes it is in the right and will prevail at trial has less
incentive to agree to mediation if its share of the mediation costs will not be
recoverable upon a judgment in its favor, should the mediation fail to resolve
the case. The Court denies the motion as to the mediation costs. 2. Item #4 - Deposition Costs for $89,951.71 as set forth in
Plaintiffs Memorandum of Costs section 1.             Plaintiff
argues that the deposition transcript costs are necessary. The Court agrees.             Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s costs for video recordings of all of the depositions
claimed were unnecessary. Video recording costs are allowable under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 1033.5, subd. (a)(3)(A). Furthermore, a party may
claim the costs of presenting deposition videos at trial – implying that making
the underling recording is also reasonable. (Bender v. County of Los Angeles
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 998-990.)             The
Court overrules this objection. 3. Item #5 - Service of Process fees for $153.75 of the total $331.75 as
set forth in Plaintiff's Memorandum of Costs section 5.             Plaintiff
has provided the invoice for the service of a Richard Young, M.D., a
third-party witness. The Court finds these costs reasonable and declines to
strike them. 4. Item #8 - Witness Fees for $130,698.20 as set forth in Plaintiff's
Memorandum of Costs section 8. Plaintiff seeks to recover his expert witness fees pursuant
to a section 998 offer made on September 22, 2023. Defendant argues that the
offer was made too early in the case, before substantial fact discovery had
occurred. Defendant argues that it did not reject the 998 offer in bad faith
because it had not had a chance to evaluate Plaintiff’s case. Defendant identifies no authority supporting its position.
Code of Civil Procedure, section 998, subd. (d) does not require that a 998
offer be rejected in bad faith to trigger the recovery of expert witness fees.
It merely requires the defendant’s rejection and subsequent failure to obtain a
more favorable result. Furthermore, Defendant was served on June 29, 2023,
almost three months prior to the 998 offer – it had not just entered the case,
as Defendant contends. The Court overrules this objection, as well as Defendant’s
restatements of this objection with respect to each expert. Defendant objects that Plaintiff has failed to provide an
invoice demonstrating that he incurred the $3,000.00 he claims for the National
Biomechanics Institute. The Court sustains this objection. Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s $1,500.00 fee for an
EEG/ERP (TBI) test in addition to his neuropsychological testing because both
tests assessed the same injury. The Court disagrees. Redundant testing is
useful for reducing the risk of false results, which is of particular
importance when those results may be contested in litigation. Plaintiff has withdrawn the item of $900.00 for Lien
Resolution Services, Inc. Defendant states that it questions the authenticity of
Plaintiff’s invoice from Nancy Valla because Defendant does not believe that
Plaintiff waited until after his 998 offer to consult Valla. However, the
invoice facially shows that the costs were incurred after the 998 offer, and
Defendant offers nothing to contradict this other than a hunch. The Court
overrules the objection. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s retention of Alyssa
Watanabe, M.D. was cumulative because Plaintiff already had an adequate expert.
Similarly to redundant testing, there is a significant benefit to obtaining a
second opinion to ensure that the opinions a party obtains are correct. The
Court overrules this objection.  Defendant objects
that it is unclear which costs claimed for William Klein, M.D. are pre- and
post-998 offer because the line items are not dated. (Exhibit 40.) The Court
requests that Plaintiff provide evidence clarifying when the line items from
the December 20, 2023 invoice accrued. Absent clarification, the Court is
inclined to strike the $3,025 in costs in the invoice. In summary, the Court taxes $6,025.00 based on this item.
Plaintiff has separately withdrawn $900.00 in claimed costs from this item. 5. Item #11 - Court Reporter Fees as Established by Statute for $9,470.29
of the total $21,682.18 as set forth in Plaintiff's Memorandum of Costs section
11/12. “The costs for the services of the official court reporter
shall be recoverable as taxable costs by the prevailing party as otherwise
provided by law.” (Gov. Code, § 68086.) Defendant objects that the parties had agreed to split court
reporter fees and that those costs are therefore not available as a matter of
right. Defendant does not provide authority for this claim, or evidence that
the agreement provided that the costs would not be recoverable. The Court
overrules the objection. Defendant objects to the fee for the reporter for the ex
parte motion that was denied. The Court sustains the objection and taxes
$2,087.75. Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s request for the
cancellation fee for a court reporter for the FSC, where the parties failed to
coordinate and each brought their own reporter, with Plaintiff having to cancel
the use of his reporter as a result. This misunderstanding appears to be the
fault of the parties, and not a necessity. The Court taxes $1,050.00.  The Court taxes a total of $4,137.75 from this item. Plaintiff
has agreed to withdraw an additional $1,312.69 in court reporter costs. 6. Item #12 - Models, Blowups, and Photocopies of Exhibits for $743.85 as set
forth in Plaintiffs Memorandum of Costs section 12. Plaintiff has
withdrawn this item. 7. Item #13 - Interpreter Fees for $1053.40 as set forth in Plaintiff's
Memorandum of Costs section 13. Defendant has
withdrawn its objection. 8. Item #14 - Fees for Electronic Filing or Service for $83.15 of the total
$461.10 as set forth in Plaintiffs Memorandum of Costs section 14. Plaintiff does not
oppose the taxation of $83.15. 9. Item #16 - ''Other" Costs for $42,209.24 as set forth in Plaintiffs
Memorandum of Costs section 12. Plaintiff reduces this amount to $36,373.09 in his
opposition. The Court finds Plaintiff’s counsels’ lodging costs to be
reasonable.  Plaintiff withdraws the vast majority of his counsels’ meal
costs. The Court finds the remaining $55.08 to be reasonable. Plaintiff withdraws the vast majority of his counsels’
mileage costs. The Court finds the remaining $99.16 to be reasonable. 



























































































































































































































































































Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s technician support costs.
Courts generally treat tech support costs as recoverable, including for power
point presentations and video deposition presentations. (Bender v. County of
Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 998-990.) The Court strikes $138.78
for the interest charge for use of a credit card to pay the technician support
retainer. The Court finds the remaining tech support costs to be reasonable.