  Case Number:  22STCV09549    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WILSHIRE WEST MEDICAL TOWER, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KIAN KARIMI MD, INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV09549
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Wilshire West Medical tower,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) and Cross-Defendant Boulevard Investment Group (“Boulevard”)
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) move for judgment on the pleadings as to the
first four causes of action in the Cross-Complaint filed by Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Kian Marimi MD, Inc. (“KKM”) and Kian Karimi, M.D. (“Dr.
Karimi”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
The Court GRANTS the motion WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
first and fourth claims.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
second and third claims.
 
The Court DENIES any motion for judgment as to a claim for
negligent misrepresentation on the grounds that (1) any such motion is MOOT, as
the Cross-Complaint does not raise a claim for negligent misrepresentation, and
(2) Cross-Defendants do not properly notice the issue of negligent
misrepresentation.
 
Background
 
This case involves a commercial lease under which KKM agreed
to lease premises owned by Plaintiff for use as a medical facility. Boulevard
is Plaintiff’s property manager. Plaintiff alleged in its Complaint that KKM
breached the lease by abandoning the premises; the Court previously granted
summary judgment for Defendants on the Complaint on the basis that the Lease
had already been terminated.
 
On May 1, 2021, KKM entered a lease agreement (the “Lease”) with
Plaintiff to rent the premises located at 11645 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1100, Los
Angeles, CA 90025 (the “Property”). Dr. Karimi is a guarantor under the Lease.
 
The Lease provides that “[t]his Lease contains the entire
agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes any previous negotiations …. [t]his Lease may not be modified except
by a written document executed by the parties hereto.” (Lease, pp. 16-17,
Sections 37.17-37.18.)
 
Defendants intended to operate an ambulatory surgery center
at the Property where surgery could be performed on patients. (AMF 3.)
Construction work on the Property was necessary to attain this function.
(Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1; Karimi Decl., Exh. A (“Lease”) Exhibit C
(“Work Agreement”), Section 1.5.) The Lease included a Work Agreement (Lease,
Exh. C) which is incorporated into the Lease. (UMF 1; Lease, Section 7.1, Exh.
C.) Under the Work Agreement, Plaintiff was obligated to construct tenant
improvements to the Property at a cost of up to $299,355.00 (the “Tenant
Improvement Allowance”). (Work Agreement, Section 1.1.)
 
Before entering into the Lease, on around February 19, 2021,
Plaintiff provided Dr. Karimi with plans and a 2018 construction bid for a
prior prospective tenant of the Property, Murtaza Rizvi, M.D. (UMF 3.) The bid
for Dr. Rizvi’s planned improvements for the entire Property was $367,947. (UMF
3.)
 
The Work Agreement provided that Plaintiff’s interior
architect, the Borsuk Company (“Borsuk”) would submit a Preliminary Space Plan
(“PSP”) to KKM and Plaintiff for review. (Work Agreement, Sections 2.2, 2.4.) The
PSP was required to itemize the work to be done by each party, including a cost
excess of any work that Plaintiff would conduct in excess of the Tenant
Improvement Allowance. (Work Agreement, Section 2.3.) KKM was then obligated to
either approve the PSP and preliminary cost estimate or specify its objections
thereto within 10 days of its receipt of the PSP. (Work Agreement, Section
2.5.) Under the Work Agreement, if KKM rejected any part of the PSP, the
parties would have 10 days to attempt in good faith to modify the PSP to their
mutual satisfaction. (Work Agreement, Section 2.6) If the PSP could not be
modified to Plaintiff and KKM’s mutual satisfaction, “the Lease [would]
terminate and neither party [would] thereafter be obligated to the other party
for any reason whatsoever having to do with [the] Lease.” (Work Agreement,
Section 2.6.)
 
The construction was planned to be carried out in two
phases, Phase 1 and Phase 2. Plaintiff submitted a declaration stating that
during the summer of 2021, Dr. Karimi requested that the scope of the PSP be
limited to only Phase 1 so that Defendants could occupy the Property more
quickly and begin treating patients sooner.
 
On December 8, 2021, Plaintiff provided Defendants with (1)
Mancilla Construction Contract No. 3045-B for Tenant Improvement (the “Mancilla
Bid”); (2) Mancilla’s Bid Addendum #1 for Phase 1 (“Addendum #1”); and (3)
Boruk’s plan drawings for Phase 1 (the “Borsuk Drawings”) (collectively, the
“December 8 Documents”). The Mancilla Bid estimated a total price of
$585,207.05. The Mancilla Bid contained a clause stating as follows: “NOTICE OF
CANCELLATION: CONTRACT CANCELABLE FOR 72 HOURS FOLLOWING DATE OF ACCEPTANCE BY
CONTRACT BUYER[.]” Plaintiff contends that the December 8 Documents constituted
a PSP under the Lease; Defendants contend that they do not.
 
On December 8, 2021, Dr. Karimi initialed each page of the
Mancilla Bid and signed the last page. Defendants contend that Dr. Karimi
initially mistakenly believed that the Mancilla Bid, for $585,207.05, was for
the entire project, but later realized that it was for Phase 1 only. On
December 10, 2021, Dr. Karimi sent an email to Edward Hudson and Cody Powers,
individuals associated with Plaintiff, stating that due to the unexpectedly
high cost, he “decided not to approve the bids for the buildout of [the Property]”
and stating that “the bids and the plans are not approved.” On December 11,
2021, Dr. Karimi sent another email to Martha Garcia, Plaintiff’s manager of
the property, with copies to Powers and Borsuk, stating his intent pause
everything and for Gracia to disregard the signed bids and plans that Karimi
had sent.
 
On February 1, 2022, Defendants sent Plaintiff a formal
“Rejection, Cancellation and Notice of Termination,” stating Defendants’
position that the Lease had been terminated. 
 
Plaintiff never moved into the premises and never paid rent
on the Lease.
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff learned that Defendants had
advertised the Property on www.costar.com, seeking a subtenant and proposing a
ten-year sublease. 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Defendants on March
18, 2022, stating claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) abandoning the
premises; and (3) breach of guarantee agreement.
 
Defendants moved for summary judgment as to the Complaint on
August 31, 2023. 
 
On November 7, 2023, Defendants filed the Cross-Complaint,
raising claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3) intentional
misrepresentation; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and (5) declaratory relief.
 
On December 28, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment as to the Complaint.
 
Trial in this matter was originally set for September 25,
2023, and was moved continued to June 3, 2024. On May 2, 2024, the Court
continued trial again to December 9, 2024, but ordered that all deadlines
remain based on the original trial dates.
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff moved for judgment on the
pleadings as to the first four claims in the Cross-Complaint.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice
but notes that it is not necessary because all of the documents in question are
already in the court record.
 
Legal Standard
 
Either prior to trial, but after the time to answer or demur
has passed, or at the trial, the plaintiff or the defendant may move for
judgment on the pleadings and that the appropriate ground for such a motion is
the same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to state a
cause of action or defense. (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d
787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583,
586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made at any
time, even during trial, since the grounds for a general demurrer are never
waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).)   
 
Discussion
 
Timeliness
 
“No motion may be made [for judgment on the pleadings] if a
pretrial conference order has been entered pursuant to Section 575, or within
30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is later,
unless the court otherwise permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).) 
 
On May 2, 2024, the Court continued trial from June 3, 2024 to
December 9, 2024, but ordered that all deadlines remain based on the original
trial dates. Plaintiff filed its motion on April 25, 2024.
 
A pretrial conference order has not been entered yet.
Further, Plaintiff filed the motion more than 30 days before June 3, 2024. For
both of these reasons, the motion is timely.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendants argue that Cross-Defendants failed to meet and
confer before filing the motion. 
 
“A determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion for
judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Breach of Contract – First Cause of Action
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a
plaintiff  must be able to establish “(1)
the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Cross-Defendants argue that under the terms of the Lease as
alleged, they did not breach the Lease.
 
The Cross-Complaint specifically references the Lease as
being attached to the Complaint as Exhibit A. 
(Cross-Complaint at p.5:7-8.) Under the Lease, Plaintiff may not be
deemed to be in default unless it is provided written notice of any failure to
perform and given 30 days to cure. (Lease § 20.1.)
 
The Cross-Complaint states that Dr. Karimi gave Plaintiff
notice of the default on December 10, 2021. (Cross Complaint at p. 8:18-20.)
However, the Cross-Complaint also states that “[o]n December 10, 2021 … Dr.
Karimi immediately notified [Plaintiff] in writing that Karimi … was exercising
its rights under paragraph 2.5 of Exhibit C to the Lease to terminate the Lease
and Guaranty.” (Cross-Complaint at pp. 7:26-8:3.) 
 
If the PSP could not be modified to Plaintiff and KKM’s
mutual satisfaction, “the Lease [would] terminate and neither party [would]
thereafter be obligated to the other party for any reason whatsoever having to
do with [the] Lease.” (Work Agreement, Section 2.6.)
 
Thus, Defendants have pled themselves out of the breach of
contract claim. Because they plead that the Lease was terminated on December
10, 2021, the unavoidable inference that follows is that Plaintiff had no
further obligation under the lease – including no obligation to cure default.
 
Furthermore, even if Defendants had not pled termination of
the lease, the Court would (and does) still find that the lease was terminated
on December 10, 2021 on the basis of judicial estoppel.
 
Judicial
estoppel applies “when:
(1) the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions were taken in
judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the party was
successful in asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the
position or accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally
inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not taken as a result of
ignorance, fraud, or mistake.” (State Water Resources Control Bd. Cases
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 826–827.)
 
“Because of its harsh consequences, the [judicial estoppel] doctrine should be applied with caution and
limited to egregious circumstances.” (Blix Street Records, Inc. v. Cassidy
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 39, 47; see also Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship
(2013) 214 Cal. App. 4th 437, 449 [“because judicial estoppel is an extraordinary and equitable remedy that can impinge on
the truth-seeking function of the court and produce harsh consequences, it must
be ‘applied with caution and limited to egregious circumstances’….”].)
 
In their summary judgment motion, Defendants argued that
they were not liable for abandonment of the Property because the Lease was
terminated on either December 10 or December 11, 2021. The Court accepted this
position and found that the Lease had been terminated by December 11, 2021 at
the latest. Defendants are therefore estopped from taking the position that the
lease was not terminated for the purposes of this motion.
 
Because Plaintiff had no obligation to cure any default due
to termination of the Lease, the Court grants the motion without leave to amend
as to this claim.
 
Negligence – Second Cause of Action
 
In order to state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
            The
Cross-Complaint alleges no facts showing the existence of a duty, explaining
the type of breach that occurred, or describing how Defendants suffered damages
as a result. It only contains bare assertions that Cross-Defendants owed
Defendants a duty of reasonable care, that Cross-Defendants negligently
breached the duty, and that Defendants suffered damages as a result. Defendants
need not plead evidentiary facts, but must still plead ultimate facts showing
entitlement to relief.
 
            Insofar
as Defendants intended this to be a claim for negligent misrepresentation, it
is inadequate because the facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
            The
Court grants the motion with leave to amend with respect to this claim.
 
Negligent Misrepresentation - Unpleaded
 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates,
Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California courts
have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty
to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation
arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in physical
harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information is
conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)

 
Defendants do not raise a claim for negligent
misrepresentation in the Cross-Complaint, nor does Plaintiff more for judgment
on the pleadings on any such claim. Nevertheless, Defendants dedicate a section
of their opposition to arguing why they have pled a claim for negligent
misrepresentation, and Plaintiff argues the issue in its reply.
 
Insofar as there is a motion for judgment on the pleadings
as to negligent misrepresentation, the Court denies it on the grounds that (1)
the issue is not properly included in the notice, and (2) any such motion would
be moot because Defendants did not raise a claim for negligent
misrepresentation.
 
Intentional Misrepresentation – Third Cause of Action
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Defendants have specifically pleaded the who made the
representations in question, when and where they were made, and to whom the
representations were made. (Cross Complaint pp. 3:3-4:14.) However, the
representations themselves – that the Property was suitable for a surgery
center and that the necessary upgrades would fall within a certain price range
– are not adequately pleaded
 
First, the representation that the Property was suitable for
the kind of surgery center Karimi wanted to build is not specific enough.
Defendants must plead the specific representations about the state of the
property – e.g. its size, amenities, etc. – that were untrue. ‘Suitability’ for
a surgery center could refer to any number of things, and does not give
Cross-Defendants adequate notice of the representations at issue. Although
Defendants allege specific defects which existed – leaking water tanks
and HVAC filtering and backup generator problems – Defendants do not allege
that Cross-Defendants made representations about either of these facts.
 
Second, cost projections generally cannot form a basis for a
fraud claim. Statements of opinion and future projections generally cannot
constitute fraud. (Pacesetter Homes, Inc. v. Brodkin (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d
206, 211.)
 
The Court grants the motion with leave to amend with respect
to this claim.
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Fourth Cause of Action
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship,
breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)

 
“In general, a seller of real property has a duty to
disclose … facts materially affecting the value or desirability of the
property which are known or accessible only to him and also knows that such
facts are not known to, or within the reach of the diligent attention and
observation of the buyer[.]” (Reed v. King (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 261,
265 [emphasis in original; quotation marks and citation omitted].) However,
this is not the same as a fiduciary relationship.
 
“[N]o fiduciary relationship is established merely because
the parties reposed trust and confidence in each other.” (Girard v. Delta
Towers Joint Venture (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1741, 1749 [quotation marks and
citation omitted; cleaned up].) “California courts have not extended the
‘special relationship’ doctrine to include ordinary commercial contractual
relationships[.]” (Martin v. U-Haul Co. of Fresno (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d
396, 412.) A fiduciary relationship does not arise from “a garden variety
landlord-tenant relationship in a commercial setting.” (Girard, 20
Cal.App.4th at p. 1749.)


Thus, according to the allegations in the Cross-Complaint, there
was not a fiduciary relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants.
 
Defendants argue that Cross-Defendants took on the role of
Defendants’ real estate agent. Defendants argue that Cross-Defendants deceived
Defendants out of using a broker. “Powers and Hudson told Dr. Karimi that he
would ‘not get as good of a deal’ in the Lease if Dr. Karimi involved a
commercial real estate broker in the Lease transaction, and emailed Karimi that
‘these terms are presented only to you with no broker representation.’”
(Cross-Complaint at p. 4:11-14.) First, Defendants do not actually allege that
Cross-Defendants acted as Defendants’ broker or agent. Second, the allegation
that Karimi was specifically informed that he did not have a broker undercuts
any argument that the parties mutually agreed to form a principal-agent
relationship.
 
The Court grants the motion without leave to amend with
respect to this claim.