 Case Number:  24STCV02843    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MAX OSWALDO JOVEL GARCIA, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
JENNIFER ANN MIRATA ALDRIDGE, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV02843
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 21, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendants Jennifer Ann Mirata Aldridge, Lonnie Aldridge,
and Nicholas Aldridge (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order
transferring this action for all purposes from the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles to Superior Court of California, County of
Kern.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion. The Court ORDERS to be
TRANSFERRED FOR ALL PURPOSES to the Superior Court of California, County of
Kern. Plaintiffs shall pay all transfer costs.
 
Background
 
This is a personal injury action. On February 3, 2024,
Defendants’ vehicle allegedly struck Plaintiffs’ vehicle, resulting in injuries
(the “Collision”).
 
Plaintiff filed this action on February 2, 2024, raising one
claim for negligence.
 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court may change the place of trial when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 397,
subd. (a).)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the
power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this
title, the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them
reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of
the action. If the action is for injury to person or personal property or for
death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior court in either the county
where the injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs or the county where
the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of the action, is a
proper court for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)
 
“If [a] transfer is sought solely, or is ordered, because
the action or proceeding was
 commenced in a court other than that
designated as proper by this title, those costs and fees, including any
expenses and attorney’s fees awarded to the defendant pursuant to Section 396b,
shall be paid by the plaintiff before the transfer is made.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 399, subd. (a).)
 
Discussion
 
The Complaint alleges that the Collision occurred in Los
Angeles County. Defendants provide evidence that the Collision actually
occurred in Kern County, in the city of Bakersfield. (Jennifer Ann Mirata
Aldridge Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
Each defendant lives in Kern County. (Jennifer Ann Mirata
Aldridge Decl. ¶ 2; Lonnie Aldridge Decl. ¶ 2; Nicholas Aldridge Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
On April 1, 2024, Plaintiffs and Defendants agreed to
stipulate to a transfer of venue to Kern County. (Eisaeian Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
On April 15, 2024, the Court held a hearing and stated that
a stipulation would be insufficient, and that a motion would be necessary.
 
Defendants have provided evidence that venue is proper in
Kern County.
 
Because Plaintiff filed this action in the wrong court,
Plaintiffs must pay transfer fees.