 Case Number:  23STCV05318    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 14, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Angelique Nevarez v. Dohn Mehrabi, M.D.,
A Professional Corporation, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV05318            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Don Mehrabi, M.D., APC, and Donny Mehrabi,
an individual.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff
Angelique Nevarez
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a PAGA action that was filed on March 9, 2023. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants required their employees to work outside their stated hours
without pay, denied the employees meal and rest breaks, and did not reimburse
the employees for business expenses. 
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
jointly move for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s sole cause of action under the
Private Attorney’s General Act. The Complaint pleads a single cause of action
premised on (1) failure to pay minimum wage for all work performed; (2) failure
to pay overtime wages; (3) failure to provide uninterrupted meal and rest
periods; (4) failure to provide accurate wage statements and maintain accurate
payroll records; (5) failure to provide all wages at separation; (6) failure to
reimburse business expenses; and (7) waiting time penalties. As these theories
are pled under a single cause of action, Defendants’ motion will fail if a
triable issue of fact arises as to any theory.
 
Although Defendants’ moving papers
recite the facts which are claimed to be material on this motion and address
each theory under which Plaintiff’s claims are brought, Defendants do not apply
those facts, with relevant citations, to their arguments as to each theory. Instead,
Defendants offer a bare recitation of the facts, then a recitation of the law
governing each theory, before asserting that the facts and evidence show, without
citations to those facts and evidentiary materials, that Plaintiff’s claims
lack merit. Although it appears from a review of the
record that evidence may exist which tends to defeat some or all of Plaintiff’s
theories, Defendants’ moving papers do not properly marshal that evidence to
demonstrate that Plaintiff cannot prevail on her PAGA claim. “Courts are
entitled to assistance from counsel, and an invitation to search without
guidance is no more useful than a litigant's request to a district court at the
summary judgment stage to paw through the assembled discovery material. ‘Judges
are not like pigs, hunting for truffles buried in’ the record.
[Citation]." (Albrechtsen v. Bd. of Regents of Univ. of Wisconsin Sys. (2002)
309 F.3d 433, 436.)
 
Defendants
have not carried their burden to demonstrate that Plaintiffs’ claims lack merit
because they have not properly applied the putative material facts and evidence
to each theory asserted in the Complaint. Defendants are therefore not entitled
to summary judgment on the papers presented with this motion. This ruling is
without prejudice to a future motion for summary judgment which complies with
all procedural and statutory requirements. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 14,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 