  Case Number:  19STCV42136    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   September
19, 2023                                        
 
CASE NAME:           RM Glass, Inc. v. Bede USA, Inc., doing
business as Bede Windows & Doors, a California Corporation, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                19STCV42136            

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Bede USA, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff RM Glass, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
order granting summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On November 22, 2019, Plaintiff RM Glass, Inc.,
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Bede USA, Inc., dba Bede
Windows & Doors, LA Plaza Village, LLC, Benchmark Contractors, Inc., Hudson
Insurance Company, Suretec Indemnity Company, Business Alliance Insurance
Company, Ronald John Tesmer (“Defendants.”) The complaint alleged 11 causes of
action based on breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges that Bede submitted a
Benchmark Purchase Order for windows and sliding glass doors. Bede then invited
Plaintiff to submit a bid; Bede and Plaintiff then entered a subcontract.
Plaintiff alleges that it discovered Bede had misrepresented the prevailing
wage rate. The final invoice was significantly more than the original contract
price due to additional hours for assembling, fabricating and glazing the
windows. Defendant delayed payment. 
 
On February 7, 2020, Defendants Bede USA, Inc., dba Bede
Windows & Doors, LA Plaza Village, LLC, Benchmark Contractors, Inc.,
Business Alliance Insurance Company, Ronald John Tesmer filed an Answer. 
 
On February 7, 2020, Defendant Bede USA, Inc., dba Bede
Windows & Doors filed a Cross-Complaint. 
 
On February 19, 2020, Defendant Hudson Insurance Company
filed an Answer. 
 
On March 27, 2020, Cross-Defendant RM Glass, Inc., filed an
Answer. 
 
Plaintiff’s first Amended Complaint was filed on June 29,
2020. 
 
On May 16, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication. Plaintiff’s Opposition was
filed on July 24, 2023. Defendant’s Reply was filed on August 2, 2023. 
 
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s attorney filed a Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the defendant or cross-defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
            Defendant Bede
USA, Inc., moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication
on two grounds. First, the alleged breach of contract fails because Plaintiff
did not obtain proper written documentation. Second, Plaintiff was not a duly
licensed contractor during the time of construction.
 
1.     
Proper
Documentation: 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
claim for extra work because it was not accompanied by a written quote, Ron
Tesmer did not provide authority to enter into any agreement, and Plaintiff did
not properly document the extra hours. Defendant cites to Civil Code § 1698,
arguing that a written agreement “must as a general matter be modified in
writing.” (Motion 4: 12-17.) Plaintiff argues that the evidence indicates that
there was ample documentation for the extra work and a triable issue of
material fact exists. First, oral agreements concerning changes are acceptable
with construction projects. Second, there was no express authorization required
for change orders. Additionally, there are invoices that document the progress
payments submitted by Plaintiff. Lastly, verified discovery responses support
Plaintiff’s extra work. 
 
            The Court
finds that Defendant has failed to establish that no triable issue of fact
exists. First, Defendant misconstrues Civil Code 1698. While Defendant argues
that a contract writing must be modified
in writing as well, the exact language of the statute is “a contract in writing
may be modified.” Nowhere in the
statute is there a requirement that written contract must be modified in
writing. Second, the evidence, Exhibit E, the Forms Submittal, does not state
that a written contract must be modified in writing. Separate Statement number
28 states that RM “promised that if any changes were made…RM would submit those
changes by way of written amendment,” citing to the Forms Submittal pg. A.3-2
as well as the Subcontract agreement. However, when reviewing these forms,
there is no such promise or requirement. While the Reply states that Contract
states the following, “The specific price, including
all changes in price, will be determined per a given written quote from RM Glass and
will be honored by RM Glass once they are aware of the specific projects
acceptance by Bede,” an examination of the attached document reveals that no
such requirements are included. To be sure, the Contract does not contain the
word “written” or the phrase “including all charges in price.” Additionally, in
Exhibit B of the Dawson Declaration, which contains the deposition of Rafael
Morales, the questioning attorney asks, “And it says, "The specific price
for each project will be determined per a given quote from RM Glass to Bede and
will be honored by RM Glass once they are aware of the specific project's
acceptance by Bede." (Dec. Dawson, Ex. B, p. 93:3-7.) When reading this
portion of the deposition, the Court can glean that the attorney was having Mr.
Morales review the Subcontract Agreement that is subject to this dispute and
attached as Exhibit A of the Dawson Declaration. Thus, Defendant’s claim that
the agreement contains the word “written” is argument, at best and, at worst, inaccurate
and misleading. Clearly, it is not an undisputed fact.[1]
 
            Therefore,
based on the fact that Civil Code § 1698 has no requirement that a written
contract must be modified in writing, and the specific contract here contained
no such mandate either, the Court finds that a disputed material fact exists as
to whether there as a requirement for specific documentation to make changes. 
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED, as to the proper documentation. 
 
2.     
Licensed
Contractor 
Defendant argues that every cause
of action fails because under California Business and Professions Code §
7031(a), a person must be a licensed contractor during the performance of a
contract. Specifically, Plaintiff’s general contractor’s license was suspended
on April 23, 2019, and not renewed until June 1, 2019. However, during that
time, Plaintiff continued to perform work. (UMF 48-52.) In response, Plaintiff
argues that a disputed material fact exists as to whether it was fully licensed
and that the Substantial Compliance Doctrine exception applies. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that a clerical error in submitting the Certificate of
Insurance by RM Glass’ payroll company occurred and thus RM Glass was fully
insured. (PUMF 53-59, 61-64.) 
 
California Business and Professions Code § 7031(a) states 
 
Except as provided in subdivision
(e), no person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a
contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law or equity in
any action, in any court of this state for the collection of compensation for
the performance of any act or contract where a license is required by this
chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed contractor at all times
during the performance of that act or contract regardless of the merits of the
cause of action brought by the person, except that this prohibition shall not
apply to contractors who are each individually licensed under this chapter but
who fail to comply with Section 7029.
 
Subsection (e) provides an
exception, known as the substantial compliance exception. It states: 
 
the court may determine that there
has been substantial compliance with licensure requirements under this section
if it is shown at an evidentiary hearing that the person who engaged in the
business or acted in the capacity of a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as
a contractor in this state prior to the performance of the act or contract, (2)
acted reasonably and in good faith to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted
promptly and in good faith to remedy the failure to comply with the licensure
requirements upon learning of the failure.
 
Here, the Court finds that a
reasonable trier of fact could find that a disputed material of fact exists as
to whether Plaintiff was a duly licensed contractor. Specifically, a reasonable
juror could find that the Substantial Compliance Exception applies. Here, the
Declaration of Lisa Morales indicates that Plaintiff continuously maintained
worker’s compensation insurance int eh relevant time period in 2019. (PUMF 57; Dec.
Morales ¶5.) However, a newly hired payroll company, DecisionHR failed to
timely provide proof of insurance to the Contractor’s State Licensing Board (CSLB).
(PUMF 61-64; Dec. Morales ¶10.) On May 22, 2019, 11 days after receiving
notification from the CSLB that proof of insurance had not been filed,
Plaintiff requested DecisionHr to provide proof of the still valid insurance. (PUMF
63; Dec. Morales ¶12.) DecisionHR failed to provide proper documentation so
Plaintiff requested a second time to submit the proof of insurance to CSLB on or
about July 1, 2019. (PUMF 64; Dec. Morales ¶12.)  This is sufficient evidence to create a
disputed issue of material fact on whether the substantial compliance exception
has been met.[2]

 
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED
on this ground. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court decides the pending motion as follows:
 
            Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             September
19, 2023                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 


