  Case Number:  23CHCP00253    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/6/23
Case #23CHCP00253
 
PETITION TO
OPEN SUPERIOR COURT FILE
 
Petition filed on 6/13/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner United Financial Casualty
Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent Colin Boatman
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order opening a Superior
Court file, secure a case number and thereby bring this matter under the
jurisdiction of the Court. 
 
RULING: 
 
On 6/13/23, Petitioner United Financial Casualty Company
(Petitioner) filed this “Petition to Open Superior Court File For The Purpose
of Establishing Superior Court Jurisdiction Over Underinsured Motorist
Arbitration” against Respondent Colin Boatman (Respondent).  The petition indicates that the action is
proceeding by way of arbitration pursuant to the underinsured motorist
provisions of Plumbing Solutions Inc.’s insurance policy maintained with
Petitioner.  The petition further
indicates that this Court has the power to resolve matters relative to cases
pending in such arbitration pursuant to Insurance Code 11580.2(f).    
 
Attached to the petition is a proof of service indicating
that the petition was served on attorney Niko Paris of Law Offices of Niko Paris
by email/electronic transmission on 6/13/23 as attorney for Respondent.  On 8/28/23, Petitioner filed a Notice of
Hearing on the Petition giving notice of the hearing set for 10/6/23.  This notice was also served on attorney Niko
Paris by email/electronic service as attorney for Respondent.  However, Respondent has not appeared in this
action and there is no evidence before the Court that attorney Niko Paris
represents Respondent such that Respondent had proper notice of this
hearing.  
 
If Respondent and/or attorney Paris appear at the hearing,
acknowledge attorney Paris’  representation of Respondent and concede
receipt of the petition, the petition will be granted.  In such case, attorney Paris shall provide
the Court with his address, telephone number and email address to be entered as
the address of record for Respondent in eCourt. 
If not, the hearing will be continued to allow Petitioner to either
personally serve Respondent with the petition or explain why such personal
service is not required (i.e., provide evidence that attorney Paris represents
Respondent and evidence of attorney Paris’ contact information).  