  Case Number:  21STCV27298    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 KEVIN GAMEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GLENN E. THOMAS COMPANY, INC.,
DBA GLENN E. THOMAS DODGE
CHRYSLER JEEP; and DOES 1-50, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV27298
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO LIFT STAY
 
Date: May 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff,
Kevin Gamez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Glenn E. Thomas Company, Inc.
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
BACKGROUND 
This
action arises out of an employment relationship. Plaintiff’s complaint (the
“Complaint”) asserts a representative claim for violations of the Labor Code
pursuant to the Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”).           
 
On
July 29, 2022, Moving Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration on the
grounds that during Plaintiff’s employment, he signed a binding arbitration agreement
that required the adjudication of his individual claims. The Court denied the
motion holding that the parties did not agree to arbitrate the PAGA claims (the
“Arbitration Order”).  On October 26,
2022, Defendant filed a Notice of Appeal from the Arbitration Order, and this case
has been stayed pursuant to that appeal, which remains pending as of the date
of this hearing.
 
On
April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Lift Stay (the “Motion”).
Defendant filed an opposition to the Motion on April 26, 2024 and Plaintiff
filed a reply on May 2, 2024.
 
REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff has filed a Request for
Judicial Notice (“RJN”) as to five (5) orders in other cases: four issued by
judges of the Alameda County Superior Court and one issued by a judge in the
Santa Clara County Superior Court.  Defendant
has opposed the granting of Plaintiff’s RJN. 
While the Court takes judicial notice of these orders pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d), these orders have no precedential value for this
Court.  
 
            Defendant has filed an RJN as to two
documents from the file in this case.  It
is unnecessary to request judicial notice of matters within this Court’s own
file in the instant case.
 
DISCUSSION
Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1294, subdivision (a) provides that an
aggrieved party may appeal from:¿ 
(a)   An order
dismissing or denying a petition to compel arbitration. Notwithstanding Section
916, the perfecting of such an appeal shall not automatically stay any
proceedings in the trial court during the pendency of the appeal.¿ 
 
            CCP section 916 provides that: 
(a)
Except as provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section
116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon
the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or
affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial
court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected
by the judgment or order.
(b)
When there is a stay of proceedings other than the enforcement of the judgment,
the trial court shall have jurisdiction of proceedings related to the
enforcement of the judgment as well as any other matter embraced in the action
and not affected by the judgment or order appealed from.
 
            Plaintiff seeks an order from this
Court lifting the stay on this case resulting from Defendant’s appeal of the
Arbitration Order on the grounds that: (1) recent changes to CCP section
1294(a) grant the Court discretion to lift the stay while the appeal is
perfected; (2) lifting the stay would not prejudice Defendant; and (3) Plaintiff,
the aggrieved employees and the State of California continue to endure ongoing
prejudice while the stay is imposed.
 
            Plaintiff contends that Senate Bill
365 amends CCP section 1294 to allow for the proceedings to continue while an
appeal is perfected. Plaintiff argues that based on the legislative history of
the amendment, the purpose of SB 365 was to prevent corporate defendants from
abusing the automatic stay when appealing a denied motion to compel
arbitration.  
 
            In opposition, Defendant asserts
that pursuant to CCP 1281.4, an appellate stay must not be lifted while there
are overlapping issues between individual PAGA claims and the representative PAGA
claim. Defendant further argues that the latest enactment of SB 365 should not
be given retroactive application. 
 
In
fact, CCP section 1281.4 does not apply here because that statute only applies
when a motion to compel arbitration has been granted, not when it has been
denied.  When a motion to compel
arbitration has been denied, such as in the instant case, CCP section 1294
applies. 
 
The
Court agrees that SB 365 does grant trial courts discretion in implementing a
stay; however, without a clear expression of intent by the legislature, the
Court cannot retroactively apply the current enactment of CCP  1294(a). (Myers v. Philip Morris Companies,
Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 828, 840–841.)  In McClung v. Employment Development Dept.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 467, the California Supreme Court held that absent express
legislative intent, laws are applied prospectively only. (Id. 34 Cal.4th at 476.)

 
Plaintiff
does not provide any legislative history that shows that the legislature expressly
intended for SB 365 to be retroactively applied.  Therefore, the Court declines to apply SB 365
retroactively.  Moreover, even if it had
the authority to exercise its discretion to lift the stay pending perfection of
the appeal from the Arbitration Order, which it does not, the Court would not
exercise its discretion to do so.
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motion.
 


 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



