 Case Number:  22STCV33012    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BO ZHANG, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DVIR COHEN; YAFIT COHEN; CLEAR RECON
  CORP; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV33012
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANTS DVIR COHEN AND YAFIT COHEN’S MOTION
  FOR ORDER TO DISSOLVE OR MODIFY THE NOVEMBER 8, 2022 PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date: May 9, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Dvir Cohen and Yafit Cohen (the “Cohen Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition papers were filed.
 
BACKGROUND
             On October 7, 2022, Plaintiff Bo Zhang
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Complaint against the Cohen Defendants; Clear
Recon Corp (collectively, “Defendants”); and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, for:
(1) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; and (2) Violation of the Business and
Professions Code section 17200. 
            On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an Ex Parte Application and Notice for Temporary Restraining Order regarding
eviction. On October 18, 2022, the Court granted the ex parte application
as to the eviction only because Plaintiff failed to give notice that he also
sought to enjoin transfer of the subject Property (the “Lemon Property”). 
 
            On October 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an Ex Parte Application for Temporary Restraining Order Enjoining the Transfer
of Title. On October 20, 2022, the Court granted the ex parte
application. 
 
            On November 8, 2022, an Order to
Show Cause hearing re Preliminary Injunction was held and the Court granted a
preliminary injunction to enjoin possession and transfer or sale of the Lemon
Property until the end of the litigation (the “Injunction Order”).  The Injunction Order was based in part on
California Civil Code Section 2924m (“Section 2924m”), relating to the
rights of “eligible tenant buyers” to purchase a property out of a foreclosure
sale. 
 
            On July 14, 2023, the Cohen Defendants
filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff, Eva Yu Neumann,
Jianying Wu, United Premier Development, LLC, and Yukee Architectural Design
Corp. for: (1) Fraud and (2) Negligent Misrepresentation. 
 
            On March 25, 2024, Cohen Defendants
filed the instant Motion for Order Dissolving the Injunction Order (the
“Motion”).   No opposition was
filed to the Motion.  Opposition
was due on May 2, 2024. 
 


 
DISCUSSION
            Trial courts are
authorized to issue injunctions during the litigation pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 526. “The function of a preliminary injunction is the
preservation of the status quo until a final determination of the merits.” (Beehan
v. Lido Isle Community Assn. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858, 866.) 
 
            A
trial court deciding whether to issue an injunction weighs two interrelated
factors—the likelihood the moving party will prevail on the merits at trial and
the relative balance of interim harms likely to result from the granting or
denial of preliminary injunctive relief. (White v. Davis (2003) 30
Cal.4th 528, 554; Cohen v. Board of Supervisors (1985) 40 Cal.3d 277,
286.)  
 
“An evaluation of the relative harm to the parties
upon the granting or denial of a preliminary injunction requires consideration
of: (1) the inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of irreparable
injury the denial of the injunction will cause; (3) the necessity to preserve
the status quo; [and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the public interest
or interests of third parties the granting of the injunction will cause.” (Vo
v. City of Garden Grove (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.)  “‘[T]he more likely it is that plaintiffs
will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they allege will
occur if the injunction does not issue .... [I]t is the mix of these factors
that guides the trial court in its exercise of discretion.”’ (Right Site
Coalition v. L.A. Unified School Dist. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 336,
342.)  
 
“A superior court should modify or vacate an
injunction upon motion by the enjoined party if it finds a change in the facts
or law or the ends of justice would be served by modifying or revoking the
injunction.” (New Tech Developments v. Bank of Nova Scotia (1987) 191
Cal.App.3d 1065, 1072 [italics in original]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 533 [“In
any action, the court may on notice modify or dissolve an injunction or
temporary restraining order upon a showing that there has been a material
change in the facts upon which the injunction or temporary restraining order
was granted, that the law upon which the injunction or temporary restraining
order was granted has changed, or that the ends of justice would be served by
the modification or dissolution of the injunction or temporary restraining
order”].)
 
Here, the Cohen Defendants move for an order either to dissolve
or to modify the November 8, 2022 preliminary injunction (the “Injunction”) issued
pursuant to the Injunction Order. The Motion is brought on the grounds that:
(1) Section 2924m does not apply to the facts and circumstances related to this
action; and (2) there has been a material change of facts warranting
modification of the Injunction Order. 
 
Specifically,
the Cohen Defendants argue that Section 2924m does not apply to this case
because their actions, which they term “flipping” of property, are not the type
of activities which the legislature intended to prohibit under Section 2924m.  The Cohen Defendants assert that Section
2924m was intended to prevent urban blight caused by bulk purchasers at foreclosure
sales.  To the contrary, the Cohen Defenders
contend, “flippers” such as themselves purchase foreclosed properties with the
intent of fixing them up and selling them for a profit, to the benefit of the
surrounding neighborhood. As such, the Cohen Defendants contend there is no
incentive for a “flipper” to manipulate the Civil Code provisions and cause
urban blight by making bulk purchases at foreclosures sales, as this would cause
the “flipper” to lose money. 
 
Furthermore,
Cohen Defendants assert Plaintiff failed to submit evidence demonstrating the
existence of his tenancy within 15 days after the foreclosure sale and the
legislation does not suggest a deficient affidavit claiming that an affiant is
an “eligible tenant buyer” can be cured more than 15 days after the foreclosure
sale took place in order to obtain statutory standing. According to the Cohen Defendants,
the Trustee of the Lemon Property deemed the foreclosure sale final and
provided Yafit Cohen (“Ms. Cohen”) a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale. The Cohen
Defendants assert that Ms. Cohen recorded the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale and is
entitled to the full protection of both her legal and beneficial rights of
property ownership. The Cohen Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s reliance on
what the Trustee said about the Cohen Defendants did not relieve him of his
statutory duty to comply with Section 2924m. Additionally, the Cohen Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s lack of statutory standing is a jurisdictional defect
and is not waived by a failure to object, since it may be raised at any time in
the proceedings, including appeal. 
 
Alternatively,
the Cohen Defendants argue that once the Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was recorded,
any claims by Plaintiff that he detrimentally relied upon Ms. Cohen’s Affidavit
are moot. Similarly, the Cohen Defendants contend that any damages claimed by
Plaintiff are strictly limited to the monetary claims set forth in his verified
complaint because a party seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an
adequate remedy when the remedy at law will adequately compensate the injured
party. The Cohen Defendants also contend that the assertion that they are not
harmed by granting the Injunction because they will receive the Lemon Property
when the litigation ends and the Injunction only enjoins them from possession,
transfer and sale until that time is incorrect as a matter of law and entirely
inconsistent with the allegations made by Plaintiff in the Complaint that there
is an adequate remedy at law. 
 
The
Cohen Defendants argue that if the Court decides to keep the Injunction in
place, enjoining their possession of the Lemon Property while Plaintiff remains
a tenant, Plaintiff must be ordered to pay Cohen Defendants’ the fair rental
value of the Lemon Property, pending the outcome of this Action. Lastly, Cohen
Defendants argue that since Plaintiff has already breached his lease with Ms.
Neumann, the foreclosed upon Trustor, by failing to pay property taxes assessed
against the Lemon Property, they should be entitled to pursue unlawful detainer
proceedings against Plaintiff and all other occupants. 
 
            The Court finds that dissolving or
modifying the Injunction is not warranted at this time. The Cohen Defendants
present no evidence that a material change in the facts has occurred or a
change in the law that supports dissolving or modifying the preliminary
injunction. Further, Cohen Defendants do not argue that Plaintiff failed to
post the cash or corporate surety bond in the amount of $50,000.00 as required
by the terms of the Injunction such that the ends of justice would be served by modifying or dissolving the Injunction.
Additionally, the Cohen Defendants have not shown how not receiving
rental payments from Plaintiff is affecting them financially as to necessitate
modifying the Injunction to order Plaintiff to pay the fair rental value of the
Lemon Property on an ongoing basis. Finally,
the issuance of the Injunction was based on the same facts regarding the effect
on the Cohen Defendants’ possession, transfer and sale of the Lemon Property
presented again here by the Cohen Defendants. 
 
 
            Therefore, the Motion of Defendants
Dvir Cohen and Yafit Cohen for an order dissolving the November 8, 202
preliminary injunction is DENIED. 
 
 
             
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



