 Case Number:  22STCV15317    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  49 DailyGobble, Inc. v. Amit Jain, et al.DEFENDANT AMIT JAIN’S MOTION TO MAINTAIN UNDER SEAL “CONFIDENTIAL” RECORDS LODGED BY DEFENDANT AMIT JAIN IN SUPPORT OF HIS MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Amit JainRESPONDING PARTY:  NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff DailyGobble, Inc., brings this Complaint against Defendants Amit Jain, Alliance Group Ventures, LLC, and Chirag Patil.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant Jain is the CEO of Bridg, Inc., and Plaintiff DailyGobble held a sizeable number of shares in Bridg.  Defendant Jain approached Plaintiff about a potential sale of its shares, and falsely represented that the shares were worth no more than $0.75 each. At the same time, Defendant was negotiating a sale of Bridg in a transaction that would represent a substantial premium from the valuation Jain disclosed to DailyGobble. In reliance on Jain’s representations, Plaintiff DailyGobble sold 851,601 shares of Bridg stock to Alliance Group Ventures, purportedly operated by and for Defendant Patil, at a price of $0.725 per share. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Alliance Group and Patil are fronts for Defendant Jain.  Months after Plaintiff sold its shares, Cardlytics, Inc. acquired all of Bridg’s outstanding stock at $9 per share, a 1200% increase in the price Plaintiff received for its shares.  Defendant Amit Jain now moves to maintain under seal certain filings made in support of his motion for summary judgment. No oppositions were filed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Seal is GRANTED as stated herein.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to SealI. Legal StandardThe sealing of court records is governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551.  (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.)  The presumption of open access to court records does not apply to “records that are required to be kept confidential by law.” (Cal. Rules Court, rule 2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to seal a court record or seeking to file a record under seal must do so by motion or application supported by a declaration showing facts justifying the record’s sealing.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(1).)  California Rules of Court rule 2.550(d) states: “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  Once sealed, a record can only be unsealed by order of court.  (Id., rule 2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties must refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.)II. AnalysisDefendant Jain filed his motion for summary judgment on March 29, 2024, which includes a memorandum of points and authorities and Compendium of Evidence. The public version of his Compendium of Evidence includes a declaration and corresponding exhibits, some of which are redacted in whole or in part. Defendant contends these documents should remain under seal because they disclose or contain the protected financial information of himself or third parties. Defendant Jain’s declaration and memorandum of points and authorities also contain redactions. A. Documents Redacted in Part  [FN 1]Documents 1  (Defendant Amit Jain’s Compendium of Evidence in Support of His Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication), document 2 (Declaration of Defendant Amit Jain in Support of His Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication), and document 13 (Declaration of Anshu Jain) have been redacted where necessary to protect Defendant Jain’s bank account numbers. This is proper, and these documents may remain redacted in the public file. (See Cal. Rule of Court, Rule 1.201(a)(2) [providing that “financial account numbers” must not be in the public file].) B. Documents Entirely Sealed Documents 3-12, and 14 were filed entirely under seal—not merely redacted—and have been designated “confidential” under the Parties Stipulation and Protective order. Defendant argues these documents contain “confidential financial information,” including account numbers, account balances, and home addresses of Defendant, his son, and other third persons. Defendant argues that “the public’s interest in having access to Defendant’s and third parties’ confidential information and private financial information is outweighed by Defendant’s, Anshu Jain’s, and Prathmesh Jain’s overriding privacy interests in their confidential financial information and home addresses.” (Mtn. 3: 17-20.) Courts have recognized that the constitutional right to privacy “extends to one's confidential financial affairs,” which embraces confidential financial information in “whatever form it takes, whether that form be tax returns, checks, statements, or other account information.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Grp., Inc. (2014) 231 Cal. App. 4th 471, 503.) Upon review of the documents lodged under seal, the court makes the following express findings that justify sealing in the entirety: (1) There exists an overriding interest in the financial records that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the financial records; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealings are narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. On these findings, documents 3-12, and 14 are to remain sealed. C. Documents to be UnsealedFinally, Defendant does not oppose the unsealing of his memorandum of points and authorities in support of his motion for summary judgment, or the excerpts of his deposition transcript filed as Exhibit D to the declaration of Alexander G. Galicki.Therefore, these two documents are ordered unsealed and will be available in the public file.Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Seal is GRANTED as stated herein.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   May 01, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court FN 1 - The document numbering follows that used by Defendant in his Notice of Motion and Memorandum.