On February 7, 2023, a jury entered verdicts in favor of Plaintiffs DONE! Ventures, LLC (“Done!”) and Coastal Laundromat, Inc. (“Coastal”), and against Defendants Jerry Jamgotchian, El Segundo Plaza Associates L.P. (“ESPA”), and Theta Holding IV, Inc. (“Theta”), for Plaintiffs’ claims for interference with contract, negligent interference with prospective economic advantage, and breach of contract.On May 8, 2023, the Court entered a “judgment” on the verdict.  On July 12, 2023, the Court ruled on a motion for new trial/JNOV, stating that the amount of punitive damages awarded by the jury was improper and that Coastal was either to stipulate to $525,000 or else the Court would grant a new trial only as to the amount of punitive damages.  Coastal stipulated to taking less punitive damages.On September 5, 2023, the Court ruled on Coastal’s motion for attorneys’ fees and prejudgment interest.  Prejudgment interest was rejected, but the Court awarded $357,673 in fees.On February 6, 2024, the Court entered a final ruling denying Defendants’ motion to tax costs with respect to Done!.  That ruling also rejected prejudgment interest for Done!.  On February 27, 2024, the Court entered an “amended judgment”, which reduced the amount of punitive damages to be obtained by Done! and indicated the amount of fees, costs, and prejudgment interest to be awarded as discussed above.  On March 27, 2024, the Court denied Defendants’ request to amend the February 27, 2024, judgment as follows: “(1) amend title of the Court’s February 27, 2024, judgment to read ‘Final Judgment’ and not its current incorrect and misleading title, ‘Amended Judgment,’ (2) Amend the date of the Court’s award of post-judgment interest from May 8, 2023 (date of the Court’s interim, non-final jury verdict judgment) to the date of final judgment, or February 27, 2024 (the date the Court signed final judgment in this case, erroneously entitled ‘Amended Judgment,’ as above), as the May 8, 2023 interim judgment is void and no longer has any force and effect by operation of law.”  The Court also denied Defendants’ request to quash  “all outstanding levies issued under the Court’s interim - and now void and unenforceable - May 8, 2023 jury verdict judgment.”  Since then, Defendants have repeatedly opposed every action of Plaintiffs and the Court on the basis of their argument about a void judgment.  That’s the primary basis for the new Motion to Quash ORAP, which is now summarily DENIED.  This argument has been repeatedly made and rejected.  An appeal was already filed so it’s not apparent why Jamgotchian persists with such obstructive tactics that are clearly inimical to principles of justice.  Indeed, “the taxpayers of this state are damaged by what amounts to a waste of this court's time and resources.”  (Huschke v. Slater (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1161.)  The Court is warning Defendants now that each noticed motion that they file in the future based on this argument will result in an OSC re: sanctions in the amount of $25,000 made payable to the Court.  The Court strongly suggests that the Motion to Quash set for June 28, 2024, be taken off calendar.  Done! has also brought a motion for an OSC re: holding Defendants in contempt and awarding sanctions for their failure to comply with the Court’s February 22, 2024, order.  On February 22, 2024, the Court ordered that Defendants provide further responses to judgment debtor discovery within 20 days.  Their responses to discovery at the time were, of course, that there wasn’t a final judgment.  After the aforementioned order, Defendants yet again asserted the same objections. Defendants have not provided any justification for their conduct, other than that (a) they were going along with the Court’s September 2023 minute order relating to the Court’s sentiment that it had yet to award costs and (b) the Court did not directly address their “finality” argument until March 27, 2024.  This is TOTALLY unresponsive to the point that Defendants had an obligation to comply with the Court’s specific order of February 22, 2024, which, obviously, required responses WITHOUT objections.  There is no such thing as an order compelling further responses in which the same objections can be reasserted.  What would be the point of the order or motion?Quite notably, Defendants even had a chance to substantially comply with the order after several future hearings in which Defendants’ arguments about a final judgment were rejected.  Still they have done nothing, and it’s almost July 2024!  The Court sets an OSC re: contempt and sanctions for July 26, 2024.  At that time, Defendants should show why they shouldn’t be (a) held in contempt, (b) sanctioned $2,500, (c) ordered to provide further responses/production within 10 days, and (d) sanctioned in the daily amount of $500 for any further failure to provide responses. 