

 
            On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiffs Ava Stone, Camile Cabale, David Benetiz, Rhonda
St. John, and Steven Bicknel filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in this
matter for (1) violation of Gov. Code § 815.6, (2) nuisance, (3) negligence,
and (4) violations of the UCL.
            Plaintiffs
complain that the property located at 11966 Wagner Street, Culver City, CA
90203, is illegally functioning as a 10-unit apartment building or “boarding
house” when it is subject to R-1 zoning, which requires low density
single-family dwellings.  
Defendants Arlene Katzman, Trustee
of the Katzman Family Trust, Rishelle Maman, Trustee of the Eric Rishelle Maman
Revocable Trust, Eric Maman, Trustee of the Eric Rishelle Maman Revocable
Trust, Arlene Katzman, Rishelle Maman, Linda Maman, and Eric Maman  now demur to the FAC for uncertainty,
misjoinder, and failure to state sufficient facts.
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context,
and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn
v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
(a)  
Nuisance
            Defendants first argue that the
nuisance claim fails because it is barred by Civ. Code § 3482 because “the
lawful construction of the Property - [was] done under the express authority of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code, and pursuant to building permits which were
issued by the City's building department which implements the Code with respect
to construction activities.”
            Civ.
Code § 3482 states, “Nothing which is done or maintained under the express
authority of a statute can be deemed a nuisance.”
            Plaintiffs
argue that “Defendants willfully ‘misunderstand’ the essence of the cause of
action. It is not that the defendants ‘designed and built’ the property. It is
that defendants utilize the property in an illegal manner which constitutes a
nuisance in the neighborhood. The property is run like a 10-unit apartment
building and that is what constitutes a nuisance.”
            In Reply,
Defendants state, “Defendants ultimately were issued Certificates of Occupancy
for the Property by the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, which on
its face, confirms that the Property was constructed in accordance with the Los
Angeles Municipal Code for its intended use. See LAMC Sections 91.109.1 and
91.109.4.”
            There are
factual issues, and the FAC is sufficient to the extent it indicates, as
Plaintiffs contend, that while the subject property may have been appropriately
constructed, it is currently being used in an improper manner and not subject
to any statutory approval.  Actually, the
certificates of occupancy that Defendants point to in their RJN were issued in
2015 and indicate only a single-family residence and storage building.  Plaintiffs are alleging that this purported
single-family residence is now being used as a 10-unit building.
            Defendants
further contend that a public nuisance has not been alleged because it is not
apparent that a large number of people are affected and causation has not been
pleaded for either a private or public nuisance claim.  
“A nuisance is considered a ‘public nuisance’ when it
‘affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.’ (Civ. Code, § 3480.) A ‘private
nuisance’ is defined to include any nuisance not covered by the definition of a
public nuisance (Civ. Code, § 3481), and also includes some public nuisances.
(47 Cal.Jur.3d (2010) Nuisances, § 27, p. 303 [a nuisance may be both public
and private under certain circumstances].) ‘In other words, it is possible for
a nuisance to be public and, from the perspective of individuals who suffer an
interference with their use and enjoyment of land, to be private as well.’ (Adams v. MHC Colony Park L.P. (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 601, 610 [169 Cal. Rptr. 3d 146] (Adams).)”  (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 261-262.)
“[O]ur Supreme Court set out the elements of an action for
private nuisance. [(1)] First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with
his use and enjoyment of its property. [(2)] Second, the invasion of the
plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., it caused the
plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. [(3)] Third, the interference
with the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.  [¶]
Substantial damage and unreasonableness are to be judged by an objective
standard. (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia
Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 264, 207 Cal.Rptr.3d
532.)  [¶] With respect to the
substantial damage element, the degree of harm is to be measured by the effect
the invasion would have on persons of normal health and sensibilities living in
the same community. (SD G&E, supra,
13 Cal.4th at p. 938, 55 Cal.Rptr.2d 724, 920 P.2d 669.) If normal persons in
that locality would not be substantially annoyed or disturbed by the situation,
then the invasion is not a significant one, even though the [idiosyncrasies] of
the particular plaintiff may make it unendurable to him.”  (Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cnty. Metro. Transportation Auth. (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176 (internal quotes omitted).)
Here, it is not apparent how the nonconforming use has
caused substantial harm to Plaintiffs. 
The FAC merely indicates in general fashion that health and safety are
implicated and that Plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment has been affected.  No specifics have been provided.  Thus, a private nuisance claim has not been
properly alleged.  
“Where the nuisance alleged is not also a private nuisance
as to a private individual he does not have a cause of action on account of a
public nuisance unless he alleges facts showing special injury to himself in
person or property of a character different in kind from that suffered by the
general public.”  (Venuto v. Owens Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1971) 22 Cal.App.3d 116,
124.)
Such an injury has not been alleged; therefore, a public
nuisance has not been properly pleaded.
In sum, the Demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of
action, with twenty days leave to amend.
 
(b) 
Negligence
Defendants contend that the
negligence claim fails because it is barred by the statute of limitations.  They argue that (a) there is a 3-year period
of limitations (CCP § 338(b)); (b) the FAC alleges that the subject property
was intended to be used improperly from the outset; (c) certificates of
occupancy were issued in 2015; and (d) the statute of limitations, therefore,
expired in 2018, but this action was not filed until 2023.  
This argument is rejected.  The FAC does not make clear when the building
was first actually used in an improper manner. 
That is, it is not apparent when Plaintiffs’ claims accrued.  The allegation that “[t]he owners of The
Property planned from the very outset to use The Property for an illegal
purpose in violation of the R-1 zoning ordinance” does not indicate the time of
the nonconformity.  This allegation
merely speaks to intentions from the outset of planning.  
Defendants next argue that “Based on
Plaintiffs' failure to allege any facts identifying the ‘neighborhood’ in which
they reside, there are absolutely no facts establishing a causal nexus between
Defendants alleged duties and Plaintiffs’ “use of and quiet enjoyment of their
own properties and public land within their neighborhood …” (Id.). These vague,
barebones allegations do not state a cause of action for negligence. Plaintiffs
have simply failed to allege any facts suggesting that Defendants owed Plaintiffs
any duties whatsoever. Additionally, Plaintiffs do not allege any damage.
Rather, Plaintiffs summarily state that ‘Plaintiffs have been damaged by
Defendants' negligence and the Defendants' negligence was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiffs' harm.’ ”
Plaintiffs argue in opposition only
that “Again, defendants ‘misunderstand’ the nature of the negligence cause of
action. Defendants are negligent in how they ‘run or manage’ the property. As
with the nuisance, this is a continuing tort so long as defendants continued to
utilize the property in an illegal manner.”
Negligence requires: duty, breach of
duty, proximate causation, and damages. 
(N.N.V. v. American Assn. of Blood
Banks (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1402.) 
The Court does not see the
distinction between the negligence and nuisance claims, other than that the
nuisance claim also has an intentional component.  But, phrasing the negligence claim as
relating to poor “manage[ment]” is just casting the nuisance claim in a
different light.  To the extent
Plaintiffs could not allege a negligence-based nuisance claim, the negligence
claim also fails.  Indeed, “ ‘[w]here
negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of
due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.’ [ ]  The nuisance claim ‘stands or falls with the
determination of the negligence cause of action’ in such cases.”  (Melton
v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542.)  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the
negligence claim, with twenty days leave to amend.
 
(c)  
UCL
The UCL claim fails because, at the
very least, Plaintiffs do not specifically allege that they have “lost money or property as a
result of the unfair competition.”  (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17204.)  
 
(d) 
Summary
            In sum, the Demurrer is sustained,
with twenty days leave to amend.  The RJN
is granted.  
            Moving
party to give notice.
If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
 