  Case Number:  21STCV44259    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Mason Electric Company’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice.
 
I.                  
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
“A party shall file
a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50(a)–(b).) A cross-complaint filed outside either of the aforementioned
times requires leave of court, which may be granted “in the interest of justice
at any time during the court of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).)
 
A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
426.50.) Leave to file a cross-complaint may also be granted “in the interest
of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
428.50, subd. (c).)
 
Failure
to bring claims in a cross-complaint may have consequences. “[I]f a party against whom a complaint has been filed and
served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which
(at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the
plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the
plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30,
subd. (a).)
Defendant Mason Electric Company, Inc.
(Defendant) seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Hexadyne
Corporation (Plaintiff) and its executive Robert Sanchez alleging six causes of
action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, concealment, intentional misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation, and false promise. (O’Connor Decl. Exh. A.) The basis for
these claims are alleged misrepresentations and contract breaches by Plaintiff,
such as impermissible price mark-ups that Plaintiff pocketed the orders it
delivered to its customers in Japan, secret commissions got on side-deal with
one of these customers in violation of the contract, and the failure to solicit
additional business for Defendant as required in the contract. Defendant also
alleges that upon its termination of the contract, Plaintiff misrepresented its
circumstances, falsely claiming economic duress and the existence of penalties
which did not exist, as a means of goading Defendant into fulfilling
outstanding orders, thereby allowing Plaintiff to later sue for quasi-contract
on the proceeds gained thereby. (O’Connor Decl. Exh. A.) Defendant contends
that the basis for these causes of action was disclosed for the first time in
Plaintiff’s February 9, 2024 document production. (O’Connor Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
Plaintiff in opposition argues that the
claims asserted in the cross-complaint are not related to its own claims, and
are therefore not compulsory. (Opposition at pp. 11–13.) Plaintiff contends
that the motion is timed tactically, and that Defendant had notice of its
claims before the Complaint was filed, when it began to fulfill the orders that
are at issue in Plaintiff’s complaint. (Opposition at pp. 13–16.) Plaintiff
also contends that it will be prejudiced by the allowance of the claims,
because the claims will require new discovery and cause confusion at trial.
(Opposition at pp. 16–17.)
 
The
claims asserted in the cross-complaint are compulsory. Compulsory claims are
those that are “related” to the suit in which the cross-complaint is brought,
and a “related cause of action” is one that “arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” (ZF Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016)
5 Cal.App.5th 69, 81.) Plaintiff here alleges a quasi-contract claim based on
Plaintiff’s undertaking of orders under the contract, Defendant’s termination
of the contract, and then Defendant’s fulfilling of those orders. Defendant’s
claims arise from the same subject matter: Plaintiff’s undertaking of orders
under a contract, Defendant’s termination, and its subsequent fulfilling of
those orders. 
Plaintiff claims that this court has already rejected any
notion that this case arises from a contract, in overruling Defendant’s
demurrer to the Complaint. (Demurrer at p. 16.) The court, in rejecting
Defendant’s argument that the contract at issue barred Plaintiff’s claims,
stated:
Defendant’s
argument is unpersuasive because the transaction upon which Plaintiff sues
occurred after Defendant terminated the contract. The unjust enrichment that
Plaintiff alleges is not Defendant’s termination of the contract (although said
termination is alleged to be in “bad faith”), but Defendant’s subsequent
exploitation of Plaintiff’s circumstances to claim all of the proceeds of
certain purchase orders arranged through Plaintiff, effectively depriving
Plaintiff of compensation for its work in arranging those purchases. No contact
was in effect at the time this transaction took place, thus the “express
binding contract” that Defendant identifies did not define the parties’ rights
with respect to the conduct alleged in the complaint.


(See 5/19/2022 Order.)
Plaintiff misreads the ruling. First, the court in that
ruling determined only the dispositive effect of the contract on Plaintiff’s
claim for relief, not the factual relatedness of the contract with that claim
under Code of Civil Procedure § 426.30. Second, the ruling itself recognized
that Plaintiff’s claim was factually related to conduct occurring under the
contract, as the work for which Defendant allegedly stole Plaintiff’s
compensation after the contract was “purchases arranged through
Plaintiff” during the life of the contract. (Ibid.) Defendant had argued
that this fact barred Plaintiff’s claim for relief under the contract, and the
court rejected the argument, stating that “a plaintiff may seek reimbursement
against a party who unjustly retains the benefits of work performed during a
contract term after that contract expires,” and citing relevant authority. (Ibid.)
In other words, Plaintiff claims that Defendant unjustly retained benefits
after the termination of the contract for work that Plaintiff performed during
the contract. The hard post-contract demarcation that Plaintiff asserts is not
in keeping with the facts. Defendant’s claims are therefore related and
compulsory.
Because Defendant’s claims are compulsory, leave to assert
them in this action may not be denied absent a showing of bad faith. (See Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99 [“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.”].)
 
No bad faith has been shown here. Plaintiff contends that
Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s allegedly “exorbitant” markups on
Defendant’s orders when it began to fulfill those orders after the contract’s
termination in February 2021. (Opposition at p. 15; O’Connor Decl. Exh. A.)  But this amounts to little showing of bad
faith. Although Defendant may have known of the markups on Plaintiff’s
outstanding orders that it fulfilled in 2021, there is no evidence that it had
information concerning Plaintiff’s side-commissions, its efforts to solicit
business for Defendant, the true state of its financial duress (and potential
penalties), or markups on prior orders under the contract until document
production was made in February 2024. (O’Connor Decl. ¶ 13.)
 
Nor will Plaintiff suffer
substantial prejudice from permitting the cross-complaint. The parties have
already agreed to a continuance of trial from its May 7, 2024 date to October
22, 2024. (See 3/29/2024.) Although Plaintiff claims that the
cross-complaint is an attempted “end-around” the ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer, this is not the case, as explained above. The addition of the claims
is unlikely to significantly expand discovery, as the facts that Defendant
allege would likely be relevant to Plaintiff’s claims for unjust enrichment in
any event, which is founded in equitable principles. (Welborne v.
Ryman-Carroll Foundation (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) Defendant indeed
represents that no depositions of witnesses or experts has yet taken place, and
therefore need not be redone to account for cross-claims.(Reply at p. 11.)
Plaintiff’s contentions regarding potential jury confusion are speculative.
(Opposition at pp. 16–17.) 
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 