 Case Number:  22STCV25247    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID TRUONG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MINH HANG THI NGUYEN, et al.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV25247
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 5, 2023
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Plaintiff David Truong (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
compelling Defendant Minh Hang Thi Nguyen (“Defendant”) to serve supplemental
responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories (the “Form
Interrogatories”) and to compel Defendant to identify and produce documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories which have not yet been produced.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion as follows.  Within 30 days, Defendant shall provide
complete responses to Form Interrogatory 17.1, including (i) responses for each
RFA providing the information requested in subdivisions (c) and (d) of the Form
Interrogatory; and (ii) a proper response to subparts 12-25, 27-29, and 31-32.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the
amount of  $2,640.00. Defendant will pay
that amount directly to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on August 4, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed on December 12,
2022. The FAC states claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duties; (2) fraud by
concealment; (3) fraud by intentional misrepresentation; (4) civil conspiracy;
(5) conversion; (6) unfair business practices; (7) partition by sale; and (8)
accounting. Each cause of action is raised against Defendant Nguyen, as well as
various combinations of other defendants.
 
On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff served the Form Interrogatories
on Defendant. On June 16, 2023, Defendant served the responses at issue in this
motion. From July 20, 2023 to August 14, 2023, the parties met and conferred
over the adequacy of the responses, but no supplemental responses have been
filed.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on August 29, 2023. Defendant
filed no opposition.  
 
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 2017.010 
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
 
CCP § 2031.220
 
A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.
 
CCP § 2031.230
 
A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.
 
CCP § 2031.310
 
(a) On receipt of a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
          (1) A statement
of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of
the following:
(1) The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand.
(2) The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(3) In lieu of a
separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice
of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.
 
… (h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
          The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)     
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Discussion
 
This motion is unopposed. Plaintiff’s positions are set
forth in his memorandum of points and authorities and separate statement. The
Court rules as follows on the discovery requests:
 
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1: Defendant shall respond
to subparts (c) and (d) for each request for admission.  Also, Defendant must provide proper responses
to subparts 12-25, 27 through 29 and 31-32. 
These answers are so brief and cryptic that they barely do anything
other than restate the denial.
 
As Plaintiff has not made a case for why Defendant is
required to produce the documents he identifies, the Court denies that request.
 
Sanctions
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees,
but reduces the hours anticipated to be spent on drafting a reply and preparing
for and appearing at the hearing from 3.5 to .1 because no opposition was
filed. The Court finds Pamela Tahim Thakur’s hourly rate of $400.00 to be
reasonable based on her 18 years of legal experience. The Court grants a total
of 6.6 hours, for a total of $2,640.00.