  Case Number:  23STCV18835    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  WESTLAKE SERVICES, LLC,Plaintiff, vs. JORGE PORRAS CHAVEZ,Defendant.  Case No.:  23STCV18835 Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   PLAINTIFF WESTLAKE SERVICES’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT JORGE PORRAS CHAVEZ’S RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE.On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed verified responses to the Request for Production, Set One. With respect to the four requests, Defendant responded as follows: “Defendant does not have any documents to produce.” In response to a request for production, a responding party has three options. First, the party may respond that they will comply. Second, the party may represent that they lack the ability to comply. Third, the party may object to the request. (CCP Section 2031.210(a)(1)-(3).) If a party picks the second option, they must affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with the request. (CCP Section 2031.230.) CCP Section 2031.220 provides as follows.A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.Section 2031.230 provides as follows.A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.Defendant’s response are not code-compliant because they do not meet the requirements of Section 2031.230 as set forth above.Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to its Request for Production, Set One is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to serve verified code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days after the date of this order. Also, any documents responsive to the requests must be produced within 20 days after the date of this order. Sanctions in the amount of $1,250 are imposed against Defendant. These sanctions are payable within 20 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC alleges that it entered into a contract with Defendant Jorge Porras Chavez to sell a vehicle to Chavez. Chavez failed to make payments as required by the parties’ contract.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC filed its Complaint against Defendant Jorge Porras Chavez.On September 6, 2023, Defendant filed his answer.On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s responses to requests for production.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for orders compelling Defendant to respond to its Request for Production (“RPDs”), Set One.Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Unverified discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).  (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) However, objections to interrogatories and demands for production are not required to be verified because “objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party.” (Blue Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)A party waives its objections to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.200(a)) Even if objections do not need to be verified, objections will be waived if the responding party “fails to file any response within the statutory time period.” (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.)Here, Plaintiff’s Counsel testifies that he served Defendant with Request for Production, Set One on September 12, 2023. (Friedman Decl., ¶2.) On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel mailed a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel granting a courtesy extension to November 20, 2023 and informing him that Plaintiff would file a motion to compel if Defendant failed to serve responses. (Id., ¶3.) To date, Defendant has not served responses. (Id., ¶4.)Because Defendant failed to provide timely code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. Here, the Court finds Defendant’s failure to serve timely code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests is misuse of the discovery process. The Court awards Plaintiff $1,250 in sanctions for two hours of attorney time at a rate of $595 per hour and filing fees.DATED: April 19, 2024 ____________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 