 Case Number:  23STCV14304    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (LAUSD) demurs to the second through seventh causes of action and the
ninth cause of action alleged in the second amended complaint by plaintiff Jane
M.R. Doe.
Summary
of Allegations
            Plaintiff alleges she was abused by David
Lee Scott, a counselor at her high school, CATCH Prep Charter High School.  (SAC, ¶¶ 22-28.)  She alleges Scott previously worked for LAUSD
at Crenshaw Senior High School, where he “had inappropriate relationships with multiple
female students, including inappropriate touching and sexual misconduct with at
least one student.”  (¶ 14.)  LAUSD allegedly “gave Scott multiple warnings
related to him having inappropriate relationships with students” and gave him a
“below standard final evaluation for failing to maintain appropriate
relationships with students and staff.”  (¶ 15.) 
The second amended complaint alleges LAUSD decided “to terminate
him" (ibid.), but “allowed Scott to quietly resign from his
position at Crenshaw Senior High School in exchange for LAUSD facilitating his
move to another school and/or school district.” 
(¶ 17.)
            Plaintiff further alleges Scott
quickly applied to work at CATCH, which “required Scott to submit a background
[check] to LAUSD, and … required Scott to work and/or train with LAUSD.”  (¶ 18.) 
The second amended complaint alleges CATCH’s executive director
contacted the principal and assistant principal of Crenshaw Senior High School,
both of whom did not mention the problems with Scott’s performance.  (¶ 19.) 
Instead, “both provided” the executive director “with false
glowing recommendations for Scott” and “represented that Scott was in good
standing with LAUSD and eligible for re-hire.” 
(Ibid.)  LAUSD allegedly
“failed to notify CATCH of the complaints LASD had received from students and
staff regarding Scott” or “that Scott was unfit to work with children.”  (¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff alleges, “[R]elying on LAUSD’s recommendation, CATCH employed
Scott in August of 2005,” and LAUSD thereby “rid itself of Scott.”  (Ibid.)
The
second amended complaint includes extensive new allegations about the
relationship between LAUSD and CATCH. 
(SAC, ¶¶ 4, 29-36.)  It alleges, “LAUSD
retained the highest level of authority within CATCH and maintained the top
position of the CATCH organizational chart … . 
LAUSD was at the beginning of its charter movement, and LAUSD’s
relationship with CATCH exceeded that of a modern-day chartering authority to
charter school relationship, so much so, that LAUSD and CATCH essentially operated
as the same organization.”  (¶ 4.)
Plaintiff further alleges: “LAUSD oversaw
both the educational and operational components of CATCH, including but not
limited too: 1) the development of the CATCH Charter Petition; 2) overseeing
staff recruitment, background checks, selection, evaluation, and termination;
3) conducting on-site observations; 4) providing monthly trainings for CATCH
staff to attend at LAUSD’s facilities; 5) student safety; and 6) and monitoring
CATCH’s financial situation, including by requiring CATCH to maintain specific
liability insurance coverage. According to testimony by CATCH’s Executive
Director at the time, Patricia Smith, LAUSD also maintained a CATCH Oversight
Folder which contained information and documentation that LAUSD required CATCH
to provide to LAUSD for inspection, including but not limited to documents
related to CATCH’s financial position, liability coverage, employee hiring
documents, employee training documents, employee credentialing information,
student safety, etc. LAUSD was required to inspect these documents to make sure
CATCH was compliant, and to ensure that CATCH was in compliance with the
requirements LAUSD had in place. LAUSD was also required to perform site visits
and to observe students, teachers, and staff as part of their oversight duties.”  (¶ 30.) 

Sham
Pleading Doctrine
            LAUSD argues the court should apply
the sham pleading doctrine to the allegations concerning LAUSD’s oversight of
CATCH.  (¶¶ 29-36.)  “Under
the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints
to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to
avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)  The doctrine
is not “intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous
allegations of generic terms which may have legal implications but which are
also loosely used by laymen or to prevent the correction of ambiguous
statements of fact.” (Contreras v. Blue Cross of California (1988) 199
Cal.App.3d 945, 950.)
            LAUSD
contends the allegations discussed above contradict portions of the first
amended complaint about the relationship between LAUSD and CATCH.  For example, the first amended complaint
alleged, “At all relevant times, Defendant CATCH was an LAUSD-authorized
charter school, operating under a contract with LAUSD, and a partner of LAUSD.  Defendant LAUSD” was “responsible for
overseeing existing charter schools within the district, including CATCH.  Specifically, LAUSD oversaw both the
educational and operational components of CATCH during all relevant times.”  (FAC, ¶ 4.) 
The amendments to the complaint are not so inconsistent as to warrant applying
the sham pleading doctrine.  Rather than
contradicting the prior allegations, the new allegations provide further detail
about LAUSD’s oversight of CATCH.
Immunity
under the Charter Schools Act
Charter schools, including CATCH, are
created pursuant to the Charter Schools Act. 
Under this statutory scheme, charter schools “operate independently”
from local school districts (Ed. Code, § 47601), though they are subject to
“supervisorial oversight” by the chartering authority, which can be a local
school district like the LAUSD.  (Ed.
Code, § 47613).  Chartering authorities
have “continuing oversight and monitoring powers.”  (Mendoza v. State of California (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 1034, 1060.)  Those
powers do not, however, include the power or responsibility to hire, fire, and
supervise employees, including teachers. 

Education Code section 47604, subdivision (d)
provides, “A chartering authority that grants a charter to a charter school to
be operated as or by a nonprofit public benefit corporation is not liable for
the debts or obligations of the charter school or for claims arising from the
performance of acts, errors, or omissions by the charter school if the
chartering authority has complied with all oversight responsibilities required
by law, including, but not limited to, those required by Section 47604.32 and
subdivision (m) of Section 47605.”  
LAUSD argues Education Code section 47604,
subdivision (d) immunizes it from liability to plaintiff for events that
occurred at CATCH.  The second amended
complaint, however, does not allege LAUSD is vicariously liable “for claims arising
from the performance of acts, errors, or omissions by the charter school.”  Instead, plaintiff’s causes of action against
LAUSD arise from its own alleged conduct with respect to Scott and overseeing
CATCH.  Plaintiff alleges that, contrary
to state law, LAUSD “oversaw” “staff recruitment, background checks, selection,
evaluation, and termination” of employees. 
(SAC, ¶ 30.)  In other words,
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD itself was negligent, not that it is liable for CATCH’s
negligence.
In contrast to federal court, this court
must accept plaintiff’s allegations as true, however implausible.  Further, the court assumes plaintiff’s
counsel complied with their ethical obligation of diligently confirming that
the allegations have evidentiary support or are likely to have evidentiary
support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation and
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subd. (b)(3).)
Duty
            LAUSD contends it owed no duty to plaintiff.  For example, it argues, “A public school
district has no duty to a nonstudent at a site that is not owned or controlled
by that district.”  (Demurrer, p. 4.)  The second amended complaint, however, alleges
detailed facts about the extent of LAUSD’s oversight of CATCH.  (¶¶ 29-36.) 
It alleges that, in contrast with the modern relationship between public
school districts and charters, “LAUSD was at the beginning of its charter
movement” and its “relationship with CATCH exceeded that of a modern-day
chartering authority to charter school relationship, so much so, that LAUSD and
CATCH essentially operated as the same organization.”  (¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff thus alleges LAUSD did control CATCH, the site where the abuse
occurred.  
2nd Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention of an Unfit Employee
Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Negligent hiring, retention, and supervision
applies “where the plaintiff’s injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact
between the plaintiff and the employee was generated by the employment
relationship.”  (Mendoza v. City of
Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339–1340.)  “[A]n employer does not owe a
plaintiff a duty of care in a negligent hiring and retention action for an
injury or other harm inflicted by a former employee on the plaintiff even”
if the employee “initially met the plaintiff while employed by the employer.”  (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1141.)  
The second
amended complaint alleges Scott sexually assaulted plaintiff after LAUSD
“terminated” him.  (¶ 16.)  LAUSD no longer supervised or retained Scott
in the usual sense.  But “[i]rrespective of the labels attached by the
pleader to any alleged cause of action, [courts] examine the factual
allegations of the complaint, ‘to determine whether they state a cause of
action on any available legal theory.’ ”  (Adelman v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 352, 359.)  Plaintiff alleges
LAUSD exercised such control over CATCH (¶¶ 29-36) that, while LAUSD no longer
directly employed or retained Scott, it continued to supervise him.  She further alleges LAUSD could and should
have taken action to prohibit Scott from working at CATCH.  (¶¶ 15-21.) 
Plaintiff thus alleges sufficient facts to establish (a) LAUSD owed a
duty to her via its control over CATCH and its employees and (b) LAUSD breached
that duty.
3rd Cause of Action: Breach of Mandatory Duty
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Government Code section 815.6 provides,
“Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that
is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the
public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its
failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it
exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.”  The elements of this claim are: “(1) a mandatory
duty is imposed by enactment, (2) the duty was designed to protect against the
kind of injury allegedly suffered, and (3) breach of the duty proximately
caused injury.”  (State Dept. of State
Hospitals v. Superior Court (2015) 61 Cal.4th 339, 348.)  
            The
second amended complaint does not allege sufficient facts for the third
element: breach of any mandatory duty that proximately caused injury to
plaintiff.  The second amended complaint
refers to numerous statutes and regulatory duties—none of which meet this
element.  (¶ 53.)  Education Code section 44870 and California
Code of Regulations, Title 5, sections 5530, 5531, and 5552 impose duties to
monitor pupils’ conduct.  For example,
Education Code section 44807 provides, “Every teacher in the public schools
shall hold pupils to a strict account for their conduct on the way to and from
school, on the playgrounds, or during recess.” 
Even assuming students at CATCH constitute LAUSD’s “pupils,” plaintiff
does not allege she was harmed because a teacher failed to hold pupils to
account for their conduct.  She alleges
Scott, a counselor or dean, harmed her.
            The
second amended complaint also cites Education Code sections 44662, 44664, and
44830.  These sections govern procedures
for evaluating employees, such as the permitted criteria for evaluations (Ed.
Code, § 44662, subds. (b)-(e)) and the frequency of evaluations (Ed. Code, §
44664(a)).  These statutes concern the
technical process of evaluating employees. 
Plaintiff does not allege LAUSD failed to do so or that any such failure
proximately caused harm to her.  She
alleges LAUSD did evaluate Scott.  (SAC,
¶¶ 15, 18.)  Section 44830, meanwhile,
requires that “for positions requiring certification qualifications” (id.,
subd. (a)), school districts must only employ people who have certain
qualifications such as passing a “state basic skills proficiency examination” (id.,
subd. (c)) or have a bachelor’s degree (id., subd. (m)).  Plaintiff does not allege Scott lacked a
required credential.  
            Finally,
the second amended complaint refers to Education Code section 44870 (¶ 53),
which provides, “No one shall be employed to supervise the work of teachers for
more than half time during any school week unless he is the holder of a valid
teacher’s certificate authorizing him to teach in the schools and classes in
which he is to supervise instruction and a valid supervision certificate.”  Plaintiff does not allege someone without a
valid teacher’s certificate supervised the work of teachers more than half time
or that any such failure harmed her.
4th Cause of Action: Failure to Report Suspected
Child Abuse
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for this cause of
action.  The Child Abuse and Neglect
Reporting Act (CANRA) “requires a mandated reporter to make a report to a law
enforcement agency or a county welfare department ‘whenever the mandated
reporter, in his or her professional capacity or within the scope of his or her
employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated reporter
knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect.’
”  (B.H. v. County of San Bernardino
(2015) 62 Cal.4th 168, 186.)  The
California Supreme Court has stated, “Reasonably construed, [CANRA] was
intended to protect only those children in the custodial care of the person
charged with reporting the abuse, and not all children who may at some future
time be abused by the same offender.”  (Randi
W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1087.)
The second amended complaint alleges, “The employees
and agents of Defendants knew or reasonably suspected that Defendant SCOTT and
DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, and each of them, were acting inappropriately
with Plaintiff.”  (¶ 66.)  LAUSD argues this allegation is conclusory,
so the court should not accept it.  But someone’s
knowledge, suspicion, or other state of mind is generally an ultimate fact that
courts accept on demurrer.  (See, e.g., Johnson
v. Casetta (1961) 197 Cal.App.2d 272, 276 [“an allegation of knowledge of
incompetency is an allegation of ultimate fact”]; Rosin v. Superior Court
(1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 486, 490 [someone’s “intent” was “an allegation of fact,
not a mere conclusion”].)  Plaintiff’s
allegations suffice on demurrer.
5th Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a
Minor
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action for the same reasons as the
second cause of action.  Though she was
not a student of an LAUSD school, plaintiff alleges LAUSD exercised such
control over CATCH that it was effectively supervising the students there.     
6th Cause of Action: Negligent Failure to Warn,
Train, or Educate
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  LAUSD’s demurrer relies on the premise that
this cause of action seeks to hold LAUSD liable for not educating plaintiff about
avoiding sexual abuse.  (Demurrer, pp.
8-9.)  This cause of action, however,
also alleges LAUSD breached duties to train faculty: “Defendants had a duty to
warn, train, and educate the students in their custody, care, and control, like
Plaintiff, on known and knowable dangers posed by its employees and/or agents.  Defendants also had a duty to warn, train,
and educate its employees and/or agents on its sexual misconduct policy and on
inappropriate boundary crossing with minor students.”  (¶ 84.) 
It further alleges LAUSD breached those duties both by failing to warn
plaintiff and “failing to adequately and properly train its faculty, including”
Scott “on their sexual misconduct policies.” 
(¶ 85.)  Thus, assuming school
districts have no duty to teach or warn students about avoiding sexual abuse
(see Ed. Code, § 51950(a) [“A school district may provide abuse,
including sexual abuse, and human trafficking prevention education”]),
plaintiff alleges LAUSD breached a duty to teach or warn faculty and other
employees.
7th Cause of Action: Negligence
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action for the same reasons as her
other negligence claims.  
9th Cause of Action: Sexual Harassment
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against LAUSD.  “[A] school district can be held liable for
damages when a teacher sexually harasses a student.  [Citation.] 
However, the district is not liable ‘unless an official of the school
district who at a minimum has authority to institute corrective measures on the
district’s behalf has actual notice of, and is deliberately indifferent to, the
[employee’s] misconduct.’ ”  (Roe v.
Hesperia Unified School District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, 33; accord Donovan
v. Poway Unified School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 601.)  
            Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD knew Scott had “had inappropriate relationships with multiple
female students, including inappropriate touching and sexual misconduct with at
least one student he was counseling” at Crenshaw Senior High School.  (SAC, ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff further alleges, “The employees and agents of Defendants knew
or reasonably suspected that” Scott was “acting inappropriately with Plaintiff.”  (¶ 66.) 
Considering the new allegations about LAUSD’s extensive control over
CATCH, plaintiff adequately alleges LAUSD officials had actual notice of
Scott’s misconduct with plaintiff and failed to institute corrective
measures.    
Possibility
of Amendment
            After a successful demurrer,
where “there is a reasonable possibility that the defects can be cured by
amendment, leave to amend must be granted.” 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594,
601.)  The plaintiff bears the burden of
“demonstrat[ing] how the complaint can be amended.”  (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 711.)  Plaintiff does not meet her burden of
demonstrating how she can cure the defects with her third cause of action for
breach of mandatory duty. 
Disposition
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s demurrer to plaintiff’s third cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.  Defendant’s
demurrer to plaintiff’s second, fourth through seventh, and ninth causes of
action is overruled.  Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District shall answer the second amended complaint
within 20 days.