  Case Number:  21STCV44242    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Shane Perel-Wertman’s
Motion to Compel Second Further Response to Form Interrogatories
Plaintiff Shane Perel-Wertman moves to compel defendant Liza
Perel to serve second further responses to form interrogatories Nos. 12.1,
15.1, and 17.1.  A party propounding interrogatories may move to compel further responses
when an answer “is evasive or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)  
On June 26, 2024, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories –
general, including Nos. 12.1, 15.1, and 17.1. 
“If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to
interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just, including”
issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, terminating sanctions, or monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2030.300(e).)
Payment
of Sanctions
            Plaintiff argues defendant disobeyed
the court’s order issuing sanctions because she refuses to pay them by
cashier’s check as plaintiff requested. 
Plaintiff’s counsel offers no authority nor any valid reason that
permits him to insist on payment by his preferred method.  Defendant’s counsel did ask plaintiff’s
counsel about his preferred method of payment, but that does not give plaintiff
free reign to be unreasonable.  
Timeliness
of Further Responses and Opposition
            Plaintiff argues defendant disobeyed
the court’s order by serving further responses after close of business on July
26, 2024.  The court ordered defendant to
serve further responses within 30 days of June 26, which was July 26.  The court did not order her to serve the
responses by a particular time that day. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4) provides, “Any
document that is served electronically between 12:00 a.m. and 11:59:59 p.m. on
a court day shall be deemed served on that court day.”  Defendant served her responses on July 26, a
court day.  Doing so complied with the
court’s order.
            Plaintiff also argues defendant’s
opposition was untimely.  The opposition
was due September 5, nine court days before this hearing.  The clerk’s stamp on the opposition indicates
it was “Electronically FILED” at “9/06/2024 12:00 AM.”  Defendant thus filed the opposition one
minute late.  Plaintiff suffered no real prejudice.  This conduct, however, raises a concern that defendant’s
counsel, David B. Felsenthal (State Bar No. 140203), is intentionally serving
documents as late as possible.  Doing so
would be discourteous, uncivil, and unprofessional in violation of local and
state rules of court.  (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 9.7 [“As an officer of the court, I will strive to conduct myself
at all times with dignity, courtesy and integrity”]; Local Rules, Appendix 3.A,
Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, (b)(1) [“The timing and manner of
service of papers should not be used to the disadvantage of the party receiving
the papers”].) 
Answers
to Form Interrogatories
            Plaintiff contends defendant’s
response to form interrogatory No. 12.1 is evasive because she redefined the
term “incident.”  Plaintiff’s form
interrogatories use the default definition: “INCIDENT includes the
circumstances and events surrounding the alleged accident, injury, or other
occurrence or breach of contract giving rise to this action or
proceeding.”  
            Defendant gave a sufficient answer
to form interrogatory No. 12.1.  It asks
her to identify anyone who witnessed the incident, who made any statement at
the scene, who heard any statements made about the incident, or whom she claims
has knowledge of the incident.  She
responded by identifying herself, the plaintiff, and Joel Wertman.
Plaintiff argues defendant must answer as to his allegations about “the
first 21 years of his life.”  (SAC, ¶
3.)  Events occurring over 21 years are
not an “incident” and did not give rise to this action.  As defendant asserts, “None of my alleged
failings as Shane’s mother in ‘the first 21 years of his life’ or otherwise
have anything to do with whether I committed an assault and battery against
Shane.”  (L. Perel Decl., ¶ 8.)  Moreover, defendant cannot feasibly identify
every person who witnessed 21 years of events. 
Plaintiff’s second amended complaint only alleges a handful of events
that can reasonably be considered “incidents” or events giving rise to this
action.  (SAC, ¶¶ 8, 11, 16, 22.)  
Defendant did not give a complete response to form interrogatory No.
15.1.  It asks her to identify each
denial of a material allegation and, for each, to (a) state all supporting
facts, (b) identify all supporting witnesses, and (c) identify all supporting
documents or tangible things.  Defendant responded,
“In his Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff describes encounters between
Plaintiff and Defendant which occurred at 6517 Whitworth Drive, Los Angeles, CA
90035.  Defendant generally recalls the
encounters with Plaintiff (the adult son of Defendant), but the encounters were
different than what Plaintiff describes in his Second Amended Complaint.  Defendant did not threaten her adult son or
offensively touch her adult son.  Defendant
did exchange some harsh words with her adult son, but that is all.”  
This response is sufficient as to No. 15.1(a).  The encounters alleged in the second amended
complaint are the material allegations defendant denied.  Allegations about plaintiff’s first 21 years
of life are not material.  Defendant
sufficiently states facts on which she bases her denial: the things he alleges
did not happen, and what did happen is that she “exchange[d] some harsh words
with” him.  Defendant did not, however,
answer parts (b) or (c).  Plaintiff is
entitled to answers to those parts of No. 15.1.
Finally, defendant gave a valid response to form interrogatory No.
17.1.  The interrogatory asks various
questions about “each response” to requests for admission “that is not an
unqualified admission.”  Plaintiff argues
defendant’s response is incomplete because it omitted requests for admission
Nos. 9, 15, and 16.  Defendant, however, served
amended responses to plaintiff’s requests for admission along with her further
responses to the form interrogatories.  (Felsenthal
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 2.)  Her amended
responses to Nos. 9, 15, and 16 are simply, “Admit.”  (Id., pp. 2-4.)  Those are unqualified admissions.  Form interrogatory No. 17.1 does not apply to
them.
Plaintiff argues amending the responses to requests for admission
violated Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300.  Subdivision (a) of that section provides, “A
party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for
admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.”  Subdivision (b) provides, “The court may
permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  This section applies to withdrawal or
amendment of “an admission”—not a denial. 
Defendant amended her responses to make unqualified admissions.  Doing that gave plaintiff the admissions he
asked for.  There is no good reason to protest
now.
Sanctions
            Plaintiff moves for various types of
sanctions against defendant.  Plaintiff’s
motion achieved only minimal success. 
Defendant acted with substantial justification.  The court will not impose any sanctions
against defendant.
Disposition
Plaintiff Shane Perel-Wertman’s motion to compel further responses
to form interrogatories is granted in part only as to form interrogatory
No. 15.1, parts (b) and (c).  Defendant
Liza Perel is ordered to serve further verified responses without
objections to form interrogatories – general, No. 15.1, part (b) and part (c) within
10 days.