  Case Number:  21STCV32844    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Jennifer
Alcox v. Emanate Health Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital, et al. 
Defendant
Emanate Health Dba Queen of The Valley Hospital’s Motion for Summary Adjudication 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Queen of the Valley’s motion for summary adjudication
as to issues 1, 2, and 4. 
              Queen of the Valley is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a medical malpractice action. On September 7, 2021, plaintiff
Jennifer Alcox, individually and as successor in interest to decedent Yvonne
Alcox (Plaintiff), filed this action. On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint against defendants Emanate Health
Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital (Queen of the Valley), Augen
Batou, D.O. (Dr. Batou), Adel Sandouk, M.D. (Dr. Sandouk), and Does 1 through
100, alleging causes of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect (against Queen
of the Valley only), negligence based upon medical malpractice, and wrongful
death. 
On February 28, 2024, Queen of the Valley moved for summary
judgment or in the alternative, for summary adjudication. On February 29, 2024,
Queen of the Valley filed an amended motion for summary judgment or in the
alternative, motion for summary adjudication. 
On May 29, 2024, upon Stipulation of the Parties, Queen of the
Valley’s Motion for Summary Judgment will be taken off calendar and its
alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues will be determined with
the exception of the third Issue to be adjudicated which reads: "The Third
Cause of Action for alleged 'Wrongful Death' lacks merit as the care and
treatment rendered by EH to Decedent was at all times appropriate and complied
with the applicable standard of care and was not the legal cause of her death." 
On June 28, 2024, Queen of the Valley filed a notice of
non-opposition to motion for summary of adjudication of issues. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,
italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 381-382.) 
“On
a motion for summary judgment [or summary adjudication], the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUE 
            The Court notes that Queen of the
Valley’s separate statement contains 82 proffered statements of undisputed
material fact. While the Court
appreciates the complexity of the practice of medicine, the Court finds this does not comply
with Rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(2), of the California Rules of Court, which
provides that, “[t]he separate
statement should include only material facts and not any facts that are not
pertinent to the disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350,
subd. (d)(2).) The Court will still consider the motion for summary adjudication
but admonishes Queen of the Valley to comply with the requirements of the
California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Relevant Material Facts 
Decedent Yvonne Alcox (Decedent), who had a history of respiratory
problems, was admitted to Queen of the Valley’s emergency department on June 9,
2020, complaining of shortness of breath. (UMF 2.) Decedent had refused an oral
intubation, and was placed on BiPAP. (UMF 11.) During this stay, Decedent
continued manifesting respiratory problems, but she was alert and responsive
while also agitated towards hospital staff, and she removed breathing equipment
(BiPAP) on her own on multiple occasions. (UMF 19-54.) On June 10, 2020, at
8:58 p.m., a nurse went into Decedent’s room to administer medication and found
Decedent’s BiPAP and BiPAP mask on the floor, while Decedent was unresponsive
and without a pulse. (UMF 54.) CPR was administered, which successfully
resuscitated Decedent, but Decedent suffered a brain injury and was later
transferred to Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park, where she remained until July 23,
2020. (UMF 54-60.) Decedent was transferred to Inland Valley Care and Rehab
Center on July 23, 2020, where her admission report noted pressure sores on
certain parts of her body, along with other health problems, and she remained
there until August 4, 2020. (UMF 60.) On August 4, 2020, Decedent was admitted
to Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, where she remained until her death on
September 11, 2020, which was reportedly caused by acute respiratory failure,
sepsis, and cerebrovascular accident. (UMF 61.) 
Dr. Batou was Decedent’s attending physician for part of her stay at
Queen of the Valley, which entailed prescribing medications, a referral to a
pulmonologist, and ordering soft restraints at one point. (UMF 25-26, 31, 35,
41, 43-44, 46, 48.) Queen of the Valley’s expert, Dr. Miles Shaw, M.D., opines
that Queen of the Valley complied with the applicable standard of care in
treating Decedent. (UMF 62-78.) Dr. Shaw also opines that no allegedly negligent
act or omission of Queen of the Valley caused injury or contributed to
Decedent’s death. (UMF 79-82.) 
Analysis 
First Cause of Action – Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect 
The statutory definition of neglect is set forth, in pertinent
part, as follows: “‘Neglect’ is the ‘negligent failure of any person having the
care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of
care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.’” (Cal. Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.57(a)(1).) The statute expressly provides that
neglect includes, among other things, “[f]ailure to provide medical care for
physical and mental health needs” and “[f]ailure to protect from health and
safety hazards.” (Id., § 15610.57(b)(2)(3).) In order to obtain enhanced
remedies under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (EADACPA),
as emphasized above, “a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing
evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than mere negligence; . . .
she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.” (Delaney,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 31, emphasis added; College Hospital, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704 [“College Hospital”].)
“‘Recklessness’ is defined as a ‘subjective state of culpability greater than
mere negligence,’ involving a ‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of
probability’ that an injury will occur.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
p. 31.) Reckless
conduct “rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action…with
knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in it.’” [Citations.]
(Conservatorship of Gregory v. Beverly Enterprises, Inc. (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 514, 521; Rest. 2d Torts, § 500, com. (g), at 590; CACI 3113, p.
1422 (West 2003), BAJI Nos. 7.46 - 7.48, pp. 248-251 (West 2002).) 
Queen of the Valley contends that the expert testimony from Dr. Miles
Shaw establishes that there are no triable issues of material fact, as Queen of
the Valley complied with the standard of care and did not cause or contribute
to Decedent’s injuries or death. The Court agrees. 
“Expert evidence in a malpractice suit is conclusive as to the
proof of the prevailing standard of skill and learning in the locality and of
the propriety of particular conduct by the practitioner in particular instances
because such standard and skill is not a matter of general knowledge and can
only be supplied by expert testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981)
121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412, quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d
988, 999.) Dr. Shaw’s expert testimony clearly provides that Queen of the
Valley did not breach the applicable standard of care within the relevant
professional community, and that Queen of the Valley did not cause or
contribute to Decedent’s injuries. (See Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 11(a-p)-12(a-c).) Dr.
Shaw opines that the use of BiPAP was appropriate given Decedent’s history of
respiratory problems and refusal of intubation. (Id., ¶ 11(d).) The
decision to intubate and treat with BiPAP was also the responsibility of the
pulmonologist, not the hospitalist, i.e., Dr. Batou. (Notice of Lodgment, Ex.
D, pdf p. 2926.) The evidence shows that Decedent was alert
and responsive during treatment she received before the emergency at 9:00 p.m.
on June 10, 2020. (Shaw Decl., ¶ 9(c)- 10(m).) 
Dr. Shaw further opines that “that at
all times relevant the professional services to the patient at the [Queen of
the Valley] were appropriately, competently, and skillfully provided given her
right to make her own decisions about medical care and treatment. It was most
certainly not reckless, malicious, or oppressive in any respect to honor the
patient’s desire that she not be intubated but simply respectful recognition of
her right to autonomy.” (Id., ¶ 11(l).) Further, Dr. Shaw opines that “the medical care provided .
. . [was] within the applicable standards of care  . . . and at no time was she denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet her basic needs. The patient was
neither abused nor neglected while she was a patient at [Queen of the Valley].”
(Id., ¶ 11 (k).) 
The Court finds Queen of the Valley has established the absence of
a triable issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff
to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
However, Plaintiff did not oppose Queen of the Valley’s motion for
summary adjudication. Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to establish the existence
of a triable issue of material fact as to Queen of the Valley.
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Queen of the Valley’s
motion for summary adjudication as to this issue.
Second Cause of Action – Medical Negligence 
“The elements of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action
allege ‘(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional's negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg
(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 234, 238 fn. 3.) “As in medical malpractice cases,
standards of due care and competence are commonly established by the generally
accepted practices and procedures within the professional community.
[Citations.]” (Milligan v. Hearing Aid Dispensers Examining Com. (1983)
142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.) 
Queen of the Valley contends that the expert testimony from Dr. Miles
Shaw establishes that there are no triable issues of material fact, as Queen of
the Valley complied with the standard of care and did not cause or contribute
to Decedent’s injuries or death. The Court agrees. 
Dr. Shaw’s expert testimony clearly provides that Queen of the
Valley did not breach the applicable standard of care within the relevant
professional community, and that Queen of the Valley did not cause or
contribute to Decedent’s injuries. (See Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 11(a-p)-12(a-c).) Dr.
Shaw opines that the use of BiPAP was appropriate given Decedent’s history of
respiratory problems and refusal of intubation. (Id., ¶ 11(d).) The
decision to intubate and treat with BiPAP was also the responsibility of the
pulmonologist, not the hospitalist, i.e., Dr. Batou. (Notice of Lodgment, Ex.
D, pdf p. 2926.) The evidence shows that Decedent was alert
and responsive during treatment she received before the emergency at 9:00 p.m.
on June 10, 2020. (Shaw Decl., ¶ 9(c)- 10(m).) 
Dr. Shaw further opines that the
standard of care did not require Queen of the Valley’s staff to contact
Plaintiff because Decedent was competent to make decisions and think clearly. (Shaw
Decl., ¶ 11(g).) Dr. Shaw opines that the standard of care also did not require
that a sitter be ordered, as Decedent was not a suicide risk or demented. (Id., ¶ 11 (h).) Dr. Shaw also opines that
Decedent’s respiratory arrest and subsequent death likely resulted from her
underlying respiratory issues and her own removal of the BiPAP mask. (Id., ¶ 12 (a-c).) 
The Court finds Queen of the Valley has established the absence of
a triable issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff
to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
However, Plaintiff did not oppose Queen of the Valley’s motion for
summary adjudication. Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to establish the existence
of a triable issue of material fact as to Queen of the Valley.
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Queen of the Valley’s
motion for summary adjudication as to this issue.
Fourth Issue – Attorney’s Fees 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021 provides: “Accept as
attorneys’ fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure mode of
compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties . . . .” Thus, as a general rule, attorneys’
fees are not recoverable as damages in a personal injury action. Attorneys’
fees are not recoverable as damages under Civil Code Sections 3281 and 3333 (Woodward
v. Bruner (1951) 104 Cal.App.2d 83, 85), nor are they recoverable as costs.
 (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1021.) 
However, Welfare & Institutions Code Section 15657(a), part of
the EADACPA, provides for the award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs in
an action for physical abuse of an elder or dependent adult if the defendant
has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission
of the abuse. That part of Section 15657 applies to events that occurred before
the statute was amended to provide for attorneys’ fees and costs. (ARA
Living Centers-Pacific, Inc. v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 1556.) 
For the same reasons mentioned above, Defendant Queen of the
Valley has met its burden showing that it was not guilty of recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of the abuse. Therefore, the
burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
However, Plaintiff did not oppose Queen of the Valley’s motion for
summary adjudication. Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to establish the existence
of a triable issue of material fact as to Queen of the Valley.
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Queen of the Valley’s
motion for summary adjudication as to this issue.
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Queen of the Valley’s motion for summary adjudication
as to Issues 1, 2, and 4. 
              Queen of the Valley is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s respective rulings within five calendar days of this
order.