

Hearing Date:             April 16,
2024
Case Name:                Aleman
v. Trinity Financial Services, LLC  
Case No.:                    21STCV21457
Motion:                       Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Moving Party:             Defendant Trinity Financial Services, LLC

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Pablo Aleman, Jr.

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion for Summary Judgment is denied. The Motion for Summary Adjudication is
granted as to sixth cause of action only. 

             
            This is a wrongful foreclosure
action in which Plaintiff Pablo Aleman Jr. (Plaintiff) sues Defendants Trinity
Financial Services, LLC (Trinity) and Barret Daffin Frappier Tredder &
Weiss, LLP (Barrett Daffin).[1]

 
According to the
pleadings, in March of 2006, Plaintiff took out a second mortgage (Subject
Loan) on his home for $82,000 which was secured by a Deed of Trust (Subject
DOT). In 2008, Plaintiff was in arrears on both his primary mortgage and the
Subject Loan. As part of a negotiated modification, Plaintiff alleges the
Subject loan was cancelled. Plaintiff further alleges that he bore the tax
consequences of the cancellation. 
 
After the Subject
Loan was cancelled in 2008, Plaintiff did not receive any statements regarding
the Subject Loan. Nor did Plaintiff receive notice that the previous trustee
had assigned its rights under the Subject DOT to Trinity. Nonetheless, on
February 5, 2021, Barrett Daffin, on behalf of Trinity, recorded a Notice of
Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust (NOD) on Plaintiff’s property.
The NOD states Plaintiff owes $157,643.19 as of February 3, 2021.
 
On October 18,
2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for (1.) promissory estoppel, (2.) unfair business practices,
(3.) wrongful foreclosure, (4.) negligent misrepresentations, (5.) violation of
Civil Code section 2924.17, (6.) violation in the truth in lending act, (7.)
violation of the federal and California Rosenthal Fair Debt Collections
Practices Act, and (8.) slander of title. 
 
The Court previously sustained Trinity’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation without leave to
amend. Trinity also moved for summary judgment or in the alternative for
summary adjudication; the Court denied the motion for summary judgment but
granted the motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for
promissory estoppel and third cause of action for wrongful foreclosure.

 
Defendant then moved
for judgment on the pleadings as to the fifth cause of action in the First
Amended Complaint. The motion was granted without leave to amend.  
 
Only the second, sixth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action remain. 
 
Now, Defendant Trinity
moves again for summary judgment or the in the alternative summary
adjudication. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
 
            The Court denies the motion for summary
judgment. The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the sixth cause
of action only. 
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice of Exhibits A-B is granted. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) Plaintiff’s objections
to the Trinity’s evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 1, 4-5 are overruled, No.
2 is sustained as to “was sent to . . . Plaintiff.”, and No. 3 is sustained.
 
            Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s
evidence are ruled on as follows: Nos. 1-2 are sustained, and Nos. 3-5 is
overruled. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
            A party
may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The
moving party has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing
of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Analysis 
            
Whether the
Subject Loan was Cancelled:
 
            Defendant Trinity moves for summary
judgment on the grounds that the evidence shows that the Subject Loan was not
cancelled. 
 
            The parties do not dispute the
following: In 2006, Plaintiff took out the Subject Loan as a junior mortgage on
his home. The Subject Loan allowed the Note to be transferred. In February
2020, Plaintiff received a letter from Barrett Daffin advising Plaintiff that
Trinity was the servicer of the Subject Loan and had authorized Barrett Daffin
to initiate foreclosure of the DOT. Before that, Trinity had never sent
Plaintiff any monthly statements or communications regarding the Loan. On
February 5, 2021, a Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust
was recorded on behalf of Trinity in connection with the Subject Loan. 
 
However,
the parties dispute whether the Subject Loan was forgiven (or cancelled) when
Plaintiff modified his senior loan in 2008. Plaintiff’s main argument is that
Defendant is seeking to foreclose on a loan that was forgiven in in 2008. 
 
Defendant
Trinity previously submitted evidence that, since purchasing the Subject Loan, it
has never seen nor been in possession of any document or record that would show
or suggest that the Subject Loan had previously cancelled. (Prior MSJ DSS 19;
DSS 20.) 
 
Further,
in the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff asserts he received a 1099-C from his
lender in the amount of the Subject Loan. (FAC ¶ 15.) However, the only Form
1099-C produced shows a cancelled debt in connection the Senior Loan – not the
Subject Loan. (Prior MSJ DSS 8-11; DSS 8-11.) Plaintiff was unable to produce a
1099-C in relation to the Subject Loan but stated that he recalls receiving
1099-C and 1098 from its lender for Subject Loan in 2008 similar to the
document regarding the Senior Loan, and also for $81,000. (Prior DSS 18, 16.)
 
On
the prior motion for summary judgment, the Court previously found –based on
this evidence – that Defendant Trinity had failed to shift its initial burden
of showing the loan was not cancelled in 2008. 
 
In
support of its renewed motion for summary judgment, Trinity notes that the only
documents produced with regard to the Subject Loan was a Form 1098 that was issued
by Regions Mortgage. (DSS 14.) Trinity further submits recently obtained
documentation from Regions Bank, which it argues undercuts Plaintiff’s claim the
Subject Loan was cancelled. The Records produced show that there was a request for
release of the Subject DOT on behalf of Plaintiff on April 3, 2020. (DSS 35.)
However, the documents – involving internal communications and communications from
Regions Bank with Plaintiff – suggest that the Subject Loan was only “charged
off.” (DSS 36-42.)  
 
As
the responsive separate statement shows, a review of the entirety of the email
communication certainly shows confusion regarding when and how Regions became a
servicer of this loan; however, the chain begins with Amy Morrison receiving
“lien release” request from Plaintiff and determination the Subject Loan was
“charged off.” 
 
Specifically,
an employee of Regions Bank, Amy Morris, sent a message to Plaintiffs’ representative
stating:
 
“I have checked with acquisitions again and they are signing that
Regions was just the servicer for this loan and that the loan would not have
been assigned to us. Citigroup instructed us to remove the loan from our system
as a charge off.” (DSS 38.) 
 
Another
internal email referencing the Subject Loan also referred to it as being
“charged off.” (DSS 40.) On May 28, 2020, Amy Morris of Regions Bank sent
Plaintiff and his representative the following email: 
 
“As per our conversation regarding this release, after
speaking with the acquisition department manager, I was incorrect with the
information that I as previously stated. Regions only serviced your loan for
Citigroup. Since, Regions was only the servicer, we cannot prepare a release
since your loan was never assigned to Regions. According to the documentation
that you sent, the servicing was transferred Litton Loan Servicing in 2008.
Litton Loan Servicing would be the one to be able to prepare the release. I do
apologize for the incorrect information that I gave you earlier this week. But
I did confirm that there was never an assignment to Regions as we were only the
servicer.” (DSS 42.)
 
Further,
notwithstanding Plaintiff’s allegation that he bore the tax consequences of the
loan cancellation (FAC ¶ 15), Plaintiff admitted in his deposition under oath
that he never reported the purported cancellation on his income tax returns for
2008. (DSS 31.) 
 
Defendant
Trinity argues that the evidence shows that Plaintiff’s Subject Loan was merely
“charged off” not cancelled.[2]

 
This
evidence is not significantly different from the evidence that was before the
Court on the prior motion for summary judgment. Even assuming that this
evidence is sufficient to shift the burden, Plaintiff has raised a triable
issue of material fact in support. 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence in opposition are that he received a Form 1098 from the servicer of
the Subject Loan, Regions Mortgage, in 2008, which indicated that the loan was
forgiven effective October 21, 2008, and that he received a 2018 Form 1099-C
for the Subject Loan cancelling the entirety of the debt, but he has been
unable to obtain a copy of the form. (Aleman Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) 
 
First
with respect to the Form 1098 evidence, the Court previously determined that the
form reflects a balance due on the loan at the end of 2008 of zero. Although
Trinity argued that a Form 1098 is not probative based on a Bankruptcy Court
decision, Aniel v. HSBC Bank (N.D. Cal. 2021) 633 B.R. 368, Plaintiff
countered that the entries in the 1098 in this case reflect no transfers of the
loan, unlike the 1098 in Aniel. Nothing has changed with respect to this
evidence. 
 
            While Trinity argues that Form 1098 is not proof of cancellation, Plaintiff’s
obligation in opposing a motion for summary judgment is to raise an inference of
triable issue of material fact. Thus, Form 1098 does not need to be “proof” of cancellation
so long as it raised the inference that there was a cancelation of the Subject
Loan. Trinity’s case authority does not negate this evidence and it provides no
new evidence on this issue. (Mot., 13:20-14:2.) While a “Form 1099-C is
significantly more probative that a loan has been discharged than a Form 1098.”
(Aniel, supra, 633 B.R. at 379), this case authority indicates
that a Form 1098 has some probative value. 
 
            Further, with respect to Plaintiff’s
claim that he received a Form 1099-C, Trinity again relies heavily on the
holding in F.D.I.C. v. Cashion (4th Cir. 2013) 720 F.3d 169 wherein the
court found that the existence of this form was insufficient to create a
triable issue of material fact in dispute regarding whether a loan had been
cancelled. (Id. at 177.)
 
            The
Court recognizes Plaintiff’s claim he received a 1099-C is even weaker
evidence than submitting the document itself; however, as the Court previously
found on the prior motion for summary judgment, “[a]lthough Trinity argues this
is not enough, Trinity’s argument is based on a Fourth Circuit ruling that is
not binding on this court. Other courts have found that a 1099-C creates a
dispute of fact.” (4/2/24 Minute Order, p. 3.)
 
            Again, nothing has materially
changed with respect to the evidence and legal authorities pertaining to the
Form 1099-C argument. 
 
            Thus, the motion for summary
judgment is denied. 
 
Sixth Cause
of Action for Truth in Lending Act (TILA):[3]
 
            Under this cause of action,
Plaintiff claims that Trinity violated TILA regulation 12 C.F.R. § 1026.41
(Section 1026.41) by either (1) failing to provide monthly statements or (2)
charging inappropriate interest and fees if the Subject Loan had been charged
off.
 
12
C.F.R Section 1026.41 provides that certain loans may qualify for exemptions
from the requirement of issuing monthly statements. Two of the exemptions are
the small servicer exemption and the charge off exemption.
 
The
small servicer exemption existed when Section 1026.41 first became effective in
January 2014. Section 1026.41(e)(4)(i) states that a “creditor, assignee, or
servicer is exempt from the requirements of this section for mortgage loans
serviced by a small servicer.” (12 C.F.R. § 1026.41(e)(4)(i).) The definition
of a small servicer includes a servicer that “[s]ervices, together with any
affiliates, 5,000 or fewer mortgage loans, for all of which the servicer (or an
affiliate) is the creditor or assignee.” (12 C.F.R. § 1026.41(e)(4)(ii)(A).)
 
            In moving for summary adjudication
of this cause of action, Trinity contends it could not violate the Truth in
Lending Act because it falls within the small servicer exception. Specifically,
Trinity submits evidence that during all relevant times it serviced 5,000 or
fewer mortgage loans. As such, Trinity was exempt from issuing monthly
statements while still permitted to charge interest and fees on the Subject
Loan.
 
            The Court previously rejected
Trinity’s motion for summary adjudication of this issue on the grounds that Trinity
only provided the essential evidence for the first time in reply. 
 
            In its moving papers, Trinity now submits
evidence that during the time in which Trinity has been the holder of the Note
and the beneficiary of the Subject Loan, Trinity, along with its affiliates,
serviced less than 5,000 mortgage loans. (DSS 25.) Moreover, Trinity only
services loan that either Trinity or Trinity’s affiliates are the creditor or
assignee of. (DSS 25.) Trinity does not service loans for compensation on
behalf of any third party that is not affiliated with Trinity. (DSS 25.) Based
on the foregoing evidence, Trinity argues it was exempt from issuing monthly
statements while still permitted to charge interest and fees on the Subject
Loan.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Trinity has not offered admissible evidence “on, whether Trojan serviced loans
on behalf of other creditors, or whether Trojan received any compensation or
fees for servicing a non-affiliate loan.” (Opp., 14:16-18.) Plaintiff specifically
argues that Trinity’s declarant, Don A. Madden III, the president of Trinity
Financial Services, LLC, offers no evidence that he is competent to testify
about Trojan’s dealings. 
 
            As noted above, the Court did not
sustain any evidentiary objections on this specific evidence. Thus, this
evidence is properly before this Court on this motion and carries Trinity’s
burden on this issue. 
 
            Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action under the
Truth in Lending Act is granted. 
 
Seventh
Cause of Action for Fair Dept Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) and the
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practice Act (RFDCPA):
 
            The FAC alleges that Trinity
violated these statutes by misrepresenting the amount of debt because it
included “interest and fees that it is federally prohibited from collecting on
the Plaintiff’s loan in its reinstatement calculation,” (2) made “other false
statements to Plaintiff regarding the amount of the Plaintiff’s debt,” and (3)
falsely represented the debt was still collectable. (FAC ¶¶ 104-106.)
 
            As the motion for summary adjudication
argues, this claim fails because it is premised on the failed violation of TILA
and because the Subject Loan had not been cancelled. 
 
            As discussed above, there remains a
triable issue of material fact with respect to whether the Subject Loan was cancelled
or not. Thus, the motion for summary adjudication of this cause of action
cannot be granted on this ground. The motion for summary adjudication of this
cause of action is denied. 
 
            Separately, Trinity argues it cannot
be liable for a violation of the FDCPA because Trinity is not “debt collector” as
a matter of law. 
            In Hepler v. Washington Mut. Bank, F.A. (C.D.
Cal., Apr. 17, 2009, No. CV 07-4804CASEX) 2009 WL 1045470, the court recognized
that the statute under the RFDCPA was broader than the FDCPA and concluded
that, under the FDCPA, “[t]he law is well-settled ... that creditors, mortgagors,
and mortgage servicing companies are not debt collectors and are
statutorily exempt from liability under the FDCPA .” (Id.  at *4 [ quoting Scott v. Wells Fargo Home
Mortg. (2003) 326 F.Supp.2d 709, 718].) 
            In opposition, Plaintiff cites Perry v. Stewart Title
Co. (5th Cir. 1985) 756 F.2d 1197, 1208 for the proposition that “[w]hether
Defendant is a debt collector under the Federal FDCPA depends on whether the
loan was in default at the time it was assigned to a debt collector and, if it
were, the servicer would be a debt collector under the Federal FDCPA.” (Opp.,
15:15-17.) 
            In Perry, the Court explained the term “ ‘debt
collector’ ” applies to a mortgage loan servicer if the servicer began
servicing the mortgage loan after the loan was in default. (Perry v. Stewart
Title Co. (5th Cir. 1985) 756 F.2d 1197, 1208; see also Randall v.
Ditech Financial, LLC (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 804, 810.) Plaintiff argues
that here it is undisputed that Plaintiff was in default when Trinity took over
servicing the Subject Loan. 
            The reply does not address this legal
authority. (Reply 10:15-20.) Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication of
this cause of action is also denied on this ground, as well. 
 
Eighth Cause
of Action for Slander of Title:
 
            The eighth cause of action for
slander of title is predicated on the Subject Loan being cancelled and
violations of TILA. (FAC ¶ 110.) Thus, for the reasons discussed above, Trinity
has not negated Plaintiff’s allegations that the Subject Loan was cancelled,
and summary adjudication of this cause of action is denied.
            Additionally, Trinity also argues that recording of
notice of default is privileged under the, litigation privilege set forth in Civil
Code section 47. (Civ. Code, § 2924, subd. (d).) Defendant Trintiy acknowledges
that this privilege is qualified and there is an exception for a suit based on
malicious prosecution. (Mot., 19:27-20:1 [citing Kachlon v. Markowitz
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 316, 336; Rubin v.
Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1193-1194.) Trinity argues, however, that the
FAC and Plaintiff’s discovery responses, here, do not allege malice by
Trinitty. 
            As a preliminary matter, the separate statement does not
address the issue of malice. Thus, summary adjudication cannot be granted as to
this issue. (City of Pasadena v. Superior Court (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238, fn. 4 [applying the Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication that “if it
is not set forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.”].)
 
 
 
            Further, the FAC does specifically allege
“Defendants acted with malice in recording the statements because they acted
without reasonable grounds for the belief the figures and statements were
accurate.” (FAC ¶ 112.)
 
            The motion for summary adjudication
of this cause of action is denied. 
 
Second
Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices:
 
In
moving for summary adjudication, Trinity argues this cause of action is based
upon the same defective arguments raised in the other causes of action. Therefore,
for the all the reasons stated above, Plaintiff has failed to establish that
Trinity violated Section 17200 or engaged in any unlawful business practices.
 
For
the reasons stated above, there is a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the Subject Laon was cancelled. This issue is sufficient to state a
claim under Section 17200. 
 
Thus,
the motion for summary adjudication of this cause of action is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Motion for Summary Judgment is
denied. The motion for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action for
violations of TILA is granted,
and otherwise denied. 


