 Case Number:  23STCV02179    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
LEE NEWSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV02179
  Hearing Date:  September 27, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s pitchess motion 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Lee
Newson filed this action against Defendant City of Los Angeles, asserting (1)
disability discrimination, (2) workplace harassment, (3) retaliation, and (4)
failure to prevent. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he was prevented
from promotion to detective due to discrimination against his disabilities.
Plaintiff alleges that he was falsely accused of DUI and arrested because
Defendant is aware he takes prescribed medication for prior injuries and
conditions. Defendant allegedly used this as a pretext to block Plaintiff’s
promotion to detective. Plaintiff was ultimately suspended for 22 days without
pay. Upon return, Plaintiff was involuntarily transferred to a different
station. 
            Plaintiff presently seeks to obtain
the following records: (1) records on the investigation that culminated in
Plaintiff’s DUI arrest; (2) records on another investigation regarding a
supervisor’s accusation against Plaintiff for illegally recording a conversation;
and (3) investigation records pertaining to any discrimination complaints
against the two decisionmakers allegedly responsible for discriminating against
Plaintiff. 
            Plaintiff filed the instant Pitchess
motion on August 30, 2023. Defendant filed its opposition on September 13,
2023. Plaintiff filed his reply on September 20, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
In general, the personnel records of peace
officers are protected from discovery pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The
exclusive means for obtaining these materials is through a Pitchess motion. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1611.) A
Pitchess motion shall (1) identify the proceeding in which discovery or
disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or
custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has
custody and control of the record, and the time and place at which the motion
for discovery or disclosure shall be heard, (2) describe the type of records or
information sought, and (3) present affidavits showing good cause for the
discovery or disclosure sought. (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)
The standard of “good cause” required for
Pitchess disclosure is “relatively relaxed” to “insure the production” for
trial court review of “all potentially relevant documents.” (People v.
Gaines (2009) 46 Cal.4th 172, 179.) Good cause for discovery exists when
the party shows (1) materiality to the subject matter of the pending litigation
and (2) a reasonable belief that the agency has the type of information sought.
(Becerrada v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 409, 413.) A
sufficient threshold showing is established if the party seeking records
demonstrates through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Riske
v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655.)
If the trial court finds good cause for
the discovery, it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only
that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of relevance.
(Evid. Code, § 1045; Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011,
1027.) 
DISCUSSION
            “[T]he relevancy of an investigation
of the incident that is the basis for the lawsuit is self-evident.” (Haggerty
v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087.) Plaintiff has established
good cause for the investigations into himself because they serve as the basis
for his lawsuit. Plaintiff alleges that he was falsely investigated as pretext to
prevent his promotion and as retaliation. Therefore, these investigations are
directly relevant. 
            “Me too” evidence may be used to
establish a defendant’s discriminatory intent. (Pantoja v. Anton (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 87, 115.) Therefore, Plaintiff is also entitled to
investigations related to other complaints of discrimination, retaliation, or
harassment against the pertinent decisionmakers. 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff is
not entitled to the requested records because Plaintiff does not contend that
the investigations were improper. Defendant cites no authority for the
proposition that investigation records are only relevant if the propriety of
the investigation is challenged. The investigation files may contain relevant
evidence of discriminatory intent regardless of whether Plaintiff contends the
investigations were conducted properly. In any case, Plaintiff does contend
that the DUI and recording investigations were improper. Plaintiff claims those
investigations were used as pretext to prevent his promotion and as retaliation
for his protected activity. 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff is at
most entitled to records of investigations with sustained allegations of
discrimination. Defendant contends that investigations involving unfounded
allegations are not material as “me too” evidence. Defendant cites no authority
for this proposition. Files on an investigation may contain relevant evidence
of discriminatory intent regardless of the particular outcome of that investigation.
Plaintiff did not admit that only sustained allegations are relevant. Plaintiff
merely argued that files related to sustained allegations may be obtained even
without a Pitchess motion because they are considered “not confidential” under
Penal Code section 832.7(b)(1)(D). However, Plaintiff is filing a Pitchess
motion and may therefore obtain records that would otherwise be confidential,
including records related to non-sustained allegations. 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
sufficiently articulated good cause for the requested records.    
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s Pitchess motion is
GRANTED. Plaintiff is entitled to the complete investigation files for CF Nos.
21-001611 and 22-002011. Records pertaining to third-party complaints against
the decisionmakers are limited to the previous five years (2018 to present). The
Court will conduct an in-camera review in accordance with statutory
requirements. The production shall be subject to a protective order.
 