  Case Number:  21STCV18687    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  12, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV18687




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication on Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Sayaco Partnership




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant
  A Plus Fabric, Inc.  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication
on Sayaco’s Cross Complaint 
2.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities
3.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
4.      Declaration of Ben Sayani 
5.      Declaration of Artin Avetisove
6.      Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication
2.      Separate Statement in Opposition
3.      Declaration of Jeff Esguerra
4.      Declaration of Benjamin Thompson
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Reply to A Plus Fabric’s Opposition
2.      Objections to Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 18, 2021, Plaintiff
Kamran Massachi (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Sayaco
Partnership (Sayaco) and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability.
Plaintiff alleges a rolling metal gate fell on him on property owned by Sayaco
at 2080 Belgrave Avenue, Huntington Park, California. Plaintiff alleges the
incident took place on April 30, 2021. 
 
On July 26, 2021, Sayaco filed
a cross-complaint against Roes 1 to 20 alleging causes of action for express
indemnification, equitable indemnification, equitable contribution, and
declaratory relief. On March 23, 2022, Sayaco added Cross-Defendant A Plus
Fabric, Inc. (APF) as Roe 1. APF filed an answer to the cross-complaint on June
20, 2022. 
 
Sayaco now moves for summary
adjudication against APF towards its express indemnification and declaratory
relief causes of action arguing that APF owes a contractual duty to indemnify
and defend Plaintiff’s action on Sayaco’s behalf. APF opposes. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) “[T]he party moving
for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable
issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards
held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be
granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
“Parties to a contract, . . . , may define therein their duties toward one another in the
event of a third party claim against one or both arising out of their
relationship.  Terms of this kind may require one party to indemnify the
other, under specified circumstances, for moneys paid or expenses incurred by
the latter as a result of such claims. (Citation omitted.) They may also assign
one party, pursuant to the contract's language, responsibility for the other's legal
defense when a third
party claim is made against the latter.” 
(Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 551 [citation
omitted, emphasis in original] [hereafter, Crawford].)  
“In noninsurance contexts, . . . it is the indemnitee who may often
have the superior bargaining power, and who may use this power unfairly to
shift to another a disproportionate share of the financial consequences of its
own legal fault. [citations.] This public policy concern influences to some
degree the manner in which noninsurance indemnity agreements are construed. For
example, it has been said that if one seeks, in a noninsurance agreement, to be
indemnified for his or her own active negligence, or regardless of the
indemnitor's fault—protections beyond those afforded by the doctrines of
implied or equitable indemnity—language on the point must be particularly clear
and explicit, and will be construed strictly against the indemnitee.” (Id.
at 552.)  
“[T]he [indemnitor’s] duty to defend is broader than its
duty to indemnify.  The latter duty runs only to claims that are actually covered
by the [agreement], while the duty to defend extends to claims that are merely
potentially covered.  The [indemnitor’s] defense duty is a continuing one,
arising on tender of defense and lasting until the underlying lawsuit is
concluded, or until it has been shown that there is no potential for
coverage.”  (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 547 [citations and
quotations omitted, emphasis in original].)  Further, “a contractual
promise to “defend” another against specified claims clearly connotes an
obligation of active responsibility, from the outset, for the promisee’s defense against
such claims.  The duty promised is to render, or fund, the service of
providing a defense on the promisee’s behalf — a duty that necessarily arises as soon as such
claims are made against the promisee, and may continue until they have been resolved.”  (Id.
at pp. 553–554.)   
 
Equally important, “If not forbidden by other, more
specific, statutes, the obligations set forth in [Civil Code] section 2778 thus
are deemed included in every indemnity agreement unless the parties indicate
otherwise.”  (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 553.)  Civil
Code section 2778 provides, in pertinent part:              
 
3. An
indemnity against claims, or demands, or liability, expressly, or in other
equivalent terms, embraces the costs of defense against such claims, demands,
or liability incurred in good faith, and in the exercise of a reasonable
discretion;
 
4.
The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the person indemnified, to
defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter in respect to the
matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified has the right to
conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so; 
 
5.
If, after request, the person indemnifying neglects to defend the person
indemnified, a recovery against the latter suffered by him in good faith, is
conclusive in his favor against the former 
 
(Civ. Code § 2778, subds. (3)–(5).)  “By virtue of
these statutory provisions, the case law has long confirmed that, unless the
parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual indemnitor has
the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the
indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity
provision. Where the indemnitor has breached this obligation, an indemnitee who
was thereby forced, against its wishes, to defend itself is entitled to reimbursement
of the costs of doing so.” (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 555.)  Moreover, 
 
Implicit in
this understanding of the duty to defend an indemnitee against all claims
“embraced by the indemnity,” as specified in subdivision 4 of section 2778, is
that the duty arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by the
indemnitee, and thus before the litigation to be defended has determined
whether indemnity is actually owed.  This duty, as described in the statute, therefore
cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation.  It follows that, under
subdivision 4 of section 2778, claims “embraced by the indemnity,” as to which
the duty to defend is owed, include those which, at the time of tender, allege
facts that would give rise to a duty of indemnity.  Unless the indemnity
agreement states otherwise, the statutorily described duty “to defend” the
indemnitee upon tender of the defense thus extends to all such claims.”  (Id.
at p. 558.) 
 
Whether a duty to defend arises from an indemnity agreement
is question of law for a court.  (See Centex Homes v. R-Help
Construction Co., Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 1230 (“the duty to defend was
not a question of fact for the jury; the trial court was compelled to determine
[that issue of duty] as a matter of law”].) In Centex Homes, the court
rejected the promisee’s argument that “the question of scope of work under the
subcontract may be resolved independently of the underlying tort action,”
because the court found that the scope of work was an issue in the underlying
tort action, and therefore, the duty to defend arose “as a matter of law from
the mere allegation in the underlying tort action that plaintiff’s injuries
arose out of R-Help’s work.” (Id. at 1236.)  
 
The duty to defend continues until the underlying lawsuit
is concluded “or until it has been shown that there is no potential for
coverage.” (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior Court (1993) 6 Cal.4th
287, 295 (emphasis in original).) “To prevail, the
insured must prove the existence of a potential for coverage, while the
insurer must establish the absence of any such potential. In other
words, the insured need only show that the underlying claim may fall
within policy coverage; the insurer must prove it cannot.” (Id.
at 300 (emphasis in original).) Doubt about an insurer’s duty to defend
generally must be resolved in the insured’s favor. (Id.)
 
Here, Sayaco offers the following
facts: 
 
-         
Sayaco, an owner of the Property, leased Subject
Property to APF on or about October 29, 2020 pursuant to a written lease. (UMF
6.) 
-         
At the time lease was entered into between Sayaco and
APD, the subject gate was fully functional.[1]
(UMF 9.)
-         
Plaintiff started working for APF 27 months prior to
the incident. (UMF 10.) 
-         
Plaintiff started working at the Subject Property for
APF toward the end of 2020. (UMF 11.) 
-         
The gate that fell on Plaintiff was damaged sometime in
February 2021. (UMF 12.) 
-         
The gate was damaged as a result of an APF employee,
“Hector,” driving a truck that was too heavily loaded over the gate railing,
causing the muffler or some other portion of the truck to damage the railing,
approximately three months before the incident. (UMF 13.)
-         
The gate was not damaged when Plaintiff first started
working at the Subject Property toward the end of 2020. (UMF 14.) 
-         
Plaintiff had no difficulty opening or closing the gate
prior to the time it was damaged in February 2021. (UMF 15.) 
 
Paragraph 10 of the Lease
Agreement states in pertinent part:
 
“Landlord shall be defended,
indemnified and held harmless by Tenant from any liabilities, costs, expenses,
and for damages to any person or any property in or upon the Leased Premises
and/or building, including the property of Tenant, and its employees and all
persons in the Building at its or their invitation or with their consent. All
property kept, stored or maintained in the Leased Premises shall be so kept,
stored or maintained at the risk of the Tenant only. Tenant shall not suffer or
give cause for the filing of any lien against the Leased Premises. Landlord and
Tenant shall hold each other harmless from any liability or damages to any
person or property in any common areas of the Leased Premises on account of the
negligence of the other party or its employees, agents or invitees.” (UMF 7.) 
 
Here, the language in paragraph 10
is clear and explicit by stating “Landlord shall be defended, indemnified and
held harmless by Tenant from any liabilities, costs, expenses, and for damages
to any person or any property in or upon the Leased Premises and/or building.”
(UMF 7.) The parties do not dispute that they entered into this agreement.
Therefore, Sayaco has met its burden that APF owes a contractual duty to indemnify and defend Plaintiff’s action. Sayaco
has also met its burden showing that the subject gate was working properly
before an APF vehicle damaged the gate rail in February 2021. (Sayaco Exh. F,
Massachi Depo,. 31:22–32:22.) The burden shifts to APF. 
 
APF argues there is a triable issue
of fact of whether the gate was a “structural component of leased premises” and
thus the responsibility of Sayaco. For this assertion, APF points to paragraph
7A of the Lease Agreement which states: 
 
“Maintenance and Repair. Tenant
shall keep the interior of the Leased Premises and any improvements therein in
good condition and repair, at its own expense including, but not limited to,
light bulb replacement, ballast replacement, plumbing repairs, glass
replacement, repairs to entry doors and all mechanical systems (HVAC). Landlord
shall be responsible for structural components of the Leased Premises, except
for repairs and maintenance required on the account of the intentional acts or
negligence of the Tenant. Tenant shall operate all heating, ventilating,
cooling, electrical and plumbing systems only in accordance with the procedures
for the proper operation of the same. At the expiration of the tenancy created
hereunder, Tenant shall surrender the Leased Premises in as good condition as
when taken, reasonable wear and tear, loss by fire or other unavoidable
casualty, excepted.” (UMF 8 [emphasis added].)
 
APF appears to argue that paragraph
7A of the Lease should be interpreted as an exception to the indemnity/defense
provision in paragraph 10. APF cites Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771 for the
assertion that a commercial landowner cannot abrogate its responsibilities
simply by signing a lease. (Id. at 781.) However, Mora did not involve an
indemnity agreement. 
 
APF also disputes whether removal
of the metal strip caused the door to fall and notes that Sayaco did not
produce expert testimony establishing that APF’s conduct caused it to fall.
(Opp., 14.) As a result, APF argues that because Sayaco is responsible for the
gate falling, the law should not allow Sayaco to avoid liability by contract. Sayaco
acknowledges that the indemnity provision expressly provides that “Landlord and
Tenant shall hold each other harmless from any liability or damages to any
person or property in any common areas of the Leased Premises on account of the
negligence of the other party or its employees, agents or invitees.” (Reply at
p. 5.)
 
APF offers the following facts: 
 
-         
Plaintiff testified that the gate could still be used
after the rail was removed, and that the gate continued to be used for three or
four months prior to the subject incident. (PAMF 1.)
-         
The large metal gate was designed to roll right and
left to open and close so that delivery trucks could enter and leave the
building. The gate was intended always to be up against the building, and never
swing away from the property. Accordingly, the fact that the gate fell away
from the building speaks to a design flaw. (PAMF 2.)
-         
The gate under consideration is massive, as it occupies
a height nearly half the height of the building it was constructed to protect,
and is comprised of four substantial segments that, in total, appear to be
longer than an average sized vehicle. Thus, the gate was a part of the leased
premises’ structure. (PAMF 3.)
-         
Plaintiff testified: “the third time, when we pushed
back and we pulled the gate, the gate jumped the rail towards the sidewalk,
meaning me, and came off the rail. And the gate, this heavy gate – this heavy
gate, it fell towards me.” What caused the gate to fall requires expert
testimony.[2]
(PAMF 4.)
-         
Plaintiff testified that he told a Sayaco
representative about the fact that the railing was removed from the gate, so
Sayaco was aware of, and in a position to do something about, the fact that the
gate had been altered in the months prior to the subject incident. Accordingly,
Sayaco cannot simply point the finger at APF for removing the flimsy metal rail
that the gate rested upon, because Plaintiff told Sayaco about the development
and Sayaco did nothing to correct it. (PAMF 8.) 
 
Here, APF does not present any
evidence showing that the subject gate fell due to Sayaco’s negligence. The
deposition testimony by Plaintiff, which APF offers, does not create a triable
issue of fact as to whether the gate fell due to an inherent design flaw. APF has
not set forth evidence to create a triable issue of fact that the cause of the
gate falling on Plaintiff was other than the February 2021 damage caused by an
APF employee.[3] Therefore,
even if the gate was a structural component, APF has not disputed with evidence
that it was not caused by its negligence. 
 
As such, considering the evidence
in the light most favorable to APF and all reasonable inferences, there is no
triable issue of material fact that the indemnity provision does not require
APF to defend and indemnity Sayaco. Paragraph 10 states that Sayaco shall be
“defended, indemnified and held harmless by Tenant from any liabilities, costs,
expenses, and for damages to any person…in or upon the Leased Premises and/ or
building…and its employees.” (UMF 7.) The language broadly covers all
liabilities and damages to any person.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the
Lease Agreement entered between Sayaco and APF requires APF to indemnify and
defend Plaintiff’s action on behalf of Sayaco. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Sayaco
Partnership’s Motion for Summary Adjudication on its cross complaint is GRANTED.

 
            Sayaco Partnership shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


