 Case Number:  22STCV24673    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  12, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24673




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Agustin Carrera Perez’s Deposition and Produce
  Documents
(2)  
  Compel Lilia Martinez’s Deposition and Produce
  Documents
(3)  
  Compel Rigoberto Carrera Trejo’s Deposition and
  Produce Documents  




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Setayesh Eftetahi 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Setayesh Eftetahi
(Plaintiff) moves to compel the depositions of Defendants Agustin Carrera
Perez, Rigoberto Carrera Trejo and Lilia Martinez (Defendants) and to compel
the production of documents. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions,
by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
 
The party served with a deposition notice waives any
error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at
least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (a).)  In addition to serving this
written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section §
2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid
objection was served under §2025.410. The objecting party has the burden to
justify objections asserted. (See Denari v. Superior Court (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494-95.) 
No meet and confer is required to
compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a declaration
showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance.  (Code Civ.
Proc. §2025.450(b)(2).)  "Implicit in the requirement that
counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a
requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issue," including by rescheduling.  (Leko
v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff contends that
Defendants were served with Notices of Deposition on August 11, 2023, after
various attempts beginning on April 21, 2023 to schedule the depositions with
counsel for Defendants. (Hashemi Dec. ¶ 8.) On August 17, 2023, counsel for
Defendants stated that none of the deponents would appear. (Id. ¶ 9.) Lilia
Martinez and Rigoberto Carrera Trejo served an objection on August 18, 2023
that the depositions were unilaterally set, among other things, and providing times
for availability at 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any weekday. (Hashemi Dec., Ex.
6.) None of the deponents appeared for deposition. 
 
As to Defendant Agustin Carrera Perez, no objections were served and
the Court therefore grants the motion to compel. 
 
As to Defendants Lilia Martinez and Rigoberto Carrera Trejo, the Court
denies the motion because objections were timely served. However, the Court
admonishes counsel for Defendants that counsel must promptly provide alternate
dates and times that provide for a full day of deposition for Lilia Martinez
and Rigoberto Carrera Trejo, unless counsel for Plaintiff otherwise agrees to a
shortened schedule.
 
            Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions
against each defendant in the amount of $1,860 based on a billing rate of $600
per hour and the $60 filing fee. The Court finds that sanctions are warranted
as to Defendant Agustin Carrera, but concludes that the amount requested is
excessive given the nature of the motion and the lack of an opposition. Accordingly,
the Court awards sanctions as to in the amount of $660 (1 hour of attorney time
plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Agustin
Carrera Perez is GRANTED. Defendant Perez must appear for deposition within 30
days. The Motions to Compel the Depositions of Lilia Martinez and Rigoberto
Carrera Trejo are DENIED.
 
The Court awards monetary sanctions to Plaintiff as to Defendant Agustin
Carrera Perez and counsel, jointly and severally in the amount of $660. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of
the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 