 Case Number:  23STCV09197    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  12, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV09197




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Dismiss




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles (Defendant) moves to dismiss Plaintiff
Jessica Margarita Martinez’s (Plaintiff, in pro per) complaint for failing to
serve and file an amended complaint after the Court granted leave to amend. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The
Court may dismiss a complaint as to a particular defendant if, after a demurrer
to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend
within the time allowed by the court and either party moves for dismissal.
(Code Civ. Proc. section 581, subd. (f)(2).)¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend within 30
days on July 28, 2023. (Min. Order, 7/28/23.) Defendant served and filed a
notice of the ruling to Plaintiff on August 1, 2023 via United States Mail and
e-mail. Defendant filed this motion on November 9, 2023. Therefore, because
Plaintiff has not filed a first amended complaint within the time provided by
the Court, the motion to dismiss is granted without prejudice. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint is GRANTED
without prejudice. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 