 Case Number:  21STCV12304    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
AVA WELSING-KITCHER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KARPLUS WAREHOUSE, INC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV12304
  Hearing Date:  January 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff Ava
Welsing-Kitcher filed this action against Defendants Karplus Warehouse, Inc.
and The Western Surety Company, asserting claims arising from Plaintiff’s
purchase of a Hyundai vehicle. Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint on
July 31, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that the dealer failed to transfer title to
her as promised. As a result, Plaintiff was unable to sell the vehicle. By the
time Plaintiff received the title, the vehicle had decreased in value.
Plaintiff also alleges that the vehicle had not been previously used as a
rental as the dealer represented, but was instead used as a rideshare. 
            On November 27, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy
and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….”
(Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration
bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of an Agreement to Arbitrate
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, quoting Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-44.) 
Here, Plaintiff signed a sale contract
containing an arbitration provision and additionally signed an addendum providing
that the arbitration would proceed through the American Arbitration Association
(AAA). (Pichvai Decl., Ex. A, B.) Therefore, Defendants have satisfied their
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement. 
II.
Arbitration Provider
            Plaintiff refused to arbitrate
before AAA and indicated that she would only submit to arbitration before JAMS
or “other organizations.” (Pichvai Decl., Ex. F, H.) The sale contract provides
that Plaintiff “may choose the American Arbitration Association . . . or any other
organization to conduct the arbitration subject to [Defendants’] approval.” (Id.,
Ex. A.) However, Plaintiff signed an addendum providing that the parties “agree
to resolve that dispute with the American Arbitration Association.” (Id.,
Ex. B.) Plaintiff cannot renege on her express agreement to arbitrate before
AAA.
            Even if the original term in the
sale contract controlled, meaning Plaintiff could choose AAA or “any other
organization,” Plaintiff’s choice would be subject to Defendants’ approval.
(See Pichvai Decl., Ex. A.) In other words, the contract provides Defendants
with the ultimate discretion over the arbitration provider. There is no
indication that Defendants have selected AAA in bad faith. (See Third Story
Music, Inc. v. Waits (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 798, 804 [“a discretionary power
must be exercised in good faith”].) Therefore, the claims are subject to
arbitration before AAA under both the original sale contract and the addendum. 
            Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the
motion constitutes a concession that her claims must be arbitrated before AAA. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 
 