 Case Number:  23STCV16789    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SIEDAH GARRETT, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ADVANCE HOME IMPROVEMENT, INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV16789
  Hearing Date:  January 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Siedah
Garrett and Erik Nuri filed this action against Defendants Advance Home
Improvement, Inc., Moorpark USA, LLC, and Amnon Edri. The complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of statutory standards
in construction, (3) negligence, (4) breach of subcontracts, (5) intentional
misrepresentation, (6) fraudulent concealment, and (7) negligent misrepresentation.
            On October 6, 2023, the Court partially
sustained a demurrer to the complaint, giving Plaintiffs leave to amend their
claims for intentional and negligent misrepresentation. On October 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint, asserting the same
seven causes of action.   
            Plaintiffs own and resided in the
subject property located in Los Angeles before they were allegedly displaced by
construction defects. Plaintiffs bring this action against the developer
(Advance Home Improvement, Inc.), seller (Moorpark USA, LLC), and CEO of the
developer (Amnon Edri). Plaintiffs allege that they entered into a Residential Purchase
Agreement (RPA) with Seller on May 4, 2016. Under the RPA, Seller was required
to disclose all material defects with the property. Seller also represented in
a New Construction Property Disclosure Statement (NCDS) that the property has
been designed to properly accommodate water runoff and that construction will
occur in conformance with specifications. Plaintiffs allege that after taking
possession, they discovered various defects, including water intrusion, faulty
plumbing, loose tiles, malfunctioning windows, poorly installed shelving,
dangerous electrical installations, and poor waterproofing.
            Plaintiffs allege that they notified
Seller and Developer of the defects but that Defendants responded with ineffective
repairs and failed to identify the cause of the water intrusion. Defendants
allegedly failed to make the proper repairs despite making assurances and
caused more damage in the process. Defendants allegedly represented orally and
in writing that they would make all of the necessary repairs. Plaintiffs allege
that they reasonably relied on Defendants’ representations and delayed pursuing
legal remedies. 
            On November 27, 2023, Defendants
Advance Home Improvement, Inc. and Amnon Edri (Developer and its CEO) filed the
instant motion to strike punitive damages in the FAC. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on December 21, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Hampton
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
Defendants seek
to strike the punitive damage allegations pertaining to the fifth and sixth
causes of action for intentional misrepresentation and fraudulent concealment.
(Mtn. 2:13-25.) Defendants argue that the complaint contains no facts
demonstrating malice. However, fraud is an independent basis for punitive
damages. (See Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).) In fact, the Court held in the prior
demurrer that the fraudulent concealment allegations were sufficient to support
punitive damages. (October 6, 2023 Order re Demurrer 8:5-9.) Defendants do not
challenge the sufficiency of the intentional misrepresentation claim, which also
supports punitive damages.   
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 