 Case Number:  24NNCV01700    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LUCINDA SKY, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COUNTY
   OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01700
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   19, 2024




 


)


 



 
          On July 8,
2024, plaintiff Lucinda Sky (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for leave to amend
her complaint and for defendant CALVCB to “cooperate.” Plaintiff subsequently
filed several ex parte applications seeking an extension of time to amend her
complaint.  The extensions were granted
and on August 6, 2024, the Court ordered Plaintiff to amend the complaint
within 20 days. 
          On August 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. Therefore, the request for
leave to file an amended complaint is MOOT. The remainder of Plaintiff’s
motion, which seeks assistance from CalVCB including an emergency vehicle,
funds to purchase surveillance camera equipment, medicine, and housing, is also
MOOT because CalVCB is no longer a named defendant in this action. And, even if
CalVCB were a defendant, Plaintiff provides no authority for the Court to grant
her requests for various forms of assistance.
 
Dated
this 19th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 