  Case Number:  24VECP00233    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  W DEAN GETTLESON
vs MERVAT KELADA
 
petitioner’s
motion to compel arbitration 
 
Date of Hearing:        November
25, 2024                          Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECP00233
 
Moving Party:            Petitioner Dean Gettleson
Responding Party:     Respondent Mervat Kelada
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a petition to compel
arbitration. Plaintiff Dean Gettleson filed the petition on June 5, 2024. Although
mislabeled as a petition to confirm an arbitration award, the petition is in
fact a petition to enforce an arbitration agreement.  A party may file a petition to enforce an
arbitration agreement as an independent lawsuit if there is no pending lawsuit;
otherwise, the party must file the petition in the pending lawsuit. West's
Ann.Cal.C.C.P. §§ 1281.2, 1292.4.” (Frog Creek Partners, LLC v. Vance Brown,
Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 515.) 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Petitioner Dean Gettleson filed this
petition to compel arbitration from the Superior Court. Mr. Gettleson states
there is a valid arbitration agreement between himself and his former client,
Respondent Mervat Kelada. Specifically, there is a written retainer agreement
between the parties. Mr. Gettleson had filed a petition for arbitration under
the arbitration clause of the Retainer Agreement with the Los Angeles County
Bar Association. However, Ms. Kelada has failed to respond or submit to Mr.
Gettleson’s demand to arbitrate. 
 
In opposition, Ms. Kelada argues Mr.
Gettleson has already taken her to small claims court. (Exh. G.) In that
matter, the court stated it was “not convinced Ms. Kelada received notice of
her right to arbitration[]” and dismissed the action without prejudice.  (Exh. G.) The court noted this decision was
based on failure to comply with the State Bar’s mandatory form: Notice of
Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration pursuant to Business and Professions Code §
6200 et seq. The court did not express any opinion as to the arbitration
clause’s scope or enforceability. Upon filing a complaint with the State Bar,
the State Bar found Mr. Gettleson failed to provide Ms. Kelada with a notice of
her right to arbitration and issued Mr. Gettleson a warning letter.  
 
However, the denial by the small claims
court or decision by the State Bar does not prevent Mr. Gettleson from
petitioning this court to compel arbitration. The small claims court dismissed
the action without prejudice for Mr. Gettleson’s failure to comply with
Business and Professions Code section 6201(a). The State Bar’s decision to send
a warning letter does not preclude Mr. Gettleson from arbitrating claims. Mr.
Gettleson has provided a copy of a now served Notice of Client’s Right to Fee
Arbitration compliant with Business and Professions Code section 6201. (See
Petition, Exh. 7.) 
 
From the records, it appears Ms. Kelada
did not waive her rights under the Mandatory Fee Arbitration Act (“MFAA”),
which gives an attorney’s client the right to go to nonbinding arbitration
before a local or state bar association in an attempt to resolve a fee dispute.
However, it appears Ms. Kelada has also not invoked her rights under the MFAA.
As noted by the court in Aguilar v. Lerner (2004) 32 Cal.4th 974, “in
the typical MFAA case, the client receives the mandated statutory notice
pursuant to section 6201, subdivision (a) and thereafter expressly chooses
either to proceed under the MFAA or not. If the client chooses to arbitrate
“under this article” (i.e., pursuant to the MFAA), the client has the right to
do so whether or not the parties had also executed an arbitration agreement. If
the client fails to invoke his or her rights under the MFAA, such rights are waived
entirely and … the preexisting arbitration agreement is enforceable against the
client, with no residual MFAA protections standing as an obstacle.”
 
Unlike the client in Aguilar where
they filed a malpractice lawsuit against their former attorney, Ms. Kelada has
only filed a motion to transfer venue. A motion to transfer venues is not “(1)
Judicial resolution of a fee dispute to which this article applies or (2)
Affirmative relief against the attorney for damages or otherwise based upon
alleged malpractice or professional misconduct.” (Bus. & Prof. Code
§6201(d).) 
 
Here, Mr. Gettleson seeks to enforce
the arbitration agreement in the retainer agreement signed by Ms. Kelada.  That provision merely states that claims will
be subject to arbitration.  There is no
description of the type of arbitration, by whom it would be conducted, who
would pay the costs, or any other matter relevant to arbitration.  The agreement also does not notify Ms. Kalada
that she is giving up her right to a jury trial.  In the absence of any of these terms, the
court finds that the agreement is so lacking in specifics and information as to
be unenforceable.   Moreover, Mr.
Gettleson has waived the right to arbitrate by initiating a small claims action
against Ms. Kelada.  
 
 