  Case Number:  21STCV37556    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-9-24
Case #21STCV37556,
Hamid Reza Mirshojae, et al. vs. 5975-5999 Topanga Canyon Blvd LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Hamid Reza Mirshojae and Woodland Hills Medical Clinic II, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants 5975-5999 Topanga Canyon Blvd, LLC and Ahang Mirshojae
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs are requesting
attorney fees in the amount of $619,675, plus $17,036.01
in costs, from Defendants
 
RULING: Motion
for attorney fees is granted at a reduced amount. No costs will be awarded at
this time.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Hamid
Reza Mirshojae (Hamid) and Defendant Ahang Zarin Mirshojae (Ahang) were formerly
married and were engaged in extensive and bitter litigation against each other before
2017. The assets in dispute were more than $20 million. At mediation, Hamid and
Ahang entered a complex settlement agreement. Immediately after, Hamid alleges
that Ahang breached the settlement agreement, and he was forced to incur
attorney fees to enforce various terms of the agreement. Eventually, Hamid sued
Ahang in October 2021 to enforce the settlement agreement.
 
Ahang accused
Hamid and his counsel of inducing her to sign the settlement agreement and she
eventually cross complained against him for $7 million in damages. This Court
eventually struck Ahang’s cross-complaint based on Plaintiffs’ anti-SLAPP
motion and determined that Ahang was a vexatious litigant. After this ruling,
Ahang attempted to disqualify Hamid’s lead counsel, though that motion was
rejected. Hamid alleges that he has incurred significant legal fees over the
course of this litigation.
 
In November
2023, after two years of litigation, Hamid accepted cross defendant’s offer to
settle pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 998 (hereafter Section 998.)
 The offer required Ahang to pay Hamid $270,000,
with his reasonable attorney’s fees and costs to be determined by the Court. Plaintiffs
Hamid and Woodland Hills Medical Clinic II, Inc. (Plaintiffs) now seek to
recover those fees in the requested amount of $619,675. Plaintiffs seek the
fees from both Defendants Ahang and 5975-5999 Topanga Canyon Blvd, LLC
(Defendants).
 
Plaintiffs contend
this amount is reasonable. Their request is based primarily on declarations from
his lead attorney, Christopher Beatty, other attorneys who worked on the case, and
billing statements (with some redactions) that show which attorney worked on a
task, what the task was, and how much time was spent on the task. (Beatty
Decl., Ex. H.) The Beatty Declaration also includes a table which shows the
hourly rates of the attorneys who worked on the case and their hourly rates at
different times. (Beatty Decl., ¶ 35.)
 
Christopher
Beatty’s hourly rates were $950 (for 2.5 hours in 2021), $975 (for 19.2 hours
in 2022), and $1,300 (for 1.5 hours in 2022 and 71.6 hours in 2023). Tami K.
Sims’ hourly rate was $1,115 (for 83.4 hours in 2023). Trevor T. Garney’s
hourly rate was $955 (for 87.8 hours in 2023). Arron J. Pak’s hourly rate was
$705 (for 277.3 hours in 2023). Minh-Van Do’s hourly rates were $795 (for 0.5
hours in 2021) and $840 (for 76.1 hours in 2022). Benjamin Mandel’s hourly rate
was $595 (for 89.6 hours in 2022). Finally, Scarlet Speakmore’s hourly rate was
$350 (for 38.8 hours in 2022).
 
The total
lodestar was calculated by multiplying each of these attorneys’ hourly rates by
their hours worked then adding them all together, for a total of 784.3 hours.
The lodestar amount, as previously noted, is $619,675.
 
Plaintiffs have
also requested costs in the amount $17,036.01. However, costs are awarded
pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700. If Plaintiffs wish to
request costs, Plaintiffs should file a memorandum of costs at the appropriate
time.
 
Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Keith M. Maziarek:
            Sustained: Entire Declaration
(irrelevant), Paragraph 11
            Overruled: None
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of June D. Coleman and the
Declaration of Raffi Kassabian: The individual evidentiary objections presented
by Plaintiffs to these two declarations are not consecutively numbered.
Typically, when written objections to evidence are filed, the “written
objection must be number consecutively.” (See Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1354
(applies to written objections to evidence for summary judgment motions).)
While Plaintiffs listed them by paragraph number from the declarations, this is
not necessarily effective, because in some instances Plaintiffs objected to
different sentences from the same paragraph and listed them separately with the
same paragraph number. The Court will not rule on the individual evidentiary
objections based on this procedural deficiency. Plaintiffs have objected to the
entire Coleman Declaration on the basis that it is improper expert testimony
because Coleman has not shown any special knowledge, skill, etc., related to
billing for these types of cases pursuant to Evidence Code § 720. The Court
agrees. Plaintiffs’ objection to the entire Coleman Declaration is sustained.
 
ANALYSIS
As noted,
Plaintiffs are entitled to recover their attorney’s fees under the terms of the
section 998 offer that they accepted. Defendants oppose Plaintiffs’ motion on
the basis that Plaintiffs agreed only to recover fees actually incurred and
according to proof in the 998 Offer, and Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have
not provided this proof. Defendants point out that the billing statements
provided by Plaintiffs redacted the actual hourly rates and amounts billed to
Plaintiffs, making it impossible to determine the actual fees incurred. (See
Beatty Decl., Ex. H.) Instead, Plaintiffs just provided a chart that states the
hourly rate of the different attorneys that worked on the case with their total
hours worked. (See Beatty Decl., ¶ 35.) Because of the redactions, Defendants argue
that they and the Court have no way of knowing how much the attorneys worked or
what their billing rates were at the time they did the work. Defendants cited San
Dieguito Partnership L.P. v. San Dieguito River Valley Regional Open Space Park
Joint Powers Authority (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 910 in support of these
arguments. However, that case was disapproved by the Supreme Court in PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 1084, 1097,  footnote 5 (PLCM). Therefore, it
cannot be used in support of Defendants’ opposition.
 
Plaintiffs do
rely on PLCM, supra,  22 Cal.4th
1084 in support of their calculation method. In that case, the Supreme
Court allowed in-house counsel to calculate their attorney fees by multiplying
the prevailing hourly rate in the community for comparable legal services by reasonable
in-house attorney hours. (Id. at pp. 1093-1095.) Plaintiffs argue that
they should be allowed to do something similar. The obvious difference between PLCM
and Plaintiffs’ situation is that Plaintiffs’ counsel are not salaried in-house
corporate counsel. They know how much time each attorney spent on the case and
their hourly rates.
 
Another case
cited by Plaintiffs in their reply contains the proper standard: “It is well
established that ‘California courts do not require detailed time records, and
trial courts have discretion to award fees based on declarations of counsel
describing the work they have done and the court’s own view of the number of
hours reasonably spent. [Citations.]’.” (Syers Properties III, Inc. v.
Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 698 (Syers).) Furthermore, “‘Because
time records are not required under California law…, there is no required level
of detail that counsel must achieve. See (Citation) (‘We do not want “a [trial]
court, in setting an attorney’s fee, [to] become enmeshed in a meticulous
analysis of every detailed facet of the professional representation. It…is not
our intention that the inquiry into the adequacy of the fee assume massive
proportions, perhaps dwarfing the case in chief.”)’” (Id. at 699.)
Additionally, courts routinely affirm fee awards based on a lodestar
calculation, regardless of actual rates charged. (See Pasternack v.
McCullough (2014) 65 Cal.App.5th 1050, 1055.)
 
Based on this
standard, the records and timekeeping information provided by Plaintiffs would
be sufficient for the Court to make a determination as to its reasonableness.
Plaintiffs have provided a table with all of their attorneys hourly rates each
year, their hours worked, and the total lodestar for each attorney. (Beatty
Decl., ¶ 35.) Plaintiffs have also provided redacted billing records that
indicate the time spent on each task during the case. This is sufficient to
satisfy Syers.
 
Next, defendants
argue that the fees requested are unreasonable and excessive, in part because several
different attorneys worked on the case, with some putting in more than 80 hours
of duplicative work totaling 224.4 hours. (Opposition at p. 8.) Defendants base
this estimate on the amount of time it took Hamid’s attorneys to draft some of
the motions in the case, including the Anti-SLAPP motion (160.5 hours), opposition
to the motion to disqualify counsel (96.5 hours), and the demurrer to
cross-complaint (90.2 hours), among other things. (Kassabian Decl., ¶¶ 16-26.)
 
They also argue
that Plaintiffs’ attorneys “tag-teamed” the same tasks and duplicated efforts
for many projects that did not require multiple  attorneys. Defendants also argue that
Plaintiffs billed excessive amounts of time for simple projects, including
preparing a subpoena to LADWP (14.7 hours), a motion for attorney fees for the
Anti-SLAPP motion (49 hours), and an opposition to a motion to quash summons
(38.6 hours). (Opposition at p. 10.)
 
In determining
the reasonableness of fees, courts look to the factors from Church of
Scientology v. Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, disapproved on other
grounds by Equilon Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53,
68 footnote 5 (Wollersheim). These factors are (1) the amount of money
involved in the litigation; (2) the nature of the litigation and its difficulty
and the intricacies and importance of the litigation; (3) the skill required
and employed in handling the litigation, the necessity for skilled legal
training and ability in trying the case, and counsel’s education and experience
in the particular type of work involved; (4) the attention given to the case; (5)
the success of the attorneys efforts; and (6) the time consumed by the
litigation. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff argues
that he satisfies these factors. First, he argues that the stakes of this
litigation were high because Ahang’s cross-complaint sought damages of more
than $7 million and because the original settlement agreement divided assets of
the parties that were valued in excess of $20 million. Next, Plaintiff contends
that  this action  was  highly
emotional, involving a bitterly fought dispute between two ex-spouses and
business partners with significant assets at issue, with the Court having
determined that Ahang engaged in fraud. For the third factor, Plaintiff
contends that this was a complex case that required an experienced legal team
to handle it, and that Beatty’s team was the logical one to handle it because
Beatty had handled the cases that led to the settlement agreement. For the
fourth factor, Plaintiffs argue that their lawyers had to devote significant
attention to this case. Fifth, Plaintiff contends that lawyers were
consistently successful, prevailing on the anti-SLAPP motion and defeating the
attempt to disqualify Beatty, as well as by obtaining a favorable Section 998
Offer. Finally, Plaintiffs contend that this case consumed considerable
time  and would have gone on much longer
if Hamid had not accepted the Section 998 offer.
 
Plaintiffs’ reply
rejects defendants’ argument that the matter was overbilled. They argue that
all the time billed was reasonable, including the 230 hours billed for the anti-SLAPP
motion, because that motion was complex and dispositive. Plaintiffs also contend
that the hourly rates charged were reasonable, and that the overstaffing
argument is misleading because they voluntarily waived fees for five
timekeepers before filing the motion. 
 
Plaintiffs also
point out Defendants’ opposition papers improperly relied on the following
quote, which defendant attributed to the court in In re Bluetooth Headset
Prods. Liab. Litigation (9th Cir. 2011) 654 F.3d 935, 942,
footnote 7: “[w]here tag teams of attorneys are involved, fee application
should be scrutinized with special care”. As Plaintiff correctly notes, that
language does not appear in that case. 
In any case, the court believes that it has employed the required level
of scrutiny.
 
Next,
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs improperly redacted task descriptions making
it impossible to determine the reasonableness of tasks. The Court will defer to
the findings in Syers Properties that there is no specific level of
detail required. The same goes for Plaintiffs’ argument that the block-billed
entries were improper.
 
 Furthermore, the law permits redaction of
privileged information from invoices. (See Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 298 (while matter is
“pending and active, the privilege encompasses everything in an invoice,
including the amount of aggregate fees”); Mai v. HKT Cal., Inc. (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 504, 522 (allowing submission of redacted invoices).) Plaintiffs
argue that of the 700 hours at issue, only about 70 hours of task descriptions
include some redactions. Plaintiffs also argue that Defendants have failed to provide
any evidence to suggest that Plaintiffs have improperly claimed privilege over
a single billing entry. Based on this, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’
privilege redactions of certain billing entries was appropriate.
 
As for the
block-billing issue, there are times when block-billing is acceptable. This is
the case when the “evidence submitted in support of the motions for attorney
fees, however, was sufficient to allow the trial court to determine ‘whether
the case was overstaffed, how much time the attorneys spent on particular
claims, and whether the hours were reasonably expended.’” (Lunada Biomedical
v. Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, 487.) In this case, the billing
statements provided by Plaintiffs are sufficient for the Court to determine
whether the case was overstaffed, how much time the attorneys spent on
particular claims, and whether the hours were reasonably expended. The billing
statements include the attorney’s initials, the task the attorney completed,
and the amount of time that the attorney spent on that task. This is sufficient
to overcome any prohibition against block-billing.
 
Defendant also
argues that the attorney fees requested were unreasonably inflated and should
be reduced pursuant to Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621. Plaintiff
responds that Serrano does not apply because it allows courts to reduce
or deny unreasonably inflated fee requests for work performed in seeking
fees. The discretion of Serrano is only invoked where attorneys fail to
accurately document the tasks performed, fail to provide a viable lodestar, or
demonstrate dishonesty or incompetence.  Regardless of whether Serrano applies
or not, with certain exceptions set forth below, the court finds that the fees
requested were reasonably incurred.
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that the fee awards should be limited to $207,400, based on the
Coleman declaration. Because the court sustained Plaintiff’s objection to the
entire Coleman Declaration, this argument fails.
 
However, in
light of all of the foregoing, the Court does believe that some reduction of
the requested fees is necessary. Defendant highlights some areas where time
could be reduced on pages 9-10 of her opposition. First is the 160.5 hours
spent on the anti-SLAPP motion. That is more than four weeks’ worth (40 hours a
week) of time spent on drafting, replying to, and appearing at the hearing on
this motion. That seems excessive, regardless of the complexity of the motion.
The same could be said for the 96.5 hours (almost two and a half weeks) spent on
the opposition to motion to disqualify and the 90.2 hours spent on drafting the
demurrer to Defendants’ cross-complaint. Other issues of concern are the 49
hours spent on the motion for attorney fees for the anti-SLAPP motion and the
38.6 hours spent on the motion to quash summons. There are more, such as the
time spent drafting subpoenas and an ex parte application, but those are the
major issues.
 
The court has
reviewed those motions and other court filings and, based on its experience,
concludes as to those items that more time than was reasonably necessary was
spent, by approximately 25 percent, for a total of 108.7 hours (160.5 + 96.5
+90.2 +49 +38.6, multiplied by 0.25). 
Rather than sort out each attorney’s contribution to these matters, the
court will rely on the average hourly rate for the various lawyers who worked
on this case calculated at $858 as follows: $950 + $975 + $1,300 + $1,115 + $955
+$705 + $795 + $840 +595 + 350, divided by 10. 
Based on this calculation, the court reduces the lodestar figure by $93,264.60,
leaving a reasonable fee award of $526,410.40.
 
With the
exception of the reductions set forth above, and for the reasons previously
stated, the Court finds that the hourly rates charged and the fees requested
are reasonable. Therefore, the motion for attorney fees is granted in the
amount of $526,410.40. Costs should be requested in a memorandum of costs.
 
Moving party to
give notice.