  Case Number:  24STCV08540    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  82 Rafael Raz, et al.
v. Beith David Education Center, et al.
Case No.
24STCV08540
Ex Parte
Application for Temporary Restraining Order
 
            Plaintiffs
filed a verified petition for an order voiding the election of the directors of
the Beith David Education Center (“Beith David”), a non-profit religious
corporation which operates as an Orthodox Jewish synagogue.  Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application for
a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction shall not issue.  Plaintiffs
seek an order enjoining Defendant Fahim Farivar from: (1) Interfering with a
new membership meeting and election, (2) Attempting to intimidate or threaten
any member of the congregation from requesting a new membership meeting and
election, (3) Attempting to intimidate or threaten anyone in connection with
voting in the election, and (4) “Holding a Board of Directors meeting and
attempting to exercise any of the powers normally exercised by a Board of Directors,
including collecting money in the name of Beith David.”  Specifically, Plaintiffs seek to prevent the
Board from undertaking certain impeding actions, which include terminating the
“longtime caterer” and designating a new caterer, as well as “questioning
whether the Rabbi who certifies [the former caterer’s] food is qualified to do
so.”  The Court need not reach the issue
whether Plaintiffs can demonstrate a likelihood of success on the merits of the
underlying claims because the ex parte application is denied for several
independent reasons.  
 
            First, the
Court has no authority to grant this ex parte application because the Court
cannot intervene in religious matters relating to the management and operation
of a religious institution.  (See New
v. Kroeger (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 800, 815-816, citations omitted.)  “The prohibition against civil court
participation in sectarian disputes extends to issues involving membership, clergy
credentials and discipline, as well as religious entity governance and
administration.”  (Id., p. 815, citing Jones
v. Wolf (1979( 443 U.S. 595, 602.) 
In this case, Plaintiffs seek a court order that would prevent Beith David
from terminating the “longtime caterer” and hiring a new caterer.  This effectively asks the Court to intervene
in religious matters given the role of catering in implementing the laws of
kashrut (Jewish dietary laws). 
Similarly, Plaintiffs ask the Court to prevent Beith David from
questioning the qualifications of the rabbi who certified the caterer.  In other words, Plaintiffs ask this Court to
issue an order forcing Beith David to accept the kosher certification of a
rabbi.  The Court cannot prevent Beith
David from making its own decisions whether to accept or reject the credentials
or religious certifications/opinions of rabbis. 

 
            Second, Plaintiffs
do not demonstrate sufficient irreparable harm in any of the impending or
contemplated actions by the board.  Simply,
any decision by the board can be reversed or recompensed if a new board is
elected.
 
            Finally, the
balancing of the equities does not favor Plaintiffs.  To the contrary.  Plaintiffs seek an order that would prevent
the board from making any decision until this litigation is resolved.  Such an order would paralyze Beith David and effectively
prevent the synagogue from operating until the trial date, which probably will
not occur for at least one year.  The
Court will not close the synagogue—and deprive the congregants of its
services—over a dispute concerning the election.
 
            Based upon
the forgoing, Plaintiffs’ ex parte application is denied.  Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.    
 