

 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
August 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Judith Guerra and Gloria Guerra filed a complaint
against United Financial Casualty Company, AFNI and AAA Insurance.  Plaintiffs complaint checks the box for
“Motor Vehicle” as a cause of action. 
Plaintiffs are self-represented.
 
MOVING PARYTY’S
POSITION 
 
            Defendant
demurs to the complaint on grounds of uncertainty.  Defendant argues the complaint fails to
allege any context to Plaintiff’s claimed damages.  Defendant argues Plaintiff does not allege
the date of damage, the events leading up to the damage, the cause of damage,
the extent of damage or Defendant United Financial’s role in this action.  Defendant argues it is an insurance company
and could not have directly been involved in any motor vehicle collision.  
 
OPPOSITION—None
as of November 28, 2023
 
 
REPLY—None as
of November 28, 2023
 
            
ANALYSIS
 
            “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” 
(Khoury v. O’Maly (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A demurrer based on uncertainty will only be
sustained where the complaint is so poorly drafted that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond. (Id.)  However,
special demurrers based on uncertainty are not allowed in limited jurisdiction
court.  (CCP s. 92(c).)  Although Defendant references uncertainty,
Defendant also references in the demurrer and supporting declaration that
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state sufficient facts to state a cause of
action.  Defendant therefore sufficiently
provides Plaintiff with notice of a general demurrer based on failure to allege
sufficient facts to state a claim.  
 
            Plaintiffs’ complaint is so poorly
drafted that Defendant United Financial cannot reasonably respond, nor do
Plaintiffs’ vague allegations state any cause of action against United.  Plaintiffs mark the box for “Motor Vehicle” cause
of action in Item 10 of their form complaint. 
Plaintiffs, however, fail to allege any facts regarding a motor vehicle
accident, nor do they allege any facts that would make Defendant United
Financial, an insurance company, liable for their property damage from the
alleged accident.  Plaintiff Judith
Guerra denies “all guilt” in Item 15 and states that “my mother’s car was insured
during the time of the accident” and “United Financial decided to declare me at
fault and now sent AFNI to charge me.” 
(Complaint, Item 15.)  Plaintiffs include
a cryptic reference to “subrogation” but fails to plead any facts in support of
a subrogation claim against any of the Defendants.  These allegations do not inform Defendant
United Financial of its alleged wrongdoing or any basis to hold Defendant
United Financial liable for compensatory damages and punitive damages.  Plaintiffs’ complaint fails to state a cause
of action against Defendant United.  
 
            Defendant United Financial’s
Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
Moving Party is
ordered to give notice.