

 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
November 27, 2020, Plaintiff and Defendant M Y Investments, L.L.C. entered into
an agreement whereby Plaintiff would provide labor, services, equipment and
materials for a work of improvement. 
Parties agreed on a contract price of $6550, plus any additional sums as
the parties would determine as the price for extra work.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to pay for
the work performed and was negligent in filing necessary permits.  
 
            On August 2,
2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant M Y Investments, L.L.C. alleging
(1) breach of contract; (2) mechanic’s lien foreclosure; (3) negligence; (4) fraud.  On September 7, 2021, M Y Investments, L.L.C.
filed an improper answer in pro per to the complaint.  
 
MOVING PARYTY’S
POSITION 
 
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court strike Defendant’s answer and other documents, because they
were not filed by an attorney and Defendant cannot represent itself as a
corporate entity.  Plaintiff argues Elmer
Romero cannot file anything on Defendant’s behalf based solely on his status as
a member of Defendant.  Plaintiff asks
that the Court enter summary judgment on his behalf based on equity.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Defendant
argues the motion fails to comply with any procedural prerequisites to bring a
motion to strike or a motion for summary judgment.  Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet and
confer, filing the requisite documents or providing sufficient notice.  Defendant asks for leave to amend if the
Court agrees that the answer should be stricken.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s request for
motion for summary judgment was not served with proper notice and there are
triable issues of fact remaining.  
 
REPLY—None as
of November 28, 2023
            
ANALYSIS
 
I.  Motion to Strike Answer of M Y Investments,
L.L.C.—DENY as moot
 
            A.  Applicable Law 
 
            Motion to Strike.  “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”  (CCP §436.)  
 
            Pursuant to CCP §436, the Court may
strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading”
and/or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (CCP §436.) 
In ruling on a motion to strike, the allegations in the complaint are
considered in context and presumed to be true: “[J]udges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v.
Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.) (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)   
 
            Corporation’s
self-representation.  “A corporation
has the capacity to bring a lawsuit because it has all the powers of a natural
person in carrying out its business. (§ 17; Corp.Code, §§ 105, 207.) However,
under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a corporation, unlike a
natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in propria
persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director or
other employee who is not an attorney. It must be represented by licensed counsel
in proceedings before courts of record.” 
(CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145 (corporation filed complaint in pro per and trial court
erred when it struck complaint without leave to amend).)  
 
            “Given the weight of nationwide
authority and this state's increasing acceptance of the view that
representation of the corporation by an attorney is not an absolute
prerequisite to the court's fundamental power to hear or determine a case, we
are persuaded it is more appropriate and just to treat a corporation's failure
to be represented by an attorney as a defect that may be corrected, on such
terms as are just in the sound discretion of the court. First and foremost,
this approach honors the cornerstone jurisprudential policies that, in
furtherance of justice, complaints are to be liberally construed (§ 452) and
disputes should be resolved on their merits.” 
(Id. at 1149.)  
 
            “This conclusion also recognizes the
legislative directive that a corporation shall be deemed a ‘person’ with the
capacity, or legal authority, to sue, that is, to be a party to a lawsuit.  The rule requiring representation by an
attorney does not deprive a corporation of this capacity to be a party to a
lawsuit. It is not a fact essential to the corporation's cause of action or an
element constituting its right of action. 
To deem a pleading void because the corporation on whose behalf it was
filed, although statutorily authorized to be a party, did not have an attorney
sign the pleading, elevates the attorney to a role akin to that of an
indispensable party.”  (CLD
Construction, Inc., supra, 120 Cal.App.4th at 1150.)
 
            “Finally, as this case demonstrates,
the absence of legal representation at the threshold step of a lawsuit—filing
the complaint—rarely prejudices the opposing party. At such an early stage,
denial of a motion to strike or granting leave to amend to show representation
by counsel on such terms as the trial court deems just will not frustrate the
rule's purpose of guarding against the unlicensed practice of law and
preventing its attendant problems. To the extent the opposing party is burdened
by having to bring a motion to strike the complaint of a corporation not
represented by counsel, the court, as a condition for granting leave to amend,
may order the corporation to pay the opposing party's expenses for bringing the
motion.”  (Id.)
 
            B.  Application to Facts
 
            The motion to strike Defendant’s answer on grounds that
it was not filed by an attorney is denied. 
M Y Investments L.L.C. filed a substitution of attorney on June 15,
2023.  It is no longer self-represented
and the answer need not be stricken.  The
Court set an OSC re: Why Defendant’s Answer Should Not Be Stricken for Failure
to Obtain Legal Representation for June 27, 2023.  The Court noted that the issue had been cured
and the OSC was discharged.  For the same
reasons, Plaintiff’s motion to strike is DENIED.  
 
II.  Motion for Summary Judgment—DENY 
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is not supported
by a separate statement.  A separate
statement is mandatory.  “The supporting
papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely
all material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed.”  (CCP §437c(b)(1).)
 
            Plaintiff failed to file a proof of
service of the motion for summary judgment. 
The Court cannot determine whether the motion was served with the
requisite notice period under CCP §437c(a)(2).
 
            Plaintiff was required to submit
admissible evidence to support his motion for summary judgment.  (CCP §437c(b)(1).)  Plaintiff attaches a single invoice that is
not authenticated. (Motion, “Work Invoice.”) 

 
            Finally, Plaintiff’s memorandum of
points and authorities does not set forth any legal authorities or legal
argument in support of the motion for summary judgment.  (Motion, 2:1-16.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s alternative motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.  
 
Moving Party
is ordered to give notice. 
 