 Case Number:  23CHCV02952    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47 Date: 4/4/24 Case #23CHCV02952   DEMURRER &  MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL CROSS-COMPLAINT   Demurrer filed on 2/20/24 & Motion to Strike filed  on 2/21/24.   MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Clifford Eric Lundgren RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant Xi Wang NOTICE: ok   Demurrer is to the 3rd, 4th, and 6th*  causes of action:             1.  Corporations Code 709             2.  Dissolution of Corporation             3.  Breach of Fiduciary Duty             4.  Fraud – Promise Without Intent to Perform             5.  Breach of Oral Contract             6.  Accounting             7.  Defamation              8.  Injunctive Relief   *Lundgren fails to provide clear  notice as to which causes of action are the subject of the demurrer.  The notice indicates that the Lundgren is  demurring to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th,  7th and 8th causes of action.  However, the Demurrer and Memorandum of  Points and Authorities indicate that Lundgren’s demurrer addresses only the 3rd,  4th and 6th causes of action.      RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order striking the 3rd, 4th, 5th,  7th and 8th causes of action, allegations and the prayers  for punitive damages and attorneys' fees.    RULING: The demurrer is sustained and the motion  to strike is granted, both with 30 days leave to amend.     On 11/14/23, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang (Xi Wang)  answered Plaintiff Big Battery Inc.’s (Big Battery) complaint and filed the  subject cross-complaint against Big Battery and Clifford Eric Lundgren  (Lundgren) alleging causes of action for: (1) Corporations Code 709, (2)  Dissolution of Corporation, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Fraud – Promise  Without Intent to Perform, (5) Breach of Oral Contract, (6) Accounting, (7)  Defamation and (8) Injunctive Relief.  On  11/16/23, a summons on the cross-complaint was issued.  It is not clear when the cross-complaint and  summons thereon were served as no proof of service for same has been filed.   Lundgren’s attorney states that on 1/11/24, he was unable  to meet and confer with Xi Wang’s counsel so he, subsequently, filed a  declaration in support of automatic extension.   (J. Wang Decl. ¶2).  Although a  copy of the extension declaration is attached as an exhibit, no such  declaration was filed with the court.  (See  J. Wang Decl., Ex.A, eCourt generally).   Attorney Wang also states that on 1/11/24, Xi Wang and Lundgren entered  into a stipulation to extend the period to respond by 30 days, from 1/12/24 to  2/12/24.  (J. Wang Decl. ¶3, Ex.B).  Attorney Wang then states that on 2/9/24, he  executed a declaration regarding meet and confer wherein he states under  penalty of perjury that Xi Wang failed to respond to meet and confer or  otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (J. Wang Decl. ¶4, Ex.C).   On 2/12/24, Lundgren served the instant demurrer to the 3rd,  4th and 6th causes of action and motion strike which  seeks an order striking the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th  and 8th causes of action, allegations regarding and the prayers for  punitive damages and attorneys' fees.   The Court notes that Lundgren fails to provide clear notice as to which  causes of action are the subject of the demurrer.  The notice indicates that Lundgren is  demurring to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th,  7th and 8th causes of action.  However, the Demurrer and Memorandum of  Points and Authorities indicate that Lundgren’s demurrer addresses only the 3rd,  4th and 6th causes of action.  Lundgren’s demurrer was not filed until  2/20/24 and motion to strike was not filed until 2/21/24.     On 3/22/24, Xi Wang filed and served oppositions to the  demurrer and motion to strike.  Xi Wang’s  attorney states that contrary to the meet and confer declaration of Lundgren’s  counsel, he was never contacted regarding a request to meet and confer.  (See Walker Decl. ¶3).  Xi Wang’s attorney states that on 3/18/24, he  contacted Lundgren’s attorney regarding the mandatory meet and confer  requirements and included a proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint requesting  comments; however, he never received a reply email.  (Walker Decl. ¶4).  (The Court notes that the declaration of  Donald Walker, Xi Wang’s attorney, does not comply with the requirements of CCP  2015.5).     On 3/27/24, Lundgren filed and served replies to the  oppositions.  Lundgren’s attorney fails  to address Xi Wang’s counsel’s claim that he falsely represented that Xi Wang  failed to respond to meet and confer efforts.   The Court further notes that Lundgren’s attorney provides no explanation  as to why he did not respond to Xi Wang’s meet and confer efforts made after Xi  Wang received the demurrer and motion to strike.  Rather, Lundgren contends that the proposed  First Amended Cross-Complaint does not resolve all of the issues presented in  the demurrer and motion to strike.   However, Xi Wang’s counsel’s email communication sent with the proposed  First Amended Cross-Complaint also requested comments.  (Walker Decl., Ex.2).   Xi Wang had a right to file a First Amended  Cross-Complaint after receiving the demurrer and motion to strike if such was  filed and served no later than the date for filing the oppositions (i.e., 9  court days before the hearing).  CCP  472(a); CCP 1005(b).  Based on this  statutory right and Xi Wang’s seeming concession that the cross-complaint needs  amending, the Court sustains the demurrer and grants the motion to strike with  leave to amend.     The Court orders the parties to meet and confer before Xi  Wang files a First Amended Cross-Complaint to attempt to resolve the issues  Lundgren has with the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint.          Dept. F47 Date: 4/5/24 Case #23CHCV02952   DEMURRER &  MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL CROSS-COMPLAINT   Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 2/13/24.   MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Big Battery, Inc. RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant Xi Wang NOTICE: ok   Demurrer is to the 2nd, 5th, 7th  and 8th* causes of action:             1.  Corporations Code 709             2.  Dissolution of Corporation             3.  Breach of Fiduciary Duty             4.  Fraud – Promise Without Intent to Perform             5.  Breach of Oral Contract             6.  Accounting             7.  Defamation              8.  Injunctive Relief   *Big Battery fails to provide  clear notice as to which causes of action are the subject of the demurrer.  The notice indicates that Big Battery is demurring to  the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th  and 8th causes of action.  However,  the Demurrer and Memorandum of Points and Authorities indicate that Big Battery  is demurring to the 2nd, 5th, 7th and 8th  causes of action.     RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order striking the 3rd, 4th, 5th,  7th and 8th causes of action, allegations and the prayers  for punitive damages and attorneys' fees.   RULING: The demurrer is sustained and the motion  to strike is granted, both with 30 days leave to amend.     On 11/14/23, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang (Xi Wang)  answered Plaintiff Big Battery Inc.’s (Big Battery) complaint and filed the  subject cross-complaint against Big Battery and Clifford Eric Lundgren  (Lundgren) alleging causes of action for: (1) Corporations Code 709, (2)  Dissolution of Corporation, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Fraud – Promise  Without Intent to Perform, (5) Breach of Oral Contract, (6) Accounting, (7)  Defamation and (8) Injunctive Relief.  On  11/16/23, a summons on the cross-complaint was issued.  It is not clear when the cross-complaint and  summons thereon were served as no proof of service for same has been filed.   Big Battery’s attorney states that on 1/11/24, he was  unable to meet and confer with Xi Wang’s counsel so he, subsequently, filed a  declaration in support of automatic extension.   (J. Wang Decl. ¶2).  Although a  copy of the extension declaration is attached as an exhibit, no such  declaration was filed with the court.  (See  J. Wang Decl., Ex.A, eCourt generally).   Attorney Wang also states that on 1/11/24, Xi Wang and Big Battery  entered into a stipulation to extend the period to respond by 30 days, from 1/12/24  to 2/12/24.  (J. Wang Decl. ¶3,  Ex.B).  Attorney Wang then states that on  2/9/24, he executed a declaration regarding meet and confer wherein he states  under penalty of perjury that Xi Wang failed to respond to meet and confer or  otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (J. Wang Decl. ¶4, Ex.C).   On 2/13/24, Big Battery filed (served on 2/12/24) the  instant demurrer to the 2nd, 5th, 7th and 8th  causes of action and motion strike which seeks an order striking the 3rd,  4th, 5th, 7th and 8th causes of  action, allegations regarding and the prayers for punitive damages and  attorneys' fees.  The Court notes that Big  Battery fails to provide clear notice as to which causes of action are the  subject of the demurrer.  The notice  indicates that Big Battery is demurring to the 3rd, 4th,  5th, 6th, 7th and 8th causes of  action.  However, the Demurrer and  Memorandum of Points and Authorities indicate that Big Battery is demurring to  the 2nd, 5th, 7th and 8th causes of  action.     On 3/22/24, Xi Wang filed and served oppositions to the  demurrer and motion to strike.  Xi Wang’s  attorney states that contrary to the meet and confer declaration of Big  Battery’s counsel, he was never contacted regarding a request to meet and  confer.  (See Walker Decl.  ¶3).  Xi Wang’s attorney states that on  3/18/24, he contacted Big Battery’s attorney regarding the mandatory meet and  confer requirements and included a proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint  requesting comments; however, he never received a reply email.  (Walker Decl. ¶4).  (The Court notes that the declaration of  Donald Walker, Xi Wang’s attorney, does not comply with the requirements of CCP  2015.5).     On 3/27/24, Big Battery filed and served replies to the  oppositions.  Big Battery’s attorney  fails to address Xi Wang’s counsel’s claim that he falsely represented that Xi  Wang failed to respond to meet and confer efforts.  The Court further notes that Big Battery’s attorney  provides no explanation as to why he did not respond to Xi Wang’s meet and  confer efforts made after Xi Wang received the demurrer and motion to  strike.  Rather, Big Battery contends  that the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint does not resolve all of the  issues presented in the demurrer and motion to strike.  However, Xi Wang’s counsel’s email  communication sent with the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint also  requested comments.  (Walker Decl.,  Ex.2).   Xi Wang had a right to file a First Amended  Cross-Complaint after receiving the demurrer and motion to strike if the First  Amended Cross-Complaint was filed and served no later than the date for filing  the oppositions (i.e., 9 court days before the hearing).  CCP 472(a); CCP 1005(b).  Based on this statutory right and Xi Wang’s  seeming concession that the cross-complaint needs amending, the Court sustains  the demurrer and grants the motion to strike with leave to amend.     The Court orders the parties to meet and confer before Xi  Wang files a First Amended Cross-Complaint to attempt to resolve the issues Big  Battery has with the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint.                        