 Case Number:  23VECV00760    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  W LILACH
BASSON, ET AL. V. KRYSTAL BURNS, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANT NORMA BURNS
MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO SET ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT AGAINST
DEFENDANTS 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
11, 2023                                      Trial
Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        23VECV00760
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Norma Burns
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi, a minor by his
Guardian Ad Litem Lilach Basson, filed a complaint against Defendants Krystal
Burns, Norma Burns, and Glory Project LLC for assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress,
and interference with tenancy. Plaintiff Yacov leases property from Defendant
Glory Project, LLC. Plaintiff Lilach Basson alleges when she was visiting her
husband’s office with Noam, their son, Basson was physically and verbally
attacked by Defendants Norma and Krystal Burns. Defendant Krystal Burns manages
the property. 
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of
service on March 29, 2023, indicating that Defendant Norma Burns had been
personally served on March 9, 2023 by registered process server I. Anis.  
 
Default was entered against
Defendant Norma Burns on April 13, 2023. On April 24, 2023, default was entered
against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC. The court set aside the
default entered against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC on June
22, 2023. 
 
On September 21, 2023,
defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project, LLC filed an ex parte application
to set aside the entry of default.  On
September 26, the ex parte application and a default prove up came on for
hearing.  The court set the motion to set
aside for hearing on October 27, 2023, but proceeded to conduct a default prove
up hearing.  After receiving evidence
from the three plaintiffs, the court took the matter under submission.  Later that day, the court issued its ruling
on the default prove-up, awarding damages to each plaintiff against the various
defendants.  
 
On October 27, 2023, the
motion to set aside filed by Krystal Burns and Glory Project, LLC was
granted.  Three days earlier, Normal
Burns had filed a “Joinder to Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment.”  At the hearing on October 27, the court granted
Krystal Burns and Glory Project, LLC’s Motion. 
The court made no written ruling on the joinder, but indicated at the
hearing that the joinder was improper and Ms. Norma Burns would have to bring
her own  motion to set aside the default
judgment.   On November 6, Norma Burns
filed the instant motion to set aside.  
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Defendant Norma Burns’ Motion for an Order to Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Norma Burns moves the court to set aside the
default and default judgment previously entered into this action on the
complaint of Plaintiffs Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi.
Defendant makes the motion for lack of proper service or, in the alternative,
Norma’s failure to respond earlier in this case was due to her mistake and/or
the mistake of her counsel.  
 
The trial court has broad discretion to set aside the entry
of default, default judgment, or a dismissal, but that discretion can be
exercised only if the moving party establishes a proper ground for relief, by
the proper procedure, and within the applicable time limits. (See Cruz v.
Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 permits the court to
vacate a default when service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to
a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been
entered against him. (CCP § 473.5(a).) The phrase actual notice means genuine
knowledge and does not include constructive or imputed notice to the client. (Tunis
v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1077.)  “A defendant seeking
vacation of a default judgment entered against him must further show that his
lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his
inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service.”  (Id. at 1077-1078,
citing CCP § 473.5(c).) Section 473(d) provides that “[t]he court may . .
. on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(d).) A default judgment is void
against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed
by statute. (See Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852,
858.)
 
Defendant first argues the proof of service is defective
because it does not state how many copies of the summons and complaint were
left with Norma and whether Norma was served individually at the time with her
own copy. As a result, the judgment and default against her are void for lack
of due process and did not result in actual notice.  The court disagrees.  The proof of service plainly states that
Norma Burns was handed a copy of the complaint and other documents on March 9,
2023 by the process server and that she was served as an individual
defendant.  There is no evidence to
support defendant’s claim that she was not served.  The process server indeed attests that she
handed Norma three envelopes: one for herself as an individually named
defendant and one for delivery to Krystal and to Glory Projects, LLC.  Although it would appear that defendant was
confused, it was incumbent on her to look at the documents handed to her, from
which she would have determined that she was individually named as a defendant
in the lawsuit. 
 
In the alternative, Defendant argues if Norma did not file a
responsive pleading sooner, it was due to a mistake Norma or her attorney’s
mistake. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), a party may seek
mandatory relief from the entry of a default and default judgment based on
evidence that the entry of default was caused by the mistake, surprise,
inadvertence, or neglect of the party’s attorney. Section 473(b) states that
the motion must be filed within six months from the entry of the default judgment.
(See Sugasawara v. Newland (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 296-97 (finding that the
six-month limitation for attorney neglect runs from the entry of default
judgment and that the order granting relief sets aside the default and the
default judgment).) Relief is mandatory when an attorney files the required
affidavit, even if the attorney’s neglect was inexcusable. (See Carmel, Ltd. v.
Tavoussi (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393, 401 (setting aside a default entered when
the attorney failed to file an answer).)  

 
In the instant case, it does not appear that judgment has
ever been entered.  Even if the court
were to take the date of the default prove up as the date for entry of judgment,
the motion for relief based on an attorney’s error was brought well within the six-month
period provided by C.C.P. Section 473(b). The erroneous motion for joinder was
filed before judgment was entered.  Had
defendant’s counsel pursued other relief, the default prove up might not have
proceeded against Ms. Norma Burns.  Accordingly,
the court finds that defendant Norma Burns is entitled to relief from the
default judgment.  As pointed out by the
court in Sugasawara, the legislature made clear that if a party is relieved
from default judgment due to their counsel’s error, the entry of default should
also be set aside.  (Id., at p.
297.)   
 
The court grants defendant’s motion to set aside the entry
of default and default judgment.  
 