  Case Number:  21STCV15600    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  W MICHAEL
COROMINAS, et al. v. WEST HILLS HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
motion to continue trial 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
11, 2023                          Trial Date:       May 28, 2024
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21STCV15600
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Kiumars Arfai, M.D., Inc. dba Northridge Specialty Imaging and Defendants Jamie
Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Chris Y. Wang, M.D., and Jessica Thomas, M.D.
Responding Party:     No
opposition
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael
Corominas and Lisa Corominas filed a complaint against Defendants West Hills
Hospital and Medical Center, Martin M. Mortazavi, M.D., Jessica Thomas, M.D.,
Paul Diehl, M.D., Dean Wilson, Jr., P.A., Specialty Imagining Center, Tejpal
Singh, M.D., Providence Cedars-Sina Tarzana Medical Center, Chris Y. Wang,
M.D., Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D., Exer Urgent Care, Michael H. Lee, M.D., and
California Institute of Neuroscience for medical negligence and loss of
consortium. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT KIUMARS ARFAI, M.D., INC. DBA NORTHRIDGE SPECIALTY
IMAGING’S MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND RELATED DATES
 
Defendant Kiumars Arfai, M.D., Inc. dba
Northridge Specialty Imaging (erroneously sued and served herein as Specialty
Imaging Center) moves this court for an order continuing trial from the
presently set date of May 28, 2024 to November 26, 2024 to allow Northridge
Specialty Imaging’s motion for summary judgment to be heard at least 30 days
before trial in this matter. Defendant Paul Diehl, M.D. filed a Notice of
Joinder. 
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule
3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted:  (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include:
a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated
to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
(d).) 
 
It is well established that a court may not refuse to hear a
summary judgment motion that is timely filed.¿ (Wells Fargo Bank v. Superior
Court¿(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.) The court therein held that a trial
court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time
limits of section 437c.  (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918, 919.)  Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. (Ibid.;
Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.) 
“We are sympathetic to the problems the trial courts experience in calendaring
and hearing the many motions for summary judgment.  However, the solution
to these problems cannot rest in a refusal to hear timely motions.”  (Id.,
at p. 530.) 
 
The court finds there is good cause to continue trial. In this
case, Northridge Specialty Imaging has
timely filed its motion for summary judgment, but Northridge Specialty Imaging’s inability
to have the motion heard is due to the court’s calendar.  Therefore, there
is good cause to continue the trial date.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Trial is
continued to November 26, 2024. Discovery and motions cutoff dates shall be
based on the new trial date.
 
II.                 
MOTION TO SPECIALLY SET HEARING DATES ON MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, TO CONTINUE TRIAL
 
Defendants Jamie Soo Moi Eng, M.D.,
Chris Y. Wang, M.D., and Jessica Thomas, M.D. move this court for an order
specially setting the hearing dates for their motions for summary judgment
before the motion cut-off thirty days before trial per Code of Civil Procedure
§437c (a), or, in the alternative, continuing the trial. Trial is May 28, 2024,
with a law and motion cut-off of April 26, 2024. 
 
Based on the reasons above, the court
grants Defendant’s motion to continue trial. 