  Case Number:  23PSCV00285    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jane  Doe, et al. v. Glendora Unified School District, et al.  1 – Glendora  Unified School District’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections for Jane  GA Doe and Jane Doe’s Special Interrogatories; 2 – Glendora  Unified School District’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections for Jane  GA Doe and Jane Doe’s Form Interrogatories; 3 – Glendora  Unified School District’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections for Jane  GA Doe and Jane Doe’s Requests for Production of Documents; and 4 – Glendora  Unified School District’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections for Jane  GA Doe and Jane Doe’s Requests for Admission  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Glendora Unified School District’s  motions for relief from waiver of objections to Plaintiffs’ written discovery  requests.              Defendant Glendora Unified School  District is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar  days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This case arises from a sexual assault. On January 1, 2023,  Plaintiffs Jane Doe (Daughter), a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,  Jane GA Doe, and Jane GA Doe, individually (Mother) (collectively, Plaintiffs),  filed this action. On July 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First  Amended Complaint against Defendants Glendora Unified School District (GUSD),  Cullen Elementary School, Sandberg Elementary School, Cheryl Bonner (Bonner),  Virginia Kelsen (Kelsen),[1] and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for negligent supervision of  students, negligent hiring, supervision, training, and retention, intentional  infliction of emotional distress (x 2), and negligent infliction of emotional  distress (x 2).  On September 13, 2024, and September 16, GUSD moved for relief  from waivers of objections to written discovery. On October 15, 2024, Plaintiffs  opposed the motions, except for the motion for relief from waivers of  objections to Form Interrogatories. On October 21, 2024, GUSD replied to  Plaintiffs’ oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD  (a) The party to whom the interrogatories are  directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under  Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including  one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4  (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that  party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following  conditions are satisfied:  (1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and  2030.240.  (2) The party's failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (a).)  (a) The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling  is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on  privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing  with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this  waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are  satisfied:  (1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,  2031.240, and 2031.280.  (2) The party's failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (a).)  (a) The party to whom the requests for admission are  directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege  or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section  2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its  determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:  (1) The party has subsequently served a response that  is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230.  (2) The party's failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (a).)  DISCUSSION              Summary of Arguments  GUSD  seeks relief from its waivers of objections to Plaintiffs’ written discovery  requests previously served in March 2024, namely Special Interrogatories, Form  Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents, and Requests for  Admission. GUSD contends that it served verified code compliant responses to  these discovery requests on May 10, 2024. GUSD contends the failure to timely  respond to these written discovery requests was the result of excusable  neglect. GUSD’s counsel indicates that they simply did not see the emails sent,  and the requests were not served on GUSD’s counsel’s assistant who handles  calendaring due to counsel failing to explicitly request service on that  assistant. GUSD’s counsel indicates the firm’s email platform has been undergoing  an overhaul over the past year.  GUSD’s  counsel also indicates that when its counsel was preparing its own discovery  requests, the case file was reviewed for information needed through discovery,  but also to ensure that no discovery had been served. GUSD’s counsel indicates that  no requests were within the file. GUSD further contends the objections it  asserted are necessary and appropriate, as Plaintiffs requested information  protected by various Education Code provisions, as well as having vague and  ambiguous questions. GUSD contends Plaintiffs have not been and will not be  prejudiced.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend relief from waiver should be denied because  GUSD’s statements of compliance, statements of inability to comply, and  objections largely ignore statutory requirements, and because many of GUSD’s  objections are unmeritorious. Plaintiffs also contend GUSD’s responses to  Plaintiffs’ contention interrogatories are evasive and incomplete. With respect  to the Requests for Production of Documents, Plaintiff contend GUSD’s  statements fail to comply with requirements set forth in Code of Civil  Procedure sections 2031.220, 2031.230, and 2031.240. With respect to the Requests  for Admission, Plaintiffs contend GUSD’s objections of vague, ambiguous, or  unintelligible are unmeritorious because it is unclear what exactly GUSD could  possibly find vague or ambiguous about these requests. Plaintiffs also contend  GUSD improperly asserted objections based on legal conclusion and lack of  sufficient knowledge to admit or deny. With respect to the Special  Interrogatories, Plaintiffs argue  that  GUSD’s objections of vague, ambiguous, and overbroad are without merit because  it is unclear what GUSD could possibly find vague or ambiguous, and that GUSD  fails to make the showing required of the quantum of work necessary to respond.  Analysis  The  Court finds GUSD is entitled to relief from its waivers of objections to  Plaintiffs’ written discovery requests. GUSD has presented sufficient evidence  demonstrating that its failure to timely respond to these discovery requests  was the result of inadvertence or mistake due to issues with emails and the  requests not being sent to the right person at GUSD’s counsel’s firm. (See  generally, Danforth Decls.) None of Plaintiffs’ oppositions dispute this. (See  generally, Opps.) The Court also reiterates from its May 21, 2024 ruling that  Plaintiffs gave GUSD very little time to address its untimely responses before Plaintiffs  filed the underlying discovery motions. (Order re Tentative Ruling (5/21/24).)  Moreover,  GUSD provided verified responses to all discovery requests in May 2024.  (Danforth Decls. ISO Motions for Relief from Waiver of Objections to Form  Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of  Documents, Ex. E; Danforth Decl. ISO Motion for Relief from Waiver of  Objections to Requests for Admission, Ex. D.) Whether GUSD’s objections have  merits is not an issue in the instant motion because by identifying the  specific grounds for the objections the responses are code compliant as the  Code of Civil Procedure allows for objections.  Further,  the law only specifies “substantial compliance.” (See Code Civ. Proc., §§  2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a).) The Civil  Discovery Act does not include a definition of "substantial  compliance," and few cases have addressed the circumstances under which a  response will be deemed not in substantial compliance. (See St. Mary v.  Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778.) Substantial compliance  means actual compliance with respect to the substance essential to every  reasonable objective of the statute. (Id. at p. 790.) However,  substantial compliance should not be understood as requiring actual compliance  with every specific statutory requirement. (Ibid.) A court may not find that  only some portions of a document containing responses are code compliant, but  must instead determine whether the document as a whole substantially complies.  (Ibid. [this position is supported by the fact that there is an effective  statutory vehicle to compel a responding party to cure unsatisfactory  responses].) Even though the proposed responses "may not have actually  complied with all statutory requirements, such actual compliance is not  required where the proposed response is facially a good-faith effort to respond  to [the discovery] in a manner that is substantially code compliant." (Id.  at 782.) The Court finds GUSD provided code compliant responses to each of  Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and GUSD’s responses are substantially compliant.  Additionally,  the Court construes Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition to the motion for relief  from waiver of objections to Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories as a tacit  admission that GUSD’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)  58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111  Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support  them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation]”].)  Based on the  foregoing, the Court GRANTS GUSD’s motions for relief from waiver of objections.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Glendora Unified School District’s  motions for relief from waiver of objections to Plaintiffs’ written discovery  requests.              Defendant Glendora Unified School  District is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar  days of this order.     