 Case Number:  24STCV01320    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







TORRANCE FLITE PARK, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DONALD ORVAL SHAW, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV01320




Hearing Date:


September 23, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION FOR ORDER SETTING ASIDE DEFAULT JUDGMENT[1]
  AND FOR LEAVE TO DEFEND ACTION PURSUANT TO CCP § 473
  AND SETTING OF CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE
 



Background
Plaintiff Torrance Flite
Park, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on January 18, 2024 against
Defendants Donald Orval Shaw and Advanced Tactics, Inc. (jointly,
“Defendants”).
On April 4, 2024,
default was entered against Donald Orval Shaw. On April 9, 2024, default was
entered against Advanced Tactics, Inc.
Defendants now move “for
an order setting aside the default [sic] entered against them…” No
opposition to the motion was filed. 
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part: 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 “[B]ecause the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233 [negative treatment
on other grounds].) Where the party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, and no prejudice to
the opposing party will result from setting aside the default, “very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.” (Ibid.)
In support of the
motion, Defendants submit the Declaration of Donald Shaw, the owner of Advanced
Tactics. (Shaw Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Shaw states that he “was also its Chief
Executive Officer until in or about late 2023, which [sic] Christoper Anderson
was hired to serve as a consultant and fill that role.” (Shaw Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants
also submit the Declaration of Christopher Anderson, who states that he “was
installed into the role of Chief Executive Officer for purposes of addressing a
number of issues Advanced Tactics was then facing, including the issues raised
in this suit.” (Anderson Decl., ¶ 4.) 
In his declaration, Mr.
Anderson states that “[p]rior to and after the filing of this suit, I was
engaged in numerous conversations with Hazzan Izad, the owner of Torrance Flite
Park, LLC. Within these communications, Mr. Izad and I made a variety proposals
and counterproposals to resolve the dispute.” (Anderson Decl., ¶ 5.) Mr.
Anderson states that “even after the suit was served, I continued to negotiate
with Mr. Izad. During these conversations, I was led by Mr. Izad to believe the
parties would be able to reach an agreement that would result in the lawsuit
being dropped. Ms. Izad told me, in substance, he had authorized the filings of
the suit solely as a backstop in order to help keep our negotiations on track.”
(Anderson Decl., ¶ 7.) 
In his supporting
declaration, Mr. Shaw states that “[d]ue to our belief the issues with
Plaintiff would be resolved, we made the mistake of directing our efforts and
attention primarily to the negotiations with Mr. Izad and the consolidation of
the facilities we were using…It was not my intent to allow a default or default
judgment to be entered against either me or Advanced Tactics. Rather,
throughout, we were working to resolve the issues with Torrance Flite Park so
that the lawsuit would be dismissed.” (Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) 
            Mr.
Anderson states that “I now understand that the deadline to file a response to
the lawsuit was April 1, 2024. Torrance Flite apparent [sic] first attempted to
obtain a default on April 2, 2024, without any warning. To wit, though I had
been in contact with Mr. Izad, he never provided the courtesy of letting me
know that Torrance Flite would attempt on the first possible day to obtain
entry of defaults.” (Anderson Decl., ¶ 12.) Mr. Shaw states that “[u]pon
learning that the responsive pleading deadline had passed and that Torrance
Flite Park was attempting obtain a default, we immediately retained counsel…Advanced
Tactics and I retained the Maloney Firm at approximately the close of business
on April 9, 2024 and completed the retention of the firm the next day, April
10, 2024. The Maloney Firm filed Answers for both Mr. Shaw and Advanced Tactics
on April 10, 2024.” (Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.) 
            Mr.
Shaw states that “[i]n sum, Advanced Tactics and I missed the deadline to file
responsive pleadings because their [sic] efforts were focused on attempting to
resolve this dispute directly with Plaintiff’s principal, Mr. Izad. I did not
intend to allow a default to be taken, nor did I allow the defaults to be taken
for strategic or other purposes. Rather, I simply made the honest mistake of
believing the negotiations with Mr. Izad had been fruitful, directing their
efforts to complying with requests made within those negotiations. Had I
realized that a default would be taken, I and Advanced Tactics would have
changed course, abandoned the negotiations, and directed their efforts to
locating counsel at an earlier date.” (Shaw Decl., ¶ 13.) 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have shown that their defaults were
taken as a result of their “mistake” or “surprise.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) In addition, Defendants lodged an Answer to
Complaint with the instant motion. Further, the instant motion was filed on August
14, 2024, less than six months after Defendants’ defaults were entered on April
4, 2024 and April 9, 2024. 
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition, the
Court finds that Defendants
have demonstrated good cause under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
for the Court to set aside the defaults entered against them.   
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for an order setting aside the defaults is granted. The default
entered against Donald
Orval Shaw on April 4, 2024 is ordered set aside. The default entered against Advanced
Tactics, Inc. on April 9, 2024 is ordered set aside.  
Defendants are ordered to file their Answer to Complaint within 10 days
of the date of this Order.¿ The Court sets a case management conference on
December 4, 2024 at 10 a.m. in Dept. 50.
Defendants are ordered
to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  September 23, 2024           
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


