  Case Number:  20STCV15001    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 20, 2020, Plaintiff Taylor Briscoe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Heide Orellana (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
November 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing substituted
service on Defendant of the summons, complaint, and other documents on November
2, 2021.  On February 17, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service showing substituted service on Defendant of a
statement of damages on February 14, 2022. 
On
March 29, 2022, the clerk entered Defendant’s default. 
On
July 15, 2022, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice.  On March 3, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the dismissal. 
On
May 24, 2023, the Court dismissed the Doe defendants without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
November 17, 2023, the Court granted Intervenor Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance
Company’s ex parte application to intervene and to file an answer in
intervention. 
On
November 27, 2023, Intervenor Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company
(“Intervenor”) filed an answer in intervention and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On March
28, 2024, the Court denied Intervenor’s motion to set aside Defendant’s default. 
On
July 8, 2024, Intervenor filed motions (1) to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
request for production of documents, set one, and for sanctions, (2) to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to special interrogatories, set one, and for sanctions,
and (3) to compel Plaintiff’s responses to form interrogatories, set one, and
for sanctions.  The motions were set for
hearing on August 6, 2024.  Plaintiff did
not file oppositions.  
INTERVENOR’S REQUESTS 
Intervenor
asks the Court to compel Plaintiff’s responses to (1) request for production of
documents, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set one, and (3) form
interrogatories, set one.  Intervenor
also requests sanctions. 
DISCUSSION 
          The proofs of service attached to Intervenor’s motions do
not state the method used to serve the motions. 
The proofs of service state that the motions were placed in sealed
envelopes but do not state whether the motions were served by mail, personal
service, facsimile, electronic transmission, or overnight delivery.  The Court denies the motions without
prejudice based on Intervenor’s failure to provide proper proofs of service. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Intervenor Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Taylor Briscoe’s responses to request for
production of documents, set one. 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Intervenor Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance
Company’s motion to compel Plaintiff Taylor Briscoe’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one. 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Intervenor Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance
Company’s motion to compel Plaintiff Taylor Briscoe’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one. 
Intervenor
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Intervenor
is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.