 Case Number:  22STCV30815    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 21, 2022, Plaintiff George Leong (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Xie Zhijing, Uber Technologies, Inc.
(“Uber”), and Does 1-50 for negligence and motor vehicle tort. 
On
February 15, 2023, Uber filed an answer. 
On
September 26, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel. 
On June
7, 2024, the Court granted Uber’s unopposed motion to deem admitted matters
specified in requests for admission, set one, served on Plaintiff, and granted
Uber’s request for sanctions. 
On
June 27, 2024, Uber filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The motion was set for hearing on August 6,
2024.  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 4, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Uber
asks the Court to grant its motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
LEGAL STANDARD   
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * * 
“(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be
made as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * * 
“(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit. 
* * * 
“(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the
case may be. 
“(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was
granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be. 
“(3) If the motion is granted with respect to the
entire complaint or answer without leave to file an amended complaint or
answer, as the case may be, then judgment shall be entered forthwith in
accordance with the motion granting judgment to the moving party. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b), (c), (d), (h).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential
Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true
all properly pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially
noticed matters. [Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern
California Investors, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE         
          The Court grants Uber’s request for judicial notice of the Court's
June 7, 2024 order granting Uber’s unopposed
motion to deem admitted matters specified in requests for admission, set one,
served on Plaintiff.  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings based on the Court’s June 7,
2024 order granting Uber’s motion to deem admitted matters specified in
requests for admission.  These “deemed
admissions” negate the allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint concerning negligence,
causation, and damages. 
“[I]n
order for judicial notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by
negating an express allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something
that cannot reasonably be controverted.”  (Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat.
Ins. Co. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 457, 468.) 
“The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”  (Ibid.)  “Judicial
notice may conclusively defeat the pleading [for example] where it establishes res
judicata or collateral estoppel. The pleader’s own concession may have this
same conclusive effect.  [¶]  In these limited situations, the court, in
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, properly looks beyond the
pleadings.”  (Id. at p. 469.) 
Here,
the “deemed admissions” cannot reasonably be controverted.  Plaintiff did not oppose Uber’s motion to
deem admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission and Plaintiff
has not moved to withdraw the admissions. 
Therefore,
the Court grants Uber’s motion for judgment on the pleadings based on judicially
noticed “deemed admissions” which negate Plaintiff’s allegations against Uber. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.