 Case Number:  23STCV20082    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the demurring, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.   BACKGROUND  On  August 22, 2023, Plaintiff Raymond Joshua Rios (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Jacob Emilio Sanchez (“Sanchez”), Gregory Santone (“Santone”),  City of Montebello (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), California  Department of Transportation, and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent  entrustment, and dangerous condition of public property.  On  October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants County, City, California  Department of Transportation, Sanchez, Santone, and Does 1-50 for negligence,  negligent entrustment, and dangerous condition of public property.  On  November 28, 2023, the County filed an answer.   On December 29, 2023, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice  at Plaintiff’s request.  On  December 6, 2023, Sanchez and Santone filed an answer and a cross-complaint  against Cross-Defendants City, County, California Department of Transportation,  and Roes 1-20 for equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On December 29,  2023, the Court dismissed the County from the cross-complaint without prejudice  at the request of Sanchez and Santone.  On January 26,  2024, the Court dismissed the City from the cross-complaint without prejudice  at the request of Sanchez and Santone.  On  December 12, 2023, the City filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.  On January 11, 2024, the Court dismissed the  City without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On  December 22, 2023, Defendant The People of the State of California, acting by  and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously sued as California  Department of Transportation (“State”), filed a demurrer to the third cause of  action for dangerous condition of public property in Plaintiff’s first amended  complaint.  The demurrer was set for  hearing on August 2, 2024.  The Court continued  the hearing to August 6, 2024.  On July  24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.   On July 30, 2024, the State filed a reply.  Also  on December 22, 2023, the State filed an answer to the cross-complaint of  Sanchez and Santone.  On  January 23, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant RCS  Safety, LLC, dba Roadway Construction Service as Doe 1 and Doe 26 (“RCS”).  On February 26, 2024, RCS filed an answer to  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants California Department of Transportation and Roes 1-20 for equitable  indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On March 21, 2024, the State filed an answer  to RCS’s cross-complaint.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  The  State asks the Court to sustain its demurrer to Plaintiff’s claim for dangerous  condition of public property.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to overrule the demurrer or grant leave to amend.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Demurrer  “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  * * *  “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.  “(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subds. (e), (f).)  In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground  for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face  thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take  judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the  pleading”].)  “For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate  facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or  law).”  (L. Edmon  and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023)  ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)  "A demurrer may be filed to one of several causes  of action in the complaint, without answering the other causes of  action."  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,  ¶ 7:34.1, p. 7(l)-19.)  B.   Public entity liability for injury caused by dangerous  condition of property  Government  Code section 835 provides:  “Except as provided by statute, a public entity is  liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the  plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the  time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous  condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk  of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:  “(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an  employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the  dangerous condition; or  “(b) The public entity had actual or constructive  notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior  to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous  condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 835.)  Government  Code section 835.2 provides:  “(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous  condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual  knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of  its dangerous character.  “(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a  dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only  if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period  of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the  exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous  character. On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not  limited to evidence as to:  “(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its  dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was  reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection  weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which  failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the  property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or  intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity  actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property.  “(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated  such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 835.2.)            Government Code section 830.2 provides:  “‘Dangerous condition’ means a condition of property  that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or  insignificant) risk of injury when such property . . . is used with due care in  a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov.  Code, § 830, subd. (a).) “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the  meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence  most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created  by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view  of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that  the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property . . . was  used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it  would be used.”  (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)  Government  Code section 830.4 provides:  “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the  meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to provide regulatory  traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way signs, or speed  restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or distinctive roadway  markings as described in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.”  (Gov. Code, § 830.4.)            Government Code section 830.8 provides:  “Neither a public entity nor a public employee is  liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the failure to provide  traffic or warning signals, signs, markings or devices described in the Vehicle  Code. Nothing in this section exonerates a public entity or public employee  from liability for injury proximately caused by such failure if a signal, sign,  marking or device (other than one described in Section 830.4) was necessary to  warn of a dangerous condition which endangered the safe movement of traffic and  which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have been anticipated  by, a person exercising due care.”  (Gov. Code, § 830.8.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The first amended complaint  The first  amended complaint includes the following allegations:          On  or about May 19, 2022, Sanchez negligently drove a motor vehicle into the  intersection of Telegraph Road and the off-ramp of the I-5 Freeway at Exit  126B/Slauson Ave/N, City of Montebello, in Los Angeles County.  Santone owned the vehicle Sanchez was  driving.  Sanchez’s vehicle collided with  the vehicle that Plaintiff was driving on Telegraph Road, injuring Plaintiff.  The State  and other defendants (1) “owned and operated I-5 off ramp at Exit 126B/Slauson  Ave/N, City of Montebello, County of Los Angeles, State of California,” (2) had  a duty to Plaintiff and the general public “to inspect, repair and maintain  their property free of any hazardous, dangerous, and defective conditions,” and  (3) “each Defendant owned, leased, operated, managed, maintained and/or  controlled I-5 Freeway off ramp at Exit 126B/Slauson Ave/N at Telegraph Road.”  Plaintiff  was injured when he encountered a dangerous intersection. The property which  Defendants owned and controlled was unsafe and was a dangerous condition because  it:  a. “lacked  sufficient traffic control devices to control the flow of traffic and allow for  safe passage through the intersection including motorists executing a left  turn.”  b. “failed  to have adequate control devices to control the flow of traffic including  passing through the intersection as well as executing left turns.”  c. “failed  to utilize a traffic control method to include traffic light system to allow  for the safe passage through the intersection including motorists executing a  left turn.”  d. “allowing  an uncontrolled intersection which increased the risk to motorists while  passing through the intersection and/or executing a left turn.”  e. “failing  to control the speed limit thereby allowing vehicles to travel at a high speed  as they approached and entered the intersection.” f. “failing  to provide a clear sight line for vehicles approaching the intersection.”  g. “creating  an unsafe gap in traffic thereby allowing vehicles to enter and pass through  the intersection uncontrolled.” h. “having  a high accident history including fatal collisions at the intersection for  vehicles entering and passing through the intersection including the execution  of left turns.” i. “such  other and further conditions as discovered that created a dangerous roadway and  intersection.”  Defendants  were aware of the defects in the property with sufficient time prior to the accident  to repair the defects or warn Plaintiff of the danger.  B.   The demurrer  Relying  on Government Code sections 830.4 and 830.8 (quoted above), the State argues  that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts  establishing a dangerous condition because the first amended complaint relies  on allegations involving inadequate traffic control devices. Government Code section 830.4 “provides a  shield against liability only in those situations where the alleged dangerous  condition exists solely as a result of the public entity's failure to provide a  regulatory traffic device or street marking. If a traffic intersection is dangerous  for reasons other than the failure to provide regulatory signals or street  markings, the statute provides no immunity.”   (Washington v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 219  Cal.App.3d 1531, 1534-35, emphasis omitted.)  Here,  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges the dangerous condition existed not  only due to inadequate traffic control  devices but also due to the failure to provide a clear sight line for vehicles  approaching the intersection, the creation of an unsafe gap in traffic, and the  high accident history. However, Plaintiff  has not pleaded his additional factors with the required particularity.  (See Keyes v. Santa Clara Valley Water  Dist. (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 882, 886 [a plaintiff must plead with  particularity every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability].)  The complaint does not explain how or in what manner the State  allegedly “fail[ed] to provide a clear sight line for vehicles approaching the  intersection” or “create[ed] an unsafe gap in traffic thereby allowing vehicles  to enter and pass through the intersection uncontrolled.”  If the alleged failure to perform these  actions falls within the immunity provided by Government Code sections  830.4 and 830.8, it cannot support liability.  In  addition, a “high accident history” is not a dangerous condition for purposes of Government Code section 835.  While a high accident history may result from  a dangerous condition, a high accident history cannot, itself, cause an accident or  injury.  The  Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.  CONCLUSION  The  Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant The People of the State of California,  acting by and through the Department of Transportation, to the third cause of  action for dangerous condition of public property in Plaintiff Raymond Joshua Rios’s first amended complaint with 30  days leave to amend.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling within five days.