 Case Number:  24VECV00591    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  W CURTIS A.
JOHNSON vs MARIA L. KILE
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE THE COMPLAINT AND EACH CAUSE OF ACTION
AND DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT 
 
Date of Hearing:        June 13, 2024                                                 Trial Date:       N/A  
Department:              W                                                                    Case No:         24VECV00591 
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Maria L. Kile  
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff
Curtis A. Johnson 

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff Curtis A.
Johnson filed a complaint against Defendant Maria L. Kile for slander, libel,
and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
spoke to third persons about Plaintiff including that Plaintiff protected his
alleged good friend, Rene Tenas, who was accused of molesting girls in his
elementary school class and that Plaintiff took no initiative to protect
students at the school where Plaintiff was principal. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING
 
Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike the
Complaint and Each Cause of Action for Slander, Libel, and Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Maria L. Kile requests this
court take judicial notice of the following documents: (1) Damages for
Negligence filed on August 3, 2022 in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
22STCV25004 (Exh. A); (2) Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. LAVLA087395-01, The
People of the State of California vs. TENAS, RENE (Exh. B); (3) Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. LAVLA097646-01, The People of the State of California
vs. TENAS, RENE (Exh. C); (4) Tenas’ teaching credentials issued by the
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (Exh. D); and (5) LAUSD’s Policy
Bulletin re Protocols and Procedures to Report, Reassign, and Investigate
Allegations of Employee Misconduct, BUL-044381.0 (Exh. E). 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for
judicial notice. 
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of
the demurrer of Defenant Maria L. Kile on April 22, 2024 (Exh. 1). The court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant Maria L. Kile submits
objections to the Declarations of Curtis A. Johnson and Craig B. Forry by
Plaintiff Curtis A. Johnson in opposition to Defendant’s Special Motion to
Strike.
 
Objections Nos. 1 – 10 are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Defendant Maria L. Kile moves to strike
the Complaint for Slander, Libel, and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. Defendant also
seeks attorney fees under 425.16 against Plaintiff and his counsel in the
amount of $17,777.50. 
 
On a special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, also known as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the
initial burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special
motion to strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) First, the court must determine whether moving
parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a
protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech,
under a constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy
v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1,
5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278;
CCP § 425.16(e).) 
 
If the court finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the
cause of action unless the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing on the claim. (CCP §425.16(b)(1); Balzaga v. Fox
News Network, LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.) This means that the
plaintiff must state a legally sufficient claim and must then present evidence
that substantiates or sustains the claim. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer
Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson v. Parker, Covert
& Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate
that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient
prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited”].)
 
i.                   
Defendant’s Burden
 
An act in furtherance of a person's right to petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or California Constitution includes
“(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)
 
In the instant matter, the conduct Plaintiff complains of are
statements Defendant made to third persons regarding Plaintiff’s alleged
knowledge of Tenas’ sexual abuse of students and failure to protect the
students on campus as principal. As alleged, it would appear that such
statements do not fall within the meaning of protected activity within the
meaning of the Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. The allegations are
vague as it is impossible to determine when Defendant made the statements or
under what context Defendant made the statements. 
 
Defendant presents testimony, however, that in November of 2022,
she was contacted while at school and informed that she needed to participate
in an investigation being conducted by the District’s Student Safety
Investigation Team (“SSIT”). (Kile Decl. ¶6.) Defendant was required to
participate and informed the investigation was confidential nor would she be
retaliated against for participating. (Kile Decl. ¶6.) Defendant states the
interview was conducted on the school campus and answered only questions posed
to her. (Kile Decl. ¶6.) Moreover, she did not discuss the interview,
investigation or information requested or provided to the investigators with
anyone. (Kile Decl. ¶6.) In March of 2023, Defendant again was asked to
participate in an interview with SSIT related to the same investigation. (Kile
Decl. ¶7.) Defendant did so and again answered questions that were posed. (Kile
Decl. ¶7.) She did not discuss the interview with anyone nor did she make any
public negative statements about Plaintiff. (Kile Decl. ¶7.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues none of the causes of action are
intended to be alleged against Defendant based on her conduct as an employee of
LAUSD, as a mandated reporter under CANRA, or on statements that may have bene
made during an investigation by LAUSD. Moreover, the complaint is not intended
to be alleged on any lawsuit or any statements made by Defendant in a judicial
or quasi-judicial proceeding. 
 
It is true that vague complaint makes it impossible to determine
if acts “occurred in a place open to the public or in a public forum.” (Turnbull
v. Lucerne Valley Unified School District (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 522, 534.) However,
that does not mean extrinsic evidence cannot be used to clarify whether the
wrongful acts at issue concern protected activity.  (See Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump
Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 95, 111.)  The court finds that defendant has presented
sufficient evidence to establish that the only statements she made were as part
of the administrative investigation and that she made no other statements.  Plaintiff does not counter that evidence with
any evidence that any statement was made by Kile outside of the administrative
process.  Plaintiff’s declaration does
not suffice, since it has no content and provides no contrary evidence.   
 
An action arising from statements made during an administrative
investigation are undoubtedly protected, defendant has met their burden under
the first prong. (See CCP §425.16(e)(1), (2); see also Laker v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 765
holding statements made directly to internal investigators during an
investigation into discrimination are protected.) 
 
ii.                 
Plaintiff’s Burden 
 
On the second component of the analysis, courts employ a
“summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to
the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether
the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein,
LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) In other words, the court does not
assess credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance
of the evidence standard.  The court
accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only
establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as
a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th
at 291.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the absolute
privilege of Civil Code section 47(b) and for failure to comply with Government
Claims Act. Defendant contends because the alleged statements are all in the
context of one or more official proceedings, they are absolutely privileged and
cannot form the basis of any tort. (See Laker, supra, 32
Cal.App.5th at 768.) Moreover, Plaintiff was required to comply with Government
Tort Claims Act as Defendant is a public employee.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues there are no claims against
Defendant as a public employee and moreover, the statements were not made in
the context of a judicial proceeding. Plaintiff provides testimony stating that
none of the causes of action are intended to be alleged against LAUSD or  Defendant as a mandated reporter, for
statements Defendant made during the LAUSD investigation, lawsuit, or judicial
or quasi-judicial proceeding. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has not met their evidentiary burden.
Although a plaintiff need only establish minimal merit, “plaintiff must present
credible evidence that satisfies the standard of proof required by the
substantive law of the cause of action the anti-SLAPP motion challenges.” (De
Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 856.) A
declaration providing testimony that the allegations are not based on the SSIT
investigation does not demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the merits. A
judge must resolve factual conflicts in the plaintiff’s favor, however, a judge
is not required to disregard the defendant's evidence when there is no
conflict. (Litinsky v. Kaplan (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 970, 982-83.) Here,
Plaintiff fails to present any evidence regarding the libelous or slanderous
statements made outside of the investigation process. 
 
Moreover, the court finds the Plaintiff’s claimed barred by Civil
Code section 47(b). The litigation privilege is codified in Civil Code section
47(b) and “immuniz[es] participants from liability for torts arising from
communications made during judicial proceedings[.]” (Silberg v. Anderson
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 214.) The privilege applies to any “communication (1)
made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Id.
at p. 212.) Here, Defendant’s statements made during the SSIT investigation are
privileged. Lastly, “the Legislature included in the Tort Claims Act what
amounts to a requirement that ….. one who sues a public employee on the basis
of acts or omissions in the scope of the defendant's employment have filed a
claim against the public-entity employer pursuant to the procedure for claims
against public entities. [Citations.] Failure to allege compliance renders the
complaint in such an action subject to general demurrer.” (Briggs v.
Lawrence (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 605, 613.) Defendant has presented evidence
the statements were made during her employment as a public school teacher. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike the Complaint and
Each Cause of Action for Slander, Libel, and Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress is GRANTED.
 
iii.               
Attorney Fees 
 
“[A] party who partially prevails on an
anti-SLAPP motion must generally be considered a prevailing party unless the
results of the motion were so insignificant that the party did not achieve any
practical benefit from bringing the motion. The determination whether a party
prevailed on an anti-SLAPP motion lies within the broad discretion of a trial
court.” (Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th
328, 340.) 
 
Defendant is ordered to file a separate
motion for attorney fees. 
 
II.                 
DEMURRER
 
Defendant demurs to each cause of action
on the grounds Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendant, the claims are uncertain and fails to identify a
mandatory duty breached by Defendant. 
 
Pursuant to the ruling in the special motion to
strike, the court finds the demurrer MOOT. 
 
 
 