  Case Number:  23VECV03792    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  W SAJJAD TAKALLOU v. WALMART INC.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT RAFAEL DELGADO TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES 
 
Date of Hearing:        June 13, 2024                                                Trial Date:       None set 

Department:              W                                                                    Case
No:         23VECV03792
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Keon
Hollifield      
Responding
Party:     None
Meet
and Confer:      Attempted 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a motor vehicle collision. On August 30,
2023, Plaintiff Keon Hollifield filed a complaint against Defendant Rafael
Delgado for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
I.                   
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant
Rafael Delgado to Provide Further Responses to Request for Admissions, Set One
is GRANTED. 
II.                 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant
Rafael Delgado to Provide Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
III.               
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT RAFAEL DELGADO TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE
 
Plaintiff Keon Hollifield moves the court for an order compelling
Defendant Rafael Delgado to serve on Plaintiff further answers to Plaintiff’s
Request for Admissions, Set One and for an order imposing a monetary sanction
of $2,560.00 against Defendant Rafael Delgado and his counsel for record Chad
G. Chapman for failure to provide a response. The motion is made on the grounds
Defendant has served evasive objection only responses. 
 
A motion to
compel further responses be brought based on responses to requests for
admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make
unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (CCP §
2033.290(a).)  However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel
the admission of matters already denied.  (Holguin v. Superior Court
(1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.) 
 
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff propounded a set of written
discovery to Defendant Delgado, including Request for Admissions, Set One.
(Green Decl., ¶3, Exh. 1.) Defense requested a 30 day extension to respond to
the discovery, making them due on March 12, 2024. (Green Decl. ¶4, Exh. 2.)
Plaintiff’s counsel agreed. (Green Decl. ¶5, Exh 3.) On March 15, 2024, three
days after the extension had expired, Defendant served objection only responses
to the written discovery. (Green Decl. ¶6, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff sent a meet and
confer letter stating the responses were objection only, which started
Plaintiff’s 45 day to compel. (Grene Decl. ¶7.) Defendant never responded. Upon
review of the Request for Admissions, Set One, the court finds the objections
without merit. 
 
The court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Admission, Set One. 

 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(d) provides for mandatory
monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2033.290(d).)   
 
Plaintiff requests $2,560.00 in sanctions for 3 hours preparing
the motion, 1 hour in anticipation of reviewing opposition and preparing reply,
and 1 hour attending the hearing we as well as the $60 filing fee. Counsel’s
hourly rate is $500. 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,560.00.  
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL
DEFENDANT RAFAEL DELGADO TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
 
Plaintiff Keon Hollifield moves the court for an order compelling
Defendant Rafael Delgado to serve on Plaintiff further answers to Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One and for an order
imposing a monetary sanction of $3,560.00 against Defendant Rafael Delgado and
his counsel for record Chad G. Chapman for failure to provide a response. The
motion is made on the grounds Defendant has served non-compliant
responses.  
 
A motion to
compel further responses to form or specially prepared interrogatories may be
brought if the responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete;
(2) an unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)   
 
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff propounded a set of written
discovery to Defendant Delgado, including Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One. (Green Decl., ¶3, Exh. 1.) Defense requested
a 30-day extension to respond to the discovery, making them due on March 12,
2024. (Green Decl. ¶4, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel agreed. (Green Decl. ¶5,
Exh 3.) On March 15, 2024, three days after the extension had expired,
Defendant served objection only responses to the written discovery. (Green
Decl. ¶6, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter stating the
responses were objection only, which started Plaintiff’s 45 day to compel.
(Grene Decl. ¶7.) Defendant never responded. (Green Decl. ¶8.) 
 
The court finds the objections without merit. As for the Form
Interrogatories, these requests are not so vague, overbroad, or irrelevant.
They seek background information and information regrading the incident.
Moreover, none of them request attorney client privileged responses. Similarly,
the objections to Special Interrogatories, Set One are without merit. The
information sought is relevant and discoverable. 
 
The court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One.  
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d) provides that for
mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP
§2030.300(d).)   
 
Plaintiff requests $3,560.00 in sanctions for 5 hours preparing
the motion, 1 hour in anticipation of reviewing opposition and preparing reply,
and 1 hour attending the hearing we as well as the $60 filing fee. Counsel’s
hourly rate is $500. 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,060.00.  
 
III.               
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Plaintiff Keon Hollifield moves the court for an order compelling
Defendant Rafael Delgado to serve on Plaintiff answer to Plaintiff’s Request
for Production of Documents, Set One and for an order imposing monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,560.00 against Defendant Delgado and his counsel
of record, Chad G. Chapman for failure to provide code-compliant, substantive
responses. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or
production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further production must set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand. (See CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the
motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good
cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the
discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise
at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65
Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1).)
 
As noted above, on January 9, 2024, Plaintiff propounded a set of
written discovery to Defendant Delgado, including Request for Production of
Documents, Set One. (Green Decl., ¶3, Exh. 1.) Defense requested a 30-day
extension to respond to the discovery, making them due on March 12, 2024.
(Green Decl. ¶4, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel agreed. (Green Decl. ¶5, Exh 3.)
On March 15, 2024, three days after the extension had expired, Defendant served
objection only responses to the written discovery. (Green Decl. ¶6, Exh. 4.)
Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter stating the responses were objection
only, which started Plaintiff’s 45 day to compel. (Grene Decl. ¶7.) Defendant
never responded. (Green Decl. ¶8.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the
documents. They are relevant and material to this litigation involving a motor
vehicle collision. Moreover, the objections are without merit. Defendant
submits boilerplate objections without any effort to actually respond to the
demand. 
 
The court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.  
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for mandatory
monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)   
 
Plaintiff requests $2,560.00 in sanctions for 3 hours preparing
the motion, 1 hour in anticipation of reviewing opposition and preparing reply,
and 1 hour attending the hearing we as well as the $60 filing fee. Counsel’s
hourly rate is $500. 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $560.00.  
 
 