 Case Number:  22STCV11579    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Maez Restaurant Group LLC
Resp. Party:    Defendants Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and
Heriberto Camacho   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 2, 7, 12, 16, and 19 and Request for Monetary
Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Maez Restaurant Group LLC
Resp. Party:    Defendants Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and
Heriberto Camacho   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Subpoena for Production
of Records
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Heriberto Camacho   
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Joe Maez, Hunter Maez, and Maez
Restaurant Group LLC   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
Moving Party: Defense
Counsel Mark J. Skapik and Skapik Law Group
Resp. Party:    None   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
Moving Party: Defense
Counsel Mark J. Skapik and Skapik Law Group
Resp. Party:    None   
 
 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel are DENIED. 
 
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The subpoena
issued to Non-Party Bank of America is QUASHED. 
 
        The Parties are ORDERED to
meet and confer regarding production of sufficient documents to show the
required information and/or a stipulation as to the required information. 
 
The Further SROGs Motion is GRANTED.
Defendants shall provide further responses to the SROGs at issue within seven
(7) days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
Attorney’s
fees and costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC and
against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Defense Counsel, jointly
and severally, in the amount of $3,835.00.  Defendants’ Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is
GRANTED in part. Summary adjudication is GRANTED to the fifth cause of action
in the First Amended Verified Complaint, and to the second and third affirmative
defenses in the Verified Answer, in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group
LLC and against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. Summary adjudication
is DENIED to the first cause of action in the First Amended Verified Complaint.

 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On April 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Joe Maez,
Hunter Maez, and Maez Restaurant Group LLC filed their Verified Complaint
against Defendants Heriberto Camacho, Jr. and Restaurant Design Studio Corp. on
causes of action arising from Defendants’ renovation of Plaintiffs’ property. 
 
        On November 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their First Amended Verified Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
        On December 12, 2022, Defendants filed
their Verified Answer to the FAC. 
 
        On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC filed its Motion for Summary Adjudication (“MSA”). In
support of its MSA, Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Jason Riddick; (2) Declaration of Hunter Maez; (3) Declaration
of Joe Maez; (4) Separate Volume of Evidence; (5) Separate Statement; (6)
Request for Judicial Notice; and (7) Proof of Service. 
 
        On August 23, 2023, for each Defendant,
Defense Counsel (Mark J. Skapik and Skapik Law Group) filed: (1) MC-051, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2) MC-052, Declaration;
and (3) MC-053, Proposed Order. 
 
        On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC filed Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 2, 7, 12, 16, and 19 and Request for Monetary Sanctions
(“Further SROGs Motion”). In support of its Further SROGs Motion, Plaintiff
Maez Restaurant Group LLC concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jason Riddick;
(2) Index of Exhibits; (3) Separate Statement; and (4) Proposed Order. 
 
        On October 17, 2023, Defendants filed
their Motion to Quash Subpoena for Production of Records (“Motion to Quash”).
In support of their Motion to Quash, Defendants concurrently filed their
Separate Statement. 
 
        On October 26, 2023, Defendants filed
their Opposition to the Further SROGs Motion. In support of their Opposition to
the Further SROGs Motion, Defendants concurrently filed Declaration of Mark J.
Skapik. Defendants’ Opposition to the Further SROGs Motion includes a Request
for Sanctions. 
 
        On October 27, 2023, Defendants filed
their Opposition to the MSA. In support of their Opposition to the MSA,
Defendants concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Tito Camacho; and (2) Opposition
to Separate Statement. 
 
        On October 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their Opposition to the Motion to Quash. In support of their Opposition to the
Motion to Quash, Plaintiffs concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jason
Riddick; and (2) Response to Separate Statement. 
 
        On November 2, 2023, Defendants filed
their Reply regarding the Motion to Quash. 
 
        On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC filed its Reply regarding the Further SROGs Motion. 
 
        On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC filed its Reply regarding the MSA. In support of its Reply
regarding the MSA, Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC concurrently filed: (1)
Supplemental Declaration of Jason Riddick; and (2) Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Tito Camacho.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
        The Court first concurrently
considers the Motions to be Relieved as Counsel. The Court then consecutively
considers the Motion to Quash, the Further SROGs Motion, and the MSA. 
 
I.         
Motions to be Relieved as Counsel
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
An attorney moving to be relieved as counsel under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) must meet the requirements set out in California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. 
 
To comply with rule 3.1362, the moving party must submit the following
forms: (1) Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; (2)
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel; and (3)
Order Granting Attorney's Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) 
 
The moving party must serve the aforementioned forms on the client and
all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d).) Further, when the client is served by mail, the attorney's
declaration must show that the client's address was confirmed within the last
30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.) 

 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request for
withdrawal should be granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.) 
 
B.      Discussion
 
Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel complies with all of the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, in that Counsel
provided notice of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel, a proposed
order granting attorney’s motions to be relieved as counsel, and a declaration
in support of the motion to be relieved as counsel. 
 
Defense Counsel’s declarations state that there are “[i]rreconcilable
differences between the Defendants and Defendants’ current counsel of record.”
(MC-052.) There is no further clarity from Defense Counsel on what these
differences are or whether they require a mandatory withdrawal. 
 
Trial is scheduled for December 18, 2023 — approximately one month from
the hearing on these motions. A withdrawal at this point would pose a high risk
of prejudice to Defendants, who would be unlikely to find new counsel in time
to adequately represent them. Further, Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp.
faces an even greater risk of prejudice because, aside from narrow exceptions
such as in small claims court, the California Supreme Court has long held that
corporations cannot represent themselves in propria persona. (Merco
Constr. Eng’rs, Inc. v. Mun. Ct. (1978) 21 Cal.3d.724, 730.)
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel are DENIED. 
 
 
II.      
Motion to Quash
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
California Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a) states:
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
 
Courts have considerable discretion in
granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Super. Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants move the Court to quash the
Plaintiffs’ amended subpoena for production of documents, which was issued to
Non-Party Bank of America on October 11, 2023. (Motion to Quash, p. 10:18–26
and Exh. A.1.
 
The documents requested in the subpoena are: 
 
(1)       For account number 325119828230, all account
opening/origination documents, including but not limited to agreements and
financial statements. 
 
(2)       For account number 325119828230, all
signature cards identifying all persons authorized to sign for account number
325119828230. 
 
(3)       For account number 325119828230, all bank
statements (in unredacted form and reflecting all account activity), cancelled
checks, all check images (front and back), deposit slips, and wire
confirmations, all for the time period September 1, 2019 to the present. 
 
(4)       For account number 325119828230, all
documents pertaining to wire transfers sent or received between September 1,
2019 to the present, by any person authorized to sign for the account,
including but not limited to Fed Wire, CHIPS, SWIFT, or other money transfer
documents (such as ACH transactions); documents (checks, debit memos, cash in
tickers, wires in, etc.) reflecting the source of the funds wired out;
documents (checks, credit memos, cash out tickets, wires out, etc.) reflecting
the ultimate disposition within the bank of the funds wired in; and notes,
memoranda, or other writings pertaining to the sending or receipt of wire
transfers.
 
(Motion to Quash, Exh. A.1, Attachment 3.)
 
        The Court already twice
denied Plaintiffs’ requests for overly-broad, privacy-invasive requests for
financial records. (See Minute Orders dated February 24, 2023, pp. 23–26 and
June 27, 2023, pp. 9–11.)
 
        The Court first wrote: “The
Court finds that it would not be appropriate to issue an order permitting
discovery into the financial condition of the Defendants. Defendants’ arguments
about privacy outweigh Plaintiffs’ need to obtain the discovery requested.”
(Minute Order dated February 24, 2023, p. 25.)
 
        In its second order, the
Court then wrote: “. . . the Court already denied these exact same RPDs.
(Minute Order dated February 24, 2023, pp. 24–26.) . . . The new Motion to
Compel does not present any argument for Plaintiff’s need to obtain the
discovery outweighs Defendant’s privacy.” (Minute Order dated June 27, 2023,
pp. 9–10.)
 
        Plaintiffs argue that the
discovery requested here is much more narrowly tailored than the prior
requests, as the subpoena is limited to corporate bank records from a single
account. (Opposition to Motion to Quash, p. 1:12–16.) Plaintiffs further argue
that there is “no less intrusive means of obtaining records of how much of
Plaintiffs [sic] money Camacho caused RDSC to transfer or pay out to himself or
subcontractors personally, because Camacho refuses to answer any deposition
questions or interrogatories concerning these topic [sic] (other than to admit
that he received some of the funds and vaguely stating he paid money to subs.)”
(Id. at p. 1:16–20.)
 
        The Court disagrees with
Plaintiffs’ arguments. While Plaintiffs are entitled to documents sufficient to
prove punitive damages and other penalties, the subpoena requests – for the
third time – are clearly overbroad and violative of Defendants’ right to
privacy. 
 
        The Court notes that Defendants
have not sought a protective order pursuant to Civil Code section 3295(a), nor
have Defendants sought an order bifurcating trial as to the issue of punitive
damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3295 (d). Plaintiffs are entitled to
certain information, documents, and witnesses under Civil Code section 3295(c),
prior to any court order. Defendants should understand that the Court’s privacy
concerns do not diminish Plaintiffs’ rights to discover evidence necessary to
present their case. 
 
        The Court GRANTS the Motion
to Quash. The Court QUASHES the subpoena issued to Non-Party Bank of America. 
 
        The Court ORDERS the Parties
to meet and confer regarding production of sufficient documents to show the
required information and/or a stipulation as to the required information. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The subpoena
issued to Non-Party Bank of America is QUASHED. 
 
        The Parties are ORDERED to
meet and confer regarding production of sufficient documents to show the
required information and/or a stipulation as to the required information. 
 
III.    
Further SROGs Motion
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
On receipt of a
response to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and/or demand
requests, the propounding and/or demanding party “may move for an order
compelling further response” if: (1) the response is evasive or incomplete; (2)
the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive; or (3) the objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
The court shall
impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further interrogatories
and/or a motion to compel further production of documents, unless the Court
finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
1.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC moves the
Court to: (1) order Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. to provide further
verified responses to special interrogatories (“SROGs”) 2, 7, 12, 16, and 19;
and (2) award monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group
LLC and against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Defense Counsel,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $4,681.00. (Further SROGs Motion, p.
8:14–20.)
 
Defendants oppose the Further SROGs Motion,
arguing: (1) that the motion should be denied because Plaintiffs have not
satisfied the requirements of Civil Code section 3295(c); (2) that Plaintiffs
have not proven a substantial likelihood of prevailing on their claim pursuant
to Penal Code section 496(a); and (3) that Plaintiffs cannot establish that the
requested financial documents are fundamental to their case. (Opposition to
Further SROGs Motion, pp. 7:3–4, 7:13–14, 10:24–25.)
 
In its Reply, Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group
LLC argues: (1) that the information requested in the SROGs must be provided;
(2) that Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c) does not apply because the
interrogatories do not seek to ascertain the financial condition of either
Defendant nor probe the “profits gained by any Defendant on account of the
Wrongful Course of Conduct”; and (3) that Defendant Restaurant Design Studio
Corp. has waived its privacy objections. (Reply regarding Further SROGs Motion,
pp. 1:12–20, 4:7–9, 6:8.)
 
2.      The
SROGs at Issue
 
The following are
the SROGs at issue:
 
Special Interrogatory No. 2 
 
In YOUR verified response to Requests For Admission No. 17, YOU
admitted “that RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. paid Tito Camacho some of the
money provided to RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP by MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC.”
As to the monies that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC paid to defendant
RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. and that defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO
CORP. in turn paid to defendant TITO CAMACHO, describe each transfer of such
monies through indicating the last four digits of the account number of the transferor
account, and the date, FORM and amount of the transfer.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 7 
 
As to each bank account of defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. to
which it deposited the monies that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered
to defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue,
San Dimas, California 91773, describe each withdrawal or other subtraction of
such monies (that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered to defendant
RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP.) from such accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD
[May 9, 2019 to the present] that constituted a shareholder distribution
through indicating the date, the FORM, and the amount of each withdrawal or
other subtraction of monies.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 12 
 
As to each bank account of defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. to
which it deposited the monies that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered
to defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue,
San Dimas, California 91773, describe each withdrawal or other subtraction of
monies from such accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD [May 9, 2019 to the
present] for purposes of tendering same to Joseph Zang in connection with
materials, equipment or services RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue, San Dimas,
California 91773, through indicating the date, the FORM, and the amount of each
withdrawal or other subtraction of monies.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 16 
 
As to each bank account of defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. to
which it deposited the monies that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered
to defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue,
San Dimas, California 91773, describe each withdrawal or other subtraction of
monies from such accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD [May 9, 2019 to the
present] for purposes of tendering same to Fred Tagudar in connection with
materials, equipment or services RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue, San Dimas,
California 91773, through indicating the date, the FORM, and the amount of each
withdrawal or other subtraction of monies.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 19 
 
As to each bank account of defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. to
which it deposited the monies that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered
to defendant RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP. RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita Avenue,
San Dimas, California 91773, describe each withdrawal or other subtraction of
such monies (that plaintiff MAEZ RESTAURANT GROUP LLC tendered to defendant
RESTAURANT DESIGN STUDIO CORP.) from such accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD
[May 9, 2019 to the present] for purposes of tendering same to Ricardo Naves in
connection with materials, equipment or services RELATED TO 217 W. Bonita
Avenue, San Dimas, California 91773, through indicating the date, the FORM, and
the amount of each withdrawal or other subtraction of monies.
 
(Separate Statement, pp. 2–19.)
 
3.      Discussion
 
These SROGs only request specific information
about money that went from Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. to (a)
Defendant Camacho, (b) shareholders, (c) Joseph Zang, (d) Fred Tagudar, and/or
(e) Ricardo Naves. The information requested – the amount of the transfer, the
date of the transfer, the form of the transfer, the last four digits of account
number from which the transfer is made, and the person to which the transfer is
made – is germane to the issues in this matter. The disclosure of this
information to Plaintiffs does not unnecessarily invade Defendants’ privacy. 
 
Unlike other discovery requests denied earlier
this year and the subpoena considered previously in this Order, these five
SROGs are narrowly tailored. 
 
        Further, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC correctly notes that this information is not prohibited by
Civil Code section 3295(c). This is not information about Defendants’ financial
condition; this is information narrowly focused on financial transfers between
Defendants, and between Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and a limited,
specified group of non-parties. 
 
        Even if this information
were covered by Civil Code section 3295(c), the court finds that Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC has established that there is a substantial probability
that Plaintiffs will prevail on their claims pursuant to Civil Code section
3294. (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).) This finding shall not be considered to
be a determination on the merits of the claim or any defense thereto and shall
not be given in evidence or referred to at the trial. (Ibid.)
 
 
        The Court GRANTS the Further
SROGs Motion. Defendants shall provide further responses to the SROGs at issue
within seven (7) days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
4.      Sanctions
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC requests
monetary sanctions against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Defense
Counsel, jointly and severally. (Further SROGs Motion, p. 8:14–20.)
 
Defendants request monetary sanctions against
Plaintiffs. (Opposition to Further SROGs Motion, p. 11:22–27.)
 
        The Court does not have
sufficient evidence before it that would indicate Defendant Restaurant Design
Studio Corp. or Defense Counsel acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of a monetary sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd.
(d), 2031.310, subd. (h).) Thus, the Court must impose a monetary sanction on
them. (Ibid.) 
 
It is not uncommon for courts to compare
opposing counsel’s fees to help determine whether the moving party’s fees are
reasonable. That is because a “comparative analysis of each side’s respective
litigation costs may be a useful check on the reasonableness of any fee
request.”¿¿(Mountjoy v. Bank of Am., N.A.¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 266,
273, 281, quoting Donahue v. Donahue¿(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 259, 272.)¿
 
“[T]here is one particularly good indicator of
how much time is necessary [for the purpose of determining reasonableness of
attorneys’ fees] . . . and that is how much time the other side’s lawyers
spent. . . . [S]uch a comparison is a useful guide in evaluating the
appropriateness of time claimed. If the time claimed by the prevailing party is
of a substantially greater magnitude than what the other side spent, that often
indicates that too much time is claimed. Litigation has something of the tennis
game, something of war, to it; if one side hits the ball, or shoots heavy artillery,
the other side necessarily spends time hitting the ball or shooting heavy
artillery back.” (Democratic Party of Washington State v. Reed (9th¿Cir.
2004) 388 F.3d 1281, 1287.)
 
        Here,
Plaintiffs’ Counsel requested $4,681.00 in attorney’s fees and costs, based on twelve
hours of work at $385.00 per hour, plus $61.00 in costs. (Decl. Riddick re:
Further SROGs Motion, ¶ 13.)
 
        In
contrast, Defense Counsel requested $6,195.00 in attorney’s fees and costs,
based on twenty-one hours of work at $295.00 per hour. (Decl. Skapik re:
Opposition to Further SROGs Motion, ¶ 15.) Subtracting the eight hours listed
for the Motion to Quash, defense counsel is requesting attorney's fees of $3,835.00
for this motion.
 
While the Court
might normally think that $3,835.00 is excessive, the Parties’ Counsel appear
to believe that this is an appropriate amount. 
 
        The
Court AWARDS attorney’s fees and costs in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant
Group LLC and against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Defense
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $3,835.00. 
 
        The
Court DENIES Defendants’ Request for Sanctions. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
        The Further SROGs Motion is
GRANTED. Defendants shall provide further responses to the SROGs at issue
within seven (7) days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
Attorney’s
fees and costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC and
against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. and Defense Counsel, jointly
and severally, in the amount of $3,835.00. 
 
        Defendants’
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
IV.     
Motion for Summary Adjudication 
 
A.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC filed
objections to Defendants’ evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on
these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


SUSTAINED


 




2


SUSTAINED


 




 
B.      Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC requests
that the Court take judicial notice of Permit Number BD2228892, issued by the
City of San Dimas Department of Building and Safety on May 9, 2022. 
 
The Court GRANTS judicial notice of this
item. However, “[w]hile courts
take judicial notice of public records, they do not take notice of matters
stated therein.” (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank Nat’l Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375, citing Love v. Wolf (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 378,
403.) “When judicial notice is taken of a document, however, the truthfulness
and proper interpretations of the document are disputable.” (StorMedia Inc.
v. Super. Ct. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 449, fn. 9, citing Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins.
Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.) 

 
C.      Legal
Standard
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that
the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since
the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom
the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that
the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
D.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC moves for
summary adjudication in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC and
against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. on the following five issues:
 
(1)       the first cause of
action for breach of contract, regarding the construction contract;
 
(2)       the first cause of
action for breach of contract, regarding the restaurant equipment contract; 
 
(3)       the fifth cause of
action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 7031;
 
(4)       the second
affirmative defense of violation of the statute of frauds; and
 
(5)       the third
affirmative defense of statute of limitations. 
 
(MSA, pp. 12–14.)
 
1.      Breach
of Contract
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
W. Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) 
 
“In an action
based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the
contract rather than its precise language.” (Constr. Protection Servs., Inc.
v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC claims that
it is entitled to summary adjudication of its first cause of action for breach
of contract, on both the construction contract and the restaurant equipment
contract. (MSA, p. 13:1–19.) 
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC has: (1)
submitted a copy of the alleged construction contract (Separate Volume of
Evidence, Exh. 6); (2) submitted a copy of the alleged restaurant equipment
contract; (3) provided declaratory evidence that these are valid contracts
(Decl. Joe Maez, ¶¶ 3–4); (4) provided declaratory and documentary evidence
that Plaintiffs performed under the contracts (Decl. Joe Maez, ¶¶ 5–10;
Separate Volume of Evidence, Exhs. 8–10); (5) provided declaratory evidence
that Defendants did not perform under the contracts (Decl. Joe Maez, ¶¶ 13–14;
Decl. Hunter Maez, ¶ 4); and (6) provided documentary evidence of Plaintiffs’
damages (Separate Volume of Evidence, Exhs. 9–10). 
 
        Defendants argue: (1) that
Plaintiffs did not prove with sufficient evidence that the Parties entered into
a contract, and thus the burden has not shifted to Defendants; (2) that
Plaintiffs did not prove with sufficient evidence that they performed their
duties pursuant to the contract, and thus the burden has not shifted to
Defendants; (3) that there is evidence Plaintiffs are actually the ones who
breached the contracts because they need to have a building plan and a building
permit, neither of which they had when they fired Defendants; (4) that there is
a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendants’ breach was a
substantial factor in causing damages to Plaintiffs; and (5) that Plaintiffs
entirely caused their own harms. (Opposition to MSA, pp. 7:4–28, 8:1–27.)
 
        Plaintiffs have met their
initial burden of proof regarding the first cause of action for breach of
contract, including that there were contracts and that Plaintiffs performed
under the contracts. Further, Defendants submit evidence that there were in
fact contracts between the Parties and that Plaintiffs had paid Defendants.
(Decl. Camacho, ¶¶ 2, 5–6, 8, 11.) 
 
        However, Defendant Heriberto
Camacho declares that he could not perform under the construction contract or
the equipment purchasing contract because the permits had not yet been issued
and “[i]n order to conduct construction work on Joe and Hunter Maez’s
restaurant, permits had to be issued by the City of San Dimas.” (Decl. Camacho,
¶¶ 9, 11.) Defendant Heriberto Camacho further declares that “it was understood
by all parties to the restaurant equipment proposal that there was no need to
order the equipment under this proposal until the plans were approved”. (Id.
at ¶ 6.)
 
According to Defendant Heriberto Camacho,
there were multiple contracts and/or proposals: (1) a “contract” for designing
and planning the construction and remodel of the interior of a restaurant which
was paid in full by Joe Maez and Hunter Maez (Decl. Camacho, ¶ 2); (2) a
“proposal” for the actual construction of the interior of that restaurant  which apparently became a “contract” that
Defendant Heriberto Camacho was later “fired” from around late April or early
May of 2021 (Decl. Camacho, ¶¶ 3, 5, 7); (3) a “proposal” for the purchase of
restaurant equipment for that restaurant (Decl. Camacho, ¶¶ 4, 6, 8); and (4) a
“contract” for the design of the exterior of the restaurant, under an “oral
promise that [Defendant Heriberto Camacho] would be given the construction job
for the exterior of the restaurant as well” — from which Defendant Heriberto
Camacho would be “fired” and “re-hired by Joe and Hunter Maez to finish the
work pursuant to our oral agreement, which expanded the scope of work under the
original proposal to also include exterior construction and design.” (Decl.
Camacho, ¶¶ 5, 8). 
 
        While this declaratory
evidence would normally be too lacking in foundation to be admissible, the
issues here involve allegations of multiple oral contracts and parole evidence
of such contracts. Even Plaintiff has only submitted unsigned contracts, which
affirm the need for declaratory (as opposed to solely documentary) evidence. 
 
        According to the evidence
submitted by Defendants, there were three contracts: (1) the contract for
designing the interior of the restaurant; (2) the contract for construction of
the interior of the restaurant; and (3) the contract for the design and
construction of the exterior of the restaurant. According to the evidence
submitted by Defendants, the restaurant equipment contract was actually just a
proposal. Further, it is notable that none of the written contracts submitted
include language that explicitly required Plaintiffs to obtain permits prior to
any construction work was done or any restaurant equipment was purchased. 
 
        Upon considering the
evidence submitted, Defendants have met their subsequent burden in
demonstrating that there are triable issues of material fact regarding both the
“construction contract” and the “restaurant equipment contract.” 
 
As to the “construction contract,” triable
issues of material fact include, but are not limited to: (1) what exactly the
construction contract(s) was/were; (2) whether permits were required prior to
any construction, or whether some construction could have begun prior to
obtaining permits; (3) what exactly Plaintiffs’ damages were on these
contracts; and (4) whether Plaintiffs breached these contracts first by firing
Defendants before they could perform on these contracts. 
 
As to the “restaurant equipment contract,”
triable issues of material fact include, but are not limited to: (1) whether
there was actually a contract for the purchase of restaurant equipment; and (2)
whether Plaintiffs suffered any damages under this contract. 
 
        The Court DENIES the Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of
contract. 
 
2.      Business
and Professions Code Section 7031
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“Except as
provided in subdivision (e), no person engaged in the business or acting in the
capacity of a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law
or equity in any action, in any court of this state for the collection of
compensation for the performance of any act or contract where a license is
required by this chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed
contractor at all times during the performance of that act or contract
regardless of the merits of the cause of action brought by the person, except
that this prohibition shall not apply to contractors who are each individually
licensed under this chapter but who fail to comply with Section 7029.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (a).)
 
“Except as
provided in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of an
unlicensed contractor may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction in this state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed
contractor for performance of any act or contract.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
7031, subd. (b).)
 
“If licensure or
proper licensure is controverted, then proof of licensure pursuant to this
section shall be made by production of a verified certificate of licensure from
the Contractors State License Board which establishes that the individual or
entity bringing the action was duly licensed in the proper classification of
contractors at all times during the performance of any act or contract covered
by the action. Nothing in this subdivision shall require any person or entity
controverting licensure or proper licensure to produce a verified certificate.
When licensure or proper licensure is controverted, the burden of proof to
establish licensure or proper licensure shall be on the licensee.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (d).)
 
“The judicial
doctrine of substantial compliance shall not apply under this section where the
person who engaged in the business or acted in the capacity of a contractor has
never been a duly licensed contractor in this state. However, notwithstanding
subdivision (b) of Section 143, the court may determine that there has been
substantial compliance with licensure requirements under this section if it is
shown at an evidentiary hearing that the person who engaged in the business or
acted in the capacity of a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as a
contractor in this state prior to the performance of the act or contract, (2)
acted reasonably and in good faith to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted
promptly and in good faith to remedy the failure to comply with the licensure
requirements upon learning of the failure.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031,
subd. (e).)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC argues:
(1) that Defendants were never licensed contractors; (2) that Defendants took
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC’s $125,000.00 deposit; (3) never performed
construction work; and (4) did not refund the money. (MSA, p. 12:14–23.)
 
        Plaintiff Maez Restaurant
Group LLC provides declaratory and documentary that: (1) there was a
construction contract; (2) that Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC paid Defendants
$125,000.00; (3) that Defendants did not perform construction work; and (4)
that Defendants did not return the money. In addition, Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC submits to the Court Defendants’ requests for admissions,
which among other things include admissions that Defendant Restaurant Design
Studio Corp. deposited hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks from
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC. (Supplemental Decl. Riddick, Exh. A.)
 
Further, “[w]hen licensure or proper
licensure is controverted, the burden of proof to establish licensure or proper
licensure shall be on the licensee.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd.
(d).)
 
        Plaintiff Maez Restaurant
Group LLC meets its initial burden as to the fifth cause of action for
violation of Business and Professions Code section 7031.
 
        Defendants argue in
response: (1) that there can be no violation of Business and Professions Code
section 7031 because Defendants were fired before any construction work could
take place; and (2) that summary adjudication is not appropriate here because
adjudication on this claim of damages would wholly dispose of the cause of
action. (Opposition to MSA, p. 9:5–13.) Notably, Defendants do not: (1) provide
any proof of having ever been licensed; (2) dispute that they received
$125,000.00 from Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC; or (3) dispute that they
have not returned the $125,000.00. 
 
        The Court disagrees with Defendants’
arguments. 
 
        First, the statute does not
require that any work actually take place before an action can be brought in
court. Rather, the text of the statute clearly allows “a person who utilizes
the services of an unlicensed contractor . . . to recover all compensation paid
to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or contract.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (b).) In this
situation, where Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC paid Defendants
$125,000.00 for the performance construction work that they were not licensed
to do, Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC is entitled to recover all of that
compensation paid. 
 
        Second,
Defense Counsel misrepresents to the Court what is allowed by the Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c. (Opposition to MSA, p. 9:9–13 [mistakenly referred to
by defense counsel also mistakenly as the Civil Code rather than the Code of
Civil Procedure.])  The statute clearly
allows a party to “move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action . . . . A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1), emphasis added.) Contrary to Defense Counsel’s
argument, subdivision (t) – which requires, among other things, a joint
stipulation from the Parties stating the issue or issues to be adjudicated – is
not at issue here. Even if it were, the text of that subdivision explicitly
notes that “a party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue
or a claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely dispose
of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty”. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (t), emphasis added.) Every definition of “may” means that the
act is allowed, not that it is prohibited. 
 
        Defendants have not met
their subsequent burden as to the fifth cause of action. 
 
        The Court GRANTS summary
adjudication on the fifth cause of action for violation of Business and
Professions Code section 7031 in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC
and against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp.
 
3.      Statute
of Frauds and Statute of Limitations
 
Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC moves for
summary adjudication on Defendants’ affirmative defenses for statute of frauds
and statute of limitations. (MSA, pp. 13:21–22, 14:8–9.)
 
Defendants do not oppose summary adjudication
on these two affirmative defenses. (Opposition to MSA, p. 9:2–4.)
 
The Court GRANTS summary adjudication on the
second and third affirmative defenses, for statute of frauds and statute of
limitations, respectively, in favor of Plaintiff Maez Restaurant Group LLC and
against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp.
 
E.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is
GRANTED in part. 
 
Summary adjudication is GRANTED to the fifth
cause of action in the First Amended Verified Complaint, and to the second and
third affirmative defenses in the Verified Answer, in favor of Plaintiff Maez
Restaurant Group LLC and against Defendant Restaurant Design Studio Corp. 
 
        Summary adjudication is
DENIED to the first cause of action in the First Amended Verified Complaint. 
 