  Case Number:  20STCV00320    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for a
New Trial on the Issue of Damages or, in the Alternative, Remittitur
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia
                                    
SUBJECT:        Motion to Tax
Costs
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia
 
 
The Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED. 
 
The Motion for
New Trial is GRANTED. 
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be held,
unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages to a total
amount of $125,000.00.
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be
held, unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages to a
total amount of $50,000.00.
 
        Plaintiffs
shall each have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order
during which they may individually consent to their respective reduction of
damages set forth above. Failure to respond shall be deemed a rejection of the
reduction of damages, and a new trial limited to the issue of the rejecting
plaintiff’s damages shall be automatically granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,
subd. (b).) If a plaintiff chooses to accept the reduction of damages, that
plaintiff shall concurrently serve and submit to the Court a proposed amended
judgment reflecting the modified judgment amount. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,
subd. (c).)
 
The Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED
in part. Costs are TAXED by $4,870.00. Costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs
and against Defendant in the total amount of $94,595.66.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On January 3, 2020, Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred
Garcia filed their Complaint against Defendant City of Los Angeles on causes of
action for discrimination and retaliation, both in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”). 
 
From July 5 to 12, 2023, the Court held a jury trial in
this matter. The Jury found in favor of both Plaintiffs and against Defendant
on both causes of action. For Plaintiff Stephen Glick, the Jury found
$8,621,358.00 in damages, which consisted of $5,000,000.00 in past non-economic
damages, $3,000,000.00 in future non-economic damages, and $621,358.00 in
future economic damages. For Plaintiff Alfred Garcia, the Jury found
$4,500,000.00 in damages, which consisted of $3,000,000.00 in past non-economic
damages and $1,500,000.00 in future non-economic damages. 
 
On September 20, 2023, the Court entered judgment in this
matter. 
 
On October 5, 2023, Defendant filed: (1) Notice of Intent
to Move for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict; and (2) Notice of Intention
to Move for New Trial. 
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Judicial
Council Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs (Summary). 
 
On October 13, 2023, Defendant filed: (1) Memorandum of
Points and Authorities for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict (“Motion for
JNOV”); and (2) Memorandum of Points and Authorities Supporting the Motion for
a New Trial on the Issue of Damages (“Motion for New Trial”). In support of
each of the motions, Defendant concurrently filed a supporting declaration. In
addition, Defendant concurrently filed a proposed order for the Motion for New
Trial.
 
On October 19, 2023, Defendant filed its Motion to Tax
Costs. In support of this motion, Defendant filed a declaration. 
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Oppositions
to the Motion for JNOV and the Motion for New Trial. In support of these
oppositions, Plaintiffs concurrently filed declarations. 
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to
the Motion to Tax Costs. 
 
On November 1, 2023, Defendant filed its Replies
regarding the Motion for JNOV and Motion for New Trial. 
 
No reply or other response has been filed regarding the
Motion to Tax Costs. 

 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion
for JNOV
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The court,
before the expiration of its power to rule on a motion for a new trial, either
of its own motion, after five days’ notice, or on motion of a party against
whom a verdict has been rendered, shall render judgment in favor of the
aggrieved party notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed
verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion
been made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 629, subd. (a).)
 
“The trial judge’s power to grant a judgment
notwithstanding the verdict is identical to his power to grant a directed
verdict. The trial judge cannot weigh the evidence, or judge the credibility of
witnesses. If the evidence is conflicting or if several reasonable
inferences may be drawn, the motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict
should be denied.” (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110, citations
omitted, scrivener’s error corrected.)
 
“A motion for
judgment notwithstanding the verdict of a jury may properly be granted only if
it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party
securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence to support the
verdict. If there is any substantial evidence, or reasonable inferences to be
drawn therefrom, in support of the verdict, the motion should be denied.” (Brandenburg v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (1946)
28 Cal.2d 282, 284, citations omitted.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
1. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to enter
judgment for Defendant, notwithstanding the verdict of the Jury. (Motion for
JNOV, p. 6:2–5.) 
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the
evidence does not support the Jury’s verdict; (2) that no substantial evidence
supports Plaintiffs’ claims of gender discrimination and retaliation; (3) that
Plaintiffs’ seniority, violations of police policy, and complaint history
justified the investigation of and resulting discipline given to Plaintiffs;
(4) that the only evidence of gender discrimination was the hearsay statement
of the President of the Police Protective League; and (5) that there was no
evidence presented that any of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD)
officers who investigated and disciplined Plaintiffs were aware Plaintiffs had
made a complaint of gender discrimination. (Motion for JNOV, pp. 2:18–19,
3:12–13, 3:22–23, 4:23–24, 5:3–5.)
 
Plaintiffs disagree, arguing: (1)
that Defendant is using the wrong standard; (2) that there is direct evidence
of gender discrimination, which requires denial of the Motion for JNOV; and (3)
that even without direct evidence of gender discrimination, the Jury heard
ample other evidence of discrimination and retaliation. (Opposition to Motion
for JNOV, pp. 2:5, 3:2–3, 4:17–18.)
 
Defendant reiterates its arguments
in its Reply. 
 
2. 
    Discrimination
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“It is an unlawful
employment practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification .
. . [f]or an employer, because of the race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, reproductive health
decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran
or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or employ the person or to
refuse to select the person for a training program leading to employment, or to
bar or to discharge the person from employment or from a training program
leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(a).)
 
b.  
    Discussion 
 
The incident that gave rise to this
case involved a battery that appears to have occurred on January 26, 2017.
Specifically, a person suspected of driving under the influence (“DUI”) was:
(1) arrested by Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officers; (2) transported
by LAPD officers to an LAPD station; (3) held by the LAPD for a number of hours
at that station; (4) transported by Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD)
paramedics to a hospital; and (5) treated at a hospital. During the
transportation of the suspect to the hospital, the paramedics in the ambulance
noticed: (1) that the suspect’s eyebrows had been shaved; (2) that the
suspect’s eyebrows had been drawn in with marker; (3) that the suspect’s
mustache had been shaved; (4) that the suspect had a drawing on their abdomen;
and (5) that the suspect had offensive writing on their abdomen. 
 
This discrimination case arose in the
aftermath of the battery on the suspect. 
 
The Jury was asked to determine
whether the LAPD discriminated on the basis of gender against Plaintiffs
Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia in the ensuing investigation and disciplinary
measures taken as a result of the battery on the suspect. The Jury found in
favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant City of Los Angeles. 
 
The following is a brief summary of
some of the extensive declaratory and documentary evidence submitted to the
Jury:
 
(1)      
When the
LAPD investigated this matter, it determined that: (1) the suspect – who at one
point was found lying in his own vomit at the station – was not given timely
medical care; and (2) that a battery was committed on the suspect. The LAPD
initially subpoenaed phone records of various officers. These officers included
Officers Alfred Garcia and Camille Spitaleri (the officers who initially
responded to the DUI incident) and Officers Stephen Glick and Amanda Orefice
(the officers who arrived as backup to the DUI incident). Officers Glick and
Orefice had transported the suspect to the station and waited at the station
with the suspect until Officers Garcia and Spitaleri also arrived at the
station. Less than half an hour later, Officers Glick and Orefice left the
station while Officers Garcia and Spitaleri stayed at the station until the
suspect was, several hours later, transported to a local hospital by
paramedics. At different points during the time the suspect was at the station,
each of the four officers had at least one moment alone with the suspect. 
 
(2)      
As the LAPD
continued its investigation into the battery, the LAPD investigated Officers
Glick and Garcia (who are both male) differently from how it investigated
Officers Orefice and Spitaleri (who are both female). On April 20, 2017, the LAPD
served search warrants on Officers Glick and Garcia. The LAPD searched: (1)
these officers’ phones; (2) these officers’ lockers; (3) these officers’ work
vehicles; and (4) these officers’ personal vehicles. LAPD did not initially
issue search warrants on Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. On May 26, 2017, the LAPD
served searched warrants on Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. This third round of
warrants only searched their phones — not their lockers or their vehicles. 
 
(3)      
In
addition, the LAPD engaged in different enforcement actions against Officers
Glick and Garcia than against Officers Orefice and Spitaleri. When search
warrants were issued for Officers Glick and Garcia, the LAPD “benched” them. –
i.e., Officers Glick and Garcia were assigned to desk duty and could not work in
the field. Officers Orefice and Spitaleri were never benched in connection with
this matter. Some months later, Officers Glick and Garcia were each served with
a “Board of Rights” notice. This meant they were to face a hearing about their
termination as police officers with the LAPD. In addition, while they were each
scheduled for a Board of Rights hearing, Officers Glick and Garcia were
required to stay home, check in twice during their normal shifts, and receive
approval from the LAPD before leaving their homes. Although Officers Glick and
Garcia had more seniority than their respective partners, Detective McBride
testified that seniority would not be a reason to conduct these investigations
differently.
 
(4)      
The
different investigations and enforcement actions had measurable impacts. For
example, Officer Spitaleri was subsequently promoted. However, Officer Glick
became unable to transfer to the Metro Division (which was seen a promotion to
a more elite unit, even though it was technically a transfer), even though he
received notice prior to April 20, 2017 that his transfer request to Metro
Division would be approved. Officers Glick and Garcia have not been promoted
since April 20, 2017. 
 
(5)      
Ultimately,
the Board of Rights hearings were rescinded, but the underlying charge for the
Board of Rights hearings (battery) remained on each of their records as
“Unresolved.” This means that the charge was neither proved nor disproved. However,
unlike a finding of “Unfounded” or “Exonerated,” a result of “Unfounded” can
have a significant impact on an officer’s ability to promote. Officers Orefice
and Spitaleri were never scheduled for Board of Rights hearings, nor has the
underlying charge of battery for the incident on January 26, 2017 ever appeared
on their records. 
 
(6)      
At
multiple points during the investigation and enforcement process, decisions
were made to treat Officers Glick and Garcia differently from Officers Orefice
and Spitaleri. Regarding the search warrants, Detective Supervisor Kathleen
Roditis, who worked for Internal Affairs on this matter, noted the differences
in who was to be searched and the reasoning for those searches. Lieutenant Todd
Turner testified that the choice for only the male officers receiving search
warrants came directly from Chief of Police Charlie Beck. After the search
warrants had been issued, Deputy Chief Michael Rimkunas (who was at that point
the captain of the relevant LAPD station) had not seen any evidence that Officers
Glick and Garcia were more likely to have engaged in the battery than any of
the other officers investigated. Deputy Chief Rimkunas had recommended that the
battery charge be initially classified as “Unresolved.” But, according to
Deputy Chief Rimkunas, this recommendation was reviewed by Chief of Police
Charlie Beck, who overruled the recommendation and had the Board of Rights
hearings scheduled for Officers Glick and Garcia. Detective Jamie McBride, a
representative of the LAPD police officers, had conversations with Chief of
Staff Sean Malinowski about the investigation into this matter. When Detective
McBride asked why only the male officers were being relieved of duty, Chief of
Staff Sean Malinowski twice told Detective McBride that “this is something guys
would do, not females.” Testimony at trial indicated that the chief of staff
position is an important position that can direct items and information to the
chief of police. 
 
“[V]iewed in the light most
favorable” to Plaintiffs, (See Brandenburg v. Pac.
Gas & Elec. Co., supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284)there was
substantial evidence supporting the Jury’s finding that Officers Glick and
Garcia had been discriminated against in their terms, conditions, and
privileges of employment on the basis of the officers’ gender. 
 
Defendant argues that other reasons
beside gender explain the discrimination — for example, Plaintiffs’ seniority,
or their complaint history, or other violations of police policy (such as
Officer Garcia taking a picture of the suspect with his cell phone). Further,
it is noteworthy that, when asked point blank about whether gender bias played
any role here, Detective Roditis testified that gender bias did not play a role
in the investigation, and Deputy Chief Michael Rimkunas testified that gender
bias did not play a role in the adjudication of the investigation. 
 
        But on a motion
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the Court “cannot weigh the evidence,
or judge the credibility of witnesses.” (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.) Because there is
substantial evidence and reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom in support
of the Jury’s verdict — that unlawful gender discrimination occurred here — the
Motion for JNOV must be denied. (Brandenburg, supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)
 
        The Court DENIES the Motion for JNOV to
the first cause of action for discrimination. 
 
3. 
    Retaliation
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“It is an unlawful employment practice, unless based
upon a bona fide occupational qualification . . . For any employer,
labor organization, employment agency, or person to discharge, expel, or
otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has opposed any
practices forbidden under this part or because the person has filed a
complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under this part.” (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (h).)
 
“Past California cases hold that in order to establish a
prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer's action. Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the
employer is required to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the
adverse employment action. If the employer
produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption
of retaliation drops out of the picture, and the burden shifts back to the
employee to prove intentional retaliation.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042, citations and internal quotations marks omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion

 
The Jury was asked to determine
whether LAPD retaliated against Plaintiffs Stephen Glick and Alfred Garcia. The
Jury found in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant City of Los Angeles. 
 
        The Court
considers whether there was substantial evidence as to each element of a cause
of action for retaliation under FEHA (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h)). 
 
        First, both
Plaintiffs repeatedly raised the issue of gender discrimination to their
superiors. Officer Glick testified that he brought up his concerns of
differential treatment in the investigation with Detective De La Cova (who was
investigating the matter for Internal Affairs), Captain Waters (who was a
captain at the relevant station), and Lieutenant Turner (who was a lieutenant
at the relevant station). Lieutenant Todd Turner testified how Officer Glick
came into Lieutenant Turner’s office and reported that there was potential
discrimination in the investigation of this matter. Similarly, Officer Garcia
testified that he would speak with then-Captain Rimkunas about once or twice a
month, during which Officer Garcia would always bring up why the female
officers were being treated differently from the male officers. Thus, there is
substantial evidence that Plaintiffs engaged in the protected activity of
raising concerns of gender discrimination. 
 
        Second, both
Plaintiffs suffered adverse employment actions: (1) being subjected to a search
warrant; (2) being benched; (3) being sent home while the Board of Rights
hearing was pending; and (4) ultimately receiving an “Unresolved” on the
battery charge. There is substantial evidence that each of these adverse
employment actions occurred. 
 
        Finally,
substantial evidence existed to support a finding that a causal link existed between the protected activity and the
employer's action. For example, Plaintiffs repeatedly brought up to their
supervisors that they were being treated differently in the investigation based
on their gender. After complaining about gender discrimination, Plaintiffs
suffered additional adverse employment actions (including being served with a
Board of Rights hearing notice); these enforcement actions were never taken
against the female officers Orefice and Spitaleri, despite their presence and participation in the January 26,
2017 incident.
 
        Defendant
argues that there is no causal link between Plaintiffs engaging in the protected
activity of raising concerns of gender discrimination and the subsequent
adverse employment actions because the individuals in charge of investigation
and discipline were not aware of these complaints. However, there is
substantial evidence from which a jury could conclude there was such a causal
link. Officer Garcia testified that he complained to then-Captain Rimkunas (who
worked on the investigation and discipline related to the investigation) about
the differential treatment. Detective McBride testified that he made Chief of
Staff Malinowski aware of the treatment based on gender, to which Chief of
Staff Malinowski acknowledged the different treatment based on gender. All of
this was substantial evidence that supported the Jury’s finding. 
 
        Again, on a motion
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the Court “cannot weigh the evidence,
or judge the credibility of witnesses.” (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.) Because there is
substantial evidence and reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom in support
of the Jury’s verdict — that unlawful retaliation occurred here — the Motion
for JNOV should be denied. (Brandenburg, supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)
 
        The Court DENIES the Motion for JNOV to
the second cause of action for retaliation. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED. 
 
 
II.      
Motion
for New Trial
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“A new trial is a re-examination of
an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court,
or referee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 656.)
 
“The verdict may be vacated and any other
decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further
trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party: 
 
. . . 
 
“5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
“6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify
the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
 
. . .
 
“When a new trial is granted, on all or part
of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is
granted and the court’s reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each
ground stated.
 
“A new trial shall not be granted upon the
ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.
 
“The order passing upon and determining the
motion must be made and entered as provided in Section 660 and if the motion is
granted must state the ground or grounds relied upon by the court, and may
contain the specification of reasons. If an order granting such motion does not
contain such specification of reasons, the court must, within 10 days after
filing such order, prepare, sign and file such specification of reasons in
writing with the clerk. The court shall not direct the attorney for a party to
prepare either or both said order and said specification of reasons. . . .”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
 
“In any civil action where after trial by
jury an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be
proper, the trial court may in its discretion:
 
“(1) If the ground for granting a new trial is
inadequate damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the
party against whom the verdict has been rendered consents to the addition of
damages in an amount the court in its independent judgment determines from the
evidence to be fair and reasonable.
 
“(2) If the ground for granting a new trial is
excessive damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the
party in whose favor the verdict has been rendered consents to the reduction of
so much thereof as the court in its independent judgment determines from the
evidence to be fair and reasonable.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (a).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
1. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to order
a new trial on the issue of noneconomic damages, or alternatively,
conditionally order a new trial unless Plaintiffs consent to a reduction of
noneconomic damages. (Motion for New Trial, p. 18:26–28.)
 
        Defendant
argues: (1) that the noneconomic damage awards are excessive, as they are
grossly disproportionate to the evidence of emotional harm; and (2) improper
considerations influenced the Jury to award excessive noneconomic damages.
(Motion for New Trial, pp. 10:17–18, 18:4–5.)
 
        Plaintiffs
disagree, arguing: (1) that the entire record and reasonable inferences from
the evidence support the Jury’s awards of noneconomic damages; (2) that both
Plaintiffs provided evidence as to their noneconomic damages; (3) that
Defendant’s arguments do not justify vacating the Jury’s verdict; and (4) that
there was no misconduct, and Defendant forfeited this argument because Defense
Counsel did not object and request an admonition to cure the purported
misconduct. (Opposition to Motion for New Trial, pp. 1:11–12, 2:24–25, 6:23,
8:6, 11:22–23.)
 
        In its Reply,
Defendant argues: (1) that neither the evidence nor the law cited by Plaintiffs
justifies the noneconomic damages awards; (2) that Plaintiffs fabricate and
recast the trial testimony in an attempt to justify the excessive noneconomic
awards; (3) that the cases cited by Plaintiffs involve outrageously harmful
conduct that resulted in far more severe emotional distress than what
Plaintiffs experienced; and (4) that Plaintiffs’ Counsel improperly inflamed
the Jury during closing argument and the failure to object to that misconduct
does not result in a waiver. (Reply regarding Motion for New Trial, pp. 1:8–11,
6:10–11, 9:4–5.)
 
2. 
    Plaintiff
Stephen Glick’s Damages
 
a.  
    Plaintiff
Stephen Glick’s Noneconomic Damages
 
The Jury awarded Plaintiff Stephen
Glick $5,000,000.00 in past noneconomic damages and $3,000,000.00 in future
noneconomic damages. 
 
        However, scant evidence
was submitted regarding Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s noneconomic damages. 
 
As to past noneconomic damages,
Plaintiff Stephen Glick testified: (1) that he was upset during the
investigation into the battery and the enforcement actions taken against him,
including being upset and crying when he was notified of the Board of Rights
hearing against him; (2) that these stresses were ongoing, even to the point
where he had a hard time rolling out of bed; (3) that he was stressed out at
this time because he had just become a first-time father and did not know how
he was going to financially support his family; (4) that he was upset because
he was concerned that he would not be able to transfer into the Metro Division
and continue his upward career trajectory with LAPD; and (5) that the events
stemming from the investigation and enforcement actions contributed to a
recurrence of his drinking alcohol, which at one point (several years later)
led to him calling an LAPD helpline. 
 
As to future noneconomic damages,
Plaintiff Stephen Glick provided even less testimony. Among other things, he
testified: (1) that he has an ongoing problem with alcoholism, which was made
worse by what has occurred; (2) that he does not trust LAPD the way he used to;
(3) that he does not enjoy his job the way he used to; and (4) that he feels
that this tore his family apart. 
 
        Plaintiffs only
sought and argued for garden-variety emotional distress. In fact, on numerous
occasions both before and during trial, Plaintiffs’ counsel reiterated that
they were only seeking garden-variety emotional distress. 
 
For instance, on December 2, 2022,
Defendant filed an Ex Parte Request for a Mental Examination of the
Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs opposed this
request, stating that they were only seeking garden-variety emotional
distress.  (See, e.g., Plaintiffs’
Opposition to Ex Parte Application Compelling Mental Examination of Plaintiffs,
filed 12/5/2022, p. 2:17 – p. 3:3.) 
According to Plaintiffs:  
 
“The instant case only contains a
cause of action for retaliation, which will naturally result in ‘garden variety’
emotional distress and does not independently place mental condition ‘in
controversy.’ [¶] Plaintiff is clearly not claiming any out of the ordinary
emotional distress damages in this case that is above and beyond that usually
associated with the City’s conduct. Plaintiff’s emotional damages are
incidental to and flow from his harassment, discrimination, retaliation claims,
just as emotional distress damages are expected to result from physical injury.
Courts refer to this type of emotional distress as ‘garden variety’ emotional
distress.”  (Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Ex
Parte Application Compelling Mental Examination of Plaintiffs, filed 12/5/2022,
p. 6:1-10.)
 
        Based in part
on Plaintiffs’ assertion that they were only seeking garden-variety emotional
distress, the Court denied Defendant’s request for a mental examination. (See Minute
Order, 12/6/2022.)  
 
The only evidence introduced at
trial to support of Plaintiffs’ noneconomic damages was evidence for for
garden-variety emotional harms. 
 
Despite ending three days earlier
than anticipated, Plaintiffs did not present any psychologists, psychiatrists,
or treating physicians to testify about Glick’s emotional distress. No lay
witnesses (other than the Plaintiffs themselves) testified regarding Plaintiffs’
emotional suffering.  Plaintiff did
present testimony from Marianne Inouye (a forensic economist) and Defendant
tendered Nicholas Buzas (a forensic accountant. However, the testimony of these
witnesses only went to economic damages, not the noneconomic damages.
 
        After weighing
the evidence submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the entire record,
including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Specifically, it appears
that a new trial on the issue of past and future noneconomic damages is
warranted due to an award of excessive damages, based on insufficiency of the
evidence. (Ibid.) Simply put, the evidence submitted at trial in support
of these noneconomic damages was insufficient for such an award.  
 
        The jury
awarded Officer Glick $8,000,000.00 for his garden-variety emotional distress
and awarded Officer Glick $4,000,000.00 for his garden-variety emotional
distress.  While the Court is not making
a hard-and-fast rule as to the maximum amount that can be awarded for
garden-variety emotional distress, it is certainly not nearly $4,000,000.00 or
$8,000,000.00. A mid- to high-seven figure award for emotional distress is
“above and beyond that usually associated” with the discrimination or
retaliation which the jury found that Plaintiffs suffered.  (See Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Ex Parte
Application Compelling Mental Examination of Plaintiffs, filed 12/5/2022, p.
6:1-10.)
 
        Considering
that an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be
proper, the Court exercises its discretion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 622.5, subdivision (a)(2) and issues a conditional order granting a new
trial unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages. In the
Court’s independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the
Court determines that a fair and reasonable amount of damages for Plaintiff
Stephen Glick would be $500,000.00. This figure is comprised of $400,000.00 in
past noneconomic harms and $100,000.00 in future noneconomic harms. 
 
        The Court does
not reach the issues surrounding whether improper considerations affected the
Jury. 
 
b.  
    Plaintiff Stephen Glick’s Economic Damages
 
The Jury awarded Plaintiff Stephen
Glick $621,358.00 in future economic damages. 
 
The Jury’s verdict on these damages
cannot stand because there was no admissible evidence submitted at trial that
would support a finding of any economic damages. 
 
The Jury’s award of these damages
was based on their assessment of future economic harms to Plaintiff Stephen
Glick. Plaintiff Stephen Glick admitted that he had already been fully paid for
all of the time that he had previously been unpaid. There was no evidence
submitted of any future economic harms from things such as: (1) not getting
further promotions and pay raises due to what occurred in this matter; (2) not
getting bonus pay due to what occurred in this matter; or (3) not having access
to other employment opportunities that paid more due to what occurred in this
matter. Plaintiff Stephen Glick simply testified that he planned to retire
early. However, his testimony was completely speculative and thus inadmissible.

 
Plaintiff Stephen Glick, who at the
time of trial was 43 years old, testified that he planned to retire earlier
than he had originally planned.  He
testified that he planned on retiring in 7 to 9 years (i.e., when he would be approximately
50 or 52 years old) instead of retiring in 14 years (when he would be 57 years
old). However, he did not provide a reason for this, nor did he testify that he
is either currently unable to work, that he would be unable to work at age 57,
or that there was anything about what occurred that actually affected his
ability to work in the future. Put simply, it is pure speculation when someone
who is 43 years old says that he will retire in 7 years instead of in 14 years.

 
Marianne Inouye and Nicholas Buzas
discussed the present value of loss of future earnings by Plaintiff Stephen
Glick given that he chose to retire early. But neither of them could opine as
to when Plaintiff Glick would actually retire. Only Marianne Inouye had
actually spoken with Plaintiff Stephen Glick, and the only thing Glick told her
was that he planned to retire early. He did not give her any reason to believe
that this was anything more than speculation on his part. Further, Marianne
Inouye admitted that if he decided not to retire early, there would be no
future economic damages. 
 
No other evidence on the early
retirement or any other future economic harms was entered into evidence. As
mentioned above, all of the testimony above was speculative and thus
inadmissible. 
 
An additional problem is one of double
recovery. Plaintiff Stephen Glick is still an officer with the LAPD. He was not
fired, and there was no evidence that he is either unable to work or that he
will be unable to work due to anything that happened in this matter. If
Plaintiff Stephen Glick recovers hundreds of thousands of dollars on the speculation
that he will retire early — even though there is no evidence that such
retirement is necessary or that he could not mitigate his damages by obtaining
other employment — he could choose not to retire early and obtain a double
recovery. 
 
After weighing the evidence
submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have reached a
different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Specifically, it appears that a
new trial on the issue of future economic damages is warranted due to an award
of excessive damages, based on insufficiency of the evidence. (Ibid.) 
 
The Court notes that Defendant did
not move for a new trial on these damages. However, considering that an order
granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be proper, the Court
sua sponte exercises its discretion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 622.5, subdivision (a)(2), and issues a conditional order granting a
new trial unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in economic damages.
(See Tice v. Kaiser Co. (1951) 102 Cal.App.2d 44, 46 [“It is not only
the right, but the duty of the trial judge to grant a new trial when, in his
opinion, he believes the weight of the evidence to be contrary to the finding
of the jury. Trial judges have been commended, rather than condemned, for their
actions in granting new trial under these circumstances.”].) In the Court’s
independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the Court
determines that a fair and reasonable amount of future economic damages for
Plaintiff Stephen Glick is $0.00. 
 
        Given the above
holdings, the Court does not reach the issues surrounding whether improper
considerations affected the Jury. 
 
3. 
    Plaintiff Alfred Garcia’s Noneconomic
Damages
 
The Jury awarded Plaintiff Alfred
Garcia $3,000,000.00 in past noneconomic damages and $1,500,000.00 in future
noneconomic damages. 
 
        As with
Plaintiff Stephen Glick, there was scant evidence submitted regarding Plaintiff
Alfred Garcia’s noneconomic damages. 
 
        As to past
noneconomic damages, Plaintiff Alfred Garcia testified: (1) that he felt
embarrassed by being benched for eight or nine months, particularly since this
was the only time he had ever been benched; (2) that he was shocked when he
received notice of the Board of Rights hearing; (3) that he did not allow
himself to be down on himself for too long, as he had to take care of his
family financially; (4) that within a week of being sent home, he was working
an off-duty security job; (5) that this was the lowest point in his entire
career; (6) that he felt hurt by the LAPD’s actions toward him, particularly
because he had been loyal to the LAPD and given them his life (including being
in witness protection as a gang expert); (7) that his wife was deeply upset by
the situation, and that her emotions in turn affected him; (8) that he never
told his daughters about what occurred because he wanted to remain a role model
to them; and (9) that he was able to stop his transfer to another station
because he wanted to keep working at the station he was at. No other evidence
was submitted as to past noneconomic damages. 
 
        The same
testimony was presented for future noneconomic damages. Notably, Plaintiff
Alfred Garcia testified that he is happy in the position that he is currently
in and that he has not tried to promote to a higher position. 
 
        The only
noneconomic harms Plaintiffs pleaded were garden-variety emotional harms. The
Court adopts its discussion supra in §II(B)(2)(a) regarding Plaintiffs claiming
only garden-variety emotional distress and the limits on such awards.  
 
        After a
weighing of the evidence submitted at trial, the Court is convinced from the
entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly
should have reached a different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
Specifically, it appears that a new trial on the issue of past and future
noneconomic damages is warranted due to an award of excessive damages, based on
insufficiency of the evidence. (Ibid.) 
 
        Considering
that an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be
proper, the Court exercises its discretion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 622.5, subdivision (a)(2) and issues a conditional order granting a new
trial unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages. In the
Court’s independent judgment based on the evidence submitted at trial, the
Court determines that a fair and reasonable amount of damages for Plaintiff
Alfred Garcia would be $100,000.00. This figure is comprised of $90,000.00 in
past noneconomic harms and $10,000.00 in future noneconomic harms.
 
        Given the
Court’s conclusion regarding the need for a new trial on the issue of damages,
the Court does not reach the issues surrounding whether improper considerations
affected the Jury. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion

 
The Motion for
New Trial is GRANTED. 
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be held
unless Plaintiff Stephen Glick consents to a reduction in damages to a total
amount of $500,000.00.
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be held
unless Plaintiff Alfred Garcia consents to a reduction in damages to a total
amount of $100,000.00.
 
        Plaintiffs
shall each have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order
during which they may individually consent to their respective reduction of
damages set forth above. Failure to respond shall be deemed a rejection of the
reduction of damages, and a new trial limited to the issue of the rejecting
plaintiff’s damages shall be automatically granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,
subd. (b).) If a plaintiff chooses to accept the reduction of damages, that
plaintiff shall concurrently serve and submit to the Court a proposed amended
judgment reflecting the modified judgment amount. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5,
subd. (c).)
 
III.    
Motion
to Tax Costs
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd.
(b).)
 
Prevailing parties seeking to claim
costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a), and parties
seeking to contest costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b). 
 
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move the Court to award
$99,465.66 in costs, which would comprise of:
 
(1)      
$775.00
in filing and motion fees;
 
(2)      
$934.31
in jury fees;
 
(3)      
$28,031.90
in deposition costs;
 
(4)      
$2,947.21
for service of process;
 
(5)      
$2,775.60
in witness fees;
 
(6)      
$18,758.11
for models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits; 
 
(7)      
$1,041.03
in electronic filing or service fees; and 
 
(8)      
$44,202.50
in “other” fees. 
 
(MC-010.)
 
Defendant moves the Court to tax
$67,952.82 of these costs, arguing: (1) that Plaintiffs have not stated how
service of process was effectuated; (2) that ordinary witness fees should be
taxed; and (3) that the $44,202.50 in “other” fees (which comprises of
$39,952.50 for trial technology services and $4,250.00 for two ADR mediation
session fees) should be taxed. (Motion to Tax Costs, pp. 5:26–27, 6:1–2,
6:4–21.)
 
Plaintiffs argue: (1) that
Plaintiffs will provide copies of proofs of service; (2) that the witness fees
for witnesses who had to be present but ultimately did not testify are still
recoverable, although Plaintiffs do not oppose an amendment to eliminate the
witness fees for Plaintiffs themselves; (3) that the technology costs are not
specifically enumerated in Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, and thus
they are allowable in the Court’s discretion; and (4) that mediations costs are
allowable in the Court’s discretion. (Opposition to Motion to Tax Costs, pp.
2:8–14, 4:1–25, 5:22–23, 7:24–28.)
 
The Court determines that
sufficient evidence has been provided regarding the services fees. All of these
costs will be allowed. 
 
The Court determines that all of
the witness fees except for the witness fees for Plaintiffs themselves are
allowed. The Court taxes these costs by $620.00, which is the amount claimed
for Plaintiffs themselves. 
 
The Court determines that the
technology costs were appropriately and reasonably incurred in this matter. All
of these costs will be allowed. 
 
The Court declines to exercise its
discretion to allow the mediation costs. The Court will tax $4,250.00 in
mediation costs. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED
in part. Costs are TAXED by $4,870.00. Costs are AWARDED in favor of Plaintiffs
and against Defendant in the total amount of $94,595.66.
 
 
 