 Case Number:  PC049974    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  F47 MOTION TO
INTERVENE
 
Motion filed on 2/5/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Proposed Intervenor U.S. Bank Trust National Association, solely as Trustee for RCF 2
Acquisition Trust

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Carol Wyatt Berkley
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order allowing U.S. Bank
Trust National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as
Trustee for RCF 2 Acquisition Trust (U.S. Bank) to
intervene in this action pursuant to CCP 387 for the sole and limited purpose
of filing a Motion to Expunge the Notice of Pendency of Action recorded by
Plaintiff in connection with this action.

 
RULING: The motion is granted.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On 1/13/11, Plaintiff Carol Wyatt Berkley (Plaintiff),
representing herself, filed this action against various defendants regarding real
property commonly known as 12750 Daventry St., Pacoima, California 91331 (the
Property).  On 1/20/11, Plaintiff recorded
a Notice of Pendency of Action which gives notice of a suit affecting the
Property.  (RJN, Ex.A).  On 1/31/11, while still representing herself,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. 
On 2/24/11, Plaintiff substituted in attorney Wilma R. Shanks to represent
her in this action.  On 6/8/11, attorney
Shanks on behalf of Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal of the entire
action with prejudice which was entered that day.  
 
Plaintiff has failed to respond to proposed Intervenor U.S.
Bank Trust National Association, solely as Trustee for RCF 2 Acquisition Trust’s
(U.S. Bank) requests to withdraw the Lis Pendens.  (See Davieau Decl. filed on 2/5/24 in
support of Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens). 
Therefore, on 2/5/24, U.S. Bank filed (served on 2/1/24) the instant
motion for an order allowing U.S. Bank to intervene in this action pursuant to
CCP 387 for the sole and limited purpose of filing a Motion to Expunge the
Notice of Pendency of Action recorded by Plaintiff in connection with this
action.  
 
No opposition or other response to the motion has been
filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
U.S. Bank’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.  
 
CCP 387(d) provides, in relevant part:
 
“(d) (1) The court shall, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
 
. . . . 
 
(B) The person seeking intervention
claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject
of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action
may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless
that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.”
 
One of the named defendants in the action was JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., the former beneficiary of a Deed of Trust to the Subject
Property.  (See Complaint &
First Amended Complaint).  In 2014,
JPMorgan Chase Bank assigned the Deed of Trust to NRZ Pass-Through Trust IV,
U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee.  (See RJN, Ex.B).  In 2022, the Deed of Trust was assigned to
U.S. Bank National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as
trustee for NRZ Pass-Through Trust VIII.  (RJN, Ex.C). 
Thereafter, the beneficial interest in the Deed of Trust was assigned to
U.S. Bank.  (RJN, Ex.D).  U.S. Bank is thus the present beneficiary of
the Deed of Trust. 
 
Since this action is no longer pending, the Notice of
Pendency of Action recorded in relation thereto is no longer proper.  U.S. Bank is the current beneficiary of the
deed of trust which is subject to a cloud on title because Plaintiff did not
withdraw the lis pendens when she dismissed this action.  U.S. Bank has an interest in the property
which was the subject of this lawsuit and desires to bring a Motion to Expunge
Lis Pendens/Pendency of action.  However,
in order to do so, U.S. Bank must obtain leave of court to intervene in this
action.  See CCP 405.30.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
U.S. Bank is ordered to file a separate copy of the Complaint-in-Intervention.  
 
 
 