  Case Number:  20STCV00145    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV00145




MOTION


Motion
  to Continue Trial and Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Adan Villareal  




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Matthew Morgan



 
MOTION
 
This
case arises from an alleged motor vehicle accident. On April 22, 2024, Defendant
Adan Villareal (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion to continue trial and
reopen discovery. Plaintiff Matthew Morgan (“Plaintiff”) opposes and Defendant
replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on January
2, 2020. The first amended complaint (“FAC”) was filed on January 21, 2020. Trial
was initially set for July 1, 2021. 
 
            On July 1, 2021, the case was
dismissed without prejudice after Plaintiff failed to appear at trial and
failed to serve the complaint. 
 
            On January 5, 2022, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal. Trial was set for August
15, 2022. 
 
            On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff
represented that publication started on July 21, 2022, and would run for 30
days. As a result, the trial was placed off calendar. 
 
            On December 28, 2022, default was
entered against Defendant. 
 
            On April 11, 2023, the Court granted
default judgment against Defendant. 
 
            On September 19, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion to set aside the default and default judgment. 
 
            On September 19, 2023, Defendant
filed his answer. 
 
            On October 6, 2023, trial was
scheduled for March 6, 2024. 
 
            On January 22, 2024, the Court granted
in part Defendant’s ex parte application and continued trial to May 22, 2024. 
 
            On April 18, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial to July 10, 2024. 
 
            
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
In
determining whether to reopen discovery, the court must consider the necessity
of and reasons for the additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by
the party seeking to reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior
to the cutoff, whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from
going forward on the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any
past continuances of the trial date.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(b).)¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant argues that trial should be continued, and all discovery
reopened in order to conduct all discovery for this matter including Plaintiff’s
medical examination, procuring discovery responses, medical subpoenas, and deposing
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s medical providers. In short, Defendant asserts that
no discovery has taken place. 
 
On September 19, 2023, Defendant filed his answer. Defendant asserts
that he first propounded discovery on Plaintiff on October 6, 2023. Responses
were due on November 7, 2023. Plaintiff did not provide responses. Defendant
filed motions to compel discovery on December 20, 2023. The motions were heard
on March 21, 2024. Plaintiff was ordered to provide verified responses within
30 days. (Min. Order, 3/21/24.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant was not diligent because he
failed to serve subpoenas while discovery was open and failed to serve
discovery by mail. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant made no efforts to move
the motions to compel to earlier dates. Despite this, Plaintiff asserts that he
would be amenable to a short trial continuance to August 7, 2024.[1] Plaintiff
would agree to provide Defendant with medical and work records, and to allow party
depositions. 
 
In reply, Defendant asserts there is still good cause to continue
trial and related dates to September 26, 2024 in order to complete discovery. Defendant
asserts he was diligent, and that Plaintiff failed to cooperate with initial
discovery requests. Defendant contends that Plaintiff served unverified
discovery responses on April 22, 2024 that are not code compliant. As a result,
Defendant seeks to compel further responses. (Reply, Mermelstein Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
The Court agrees that with the exception of the discovery that was the
subject of the motions to compel, Defendant has not established diligence in
attempting to complete discovery prior to the cutoffs. To the extent that there
are deficiencies in responses subject to the Court’s orders to compel, no
motions to compel further responses have been filed concurrently with this
motion nor any informal discovery conference scheduled. However, the Court
would be inclined to reopen discovery to hear any disputes regarding the
responses subject to the Court’s prior orders. Accordingly, the parties must
meet and confer and Defendant must promptly file any motions that are necessary
following good faith efforts to resolve the disputes.
 
As to Defendant’s argument that the initial discovery was required
before conducting further discovery, Defendant does not provide any
specificity. Indeed, Defendant issued 21 subpoenas, which was the subject of a
prior motion to quash, prior to the hearing on Defendants’ motions to compel.
(See Minute Order Dated 2/27/24.) Defendant does not explain why he waited
until April 22, 2024 to file the instant motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue
trial and related dates. 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


