 Case Number:  23STCV18751    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV18751




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
  Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Shannon Tymkiw and Bradley
  Wheeler 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Sarah Coplen 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Shannon Tymkiw and Bradley Wheeler (“Plaintiffs”) move to
compel further responses from Defendant Sarah Coplen (“Defendant”) to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiffs
also seek monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. There is no
indication in the record that Plaintiff filed an IDC statement with the Court
or scheduled an IDC for this motion. 
 
In addition,
Plaintiff does not respond to Defendant’s argument that Defendant provided
amended responses on February 14, 2024, after the motions to compel further
were filed, and no motion to compel further has since been timely filed.
Plaintiff further does not response to Defendant’s argument regarding the
parties’ agreement and the lack of sufficient meet and confer efforts.
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motions. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, are DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and
file a proof of service of such.