 Case Number:  22STCV16893    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV16893




MOTION


Motion to Advance Summary Judgment Hearing Date or, in
  the alternative, Continue Trial Date




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Sixt Rent A Car, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Martinique Latrell Brown 



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Sixt Rent A Car, LLC (“Defendant”) moves to advance its
summary judgment hearing date from June 27, 2025 to June 21, 2024, or in the
alternative, continue trial to August 1, 2025. Plaintiff Martinique Latrell
Brown (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion to advance the hearing date but does not
oppose the motion to continue trial. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on May 23, 2022. Trial was initially set for
November 20, 2023.
 
Defendant filed its answer on July 6, 2022. 
 
On October 30, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued
trial and all related dates to July 22, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1335 states as follows:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
Noticed motion or application required¿ 
A party
seeking to advance, specially set, or reset a case for trial must make this
request by noticed motion or ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division.¿ 
(b)
Grounds for motion or application¿ 
The
request may be granted only upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of
good cause based on a declaration served and filed with the motion or
application.¿ 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1335(a)-(b).)¿ 
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Notice of the
motion and supporting papers must be served on all other parties at least 75
days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(2).)¿ The
motion must be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the
court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The importance of providing the minimum statutory notice
of a summary judgment hearing cannot be overemphasized.”¿ (Robinson v. Woods
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262 (Robinson).)¿ “Because it is
potentially case dispositive and usually requires considerable time and effort
to prepare, a summary judgment motion is perhaps the most important pretrial
motion in a civil case.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “Therefore, the Legislature was
entitled to conclude that parties should be afforded a minimum notice period
for the hearing of summary judgment motions so that they have sufficient time
to assemble the relevant evidence and prepare an adequate opposition.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Thus, without the parties’ consent, “in light of the express statutory
language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum notice
period for summary judgment hearings.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court advance its June 27, 2025 summary
judgment hearing date or continue trial after the hearing. Trial is currently
set for July 22, 2024. A party that timely files a motion for summary judgment under
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c has a right to have their motion heard
before the start of trial. (Cole v. Superior Court¿(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th
84, 88.) If served electronically, a motion
for summary judgment must be made at least 105 days before trial, plus two
court days. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(a)(2), (3).) Therefore, a motion for summary judgment in this case needed to be filed
by April 4, 2024. 
 
 Defendant served its motion for
summary judgment via electronic service, on April 12, 2024. Defendant argues
that the earliest date available for a summary judgment hearing was June 27,
2025. (Bridwell Decl. ¶ 4.) Since that date is after trial, Defendant
requests that the Court either advance the hearing or continue the trial date
to allow for the motion to be heard. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that if the hearing date is advanced, then
Plaintiff would have less time to oppose. The Court agrees and finds that if the
hearing were advanced to June 21, 2024, that would only provide 70 days’ notice
to Plaintiff—below the statutory minimum. However, the Court notes that
Plaintiff does not oppose continuing trial until after the summary judgment
hearing is held. 
 
Therefore,
seeing that Defendant has filed a summary judgment motion, Plaintiff does not
oppose a continuance, and trial has only been continued once, the Court finds
good cause to continue trial. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants in part the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to July 14, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to July 28, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.  
 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 