  Case Number:  21STCV19312    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Claudia and Josue Morales
filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical Center and
Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., PhD for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of
consortium.  The complaint arises out of
Defendants’ care and treatment of Claudia Morales for cardiothoracic
surgery.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Deposition Questions
a.     Parties’
Positions
Plaintiffs deposed Defendant, Ali
Khoynezhad, M.D.  At his deposition, Defendant
refused to answer questions about his history of prior misconduct at other hospitals
and history of medical malpractice claims and allegations.  Defendant refused on the grounds that Evidence
Code §1157 precluded the questions.  
 
Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant
to answer the questions, contending (a) the questions are relevant to their
Elam claim, and (b) §1157 does not act as a shield to permit Defendant to refuse
to answer the questions.
 
Defendant opposes the motion.  He argues Plaintiffs are making an improper
motion to compel a second session of deposition, when Defendant’s deposition has
already been completed.  He also argues
§1157 offers protection such that he need not answer the subject questions.
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, contend this
is a motion to compel further responses at deposition, not a second session of
deposition.  They contend Defendant failed
to meet his burden to show §1157 applies and offers protection against
answering the questions.  
 
b.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses vs. Motion to Compel Second Deposition
Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant
to further respond to questions asked at deposition.  A motion to compel further responses at
deposition is governed by CCP §2025.480, which permits a party, after a deponent
refuses to answer questions at a deposition, to move to compel the deponent to
answer those questions.  A motion to
compel further responses at deposition requires a separate statement pursuant
to CRC 3.1345(4).  
 
Defendant argues the motion is not
actually one to compel further responses to questions asked and objected to at
deposition, but instead one to compel a second session of his deposition.  A motion to compel a second session of a
deposition is governed by CCP §2025.2025.610, which permits the Court to order
a party to sit for a second session of deposition for good cause shown.  
 
In short, a motion to compel
further responses to questions at a deposition is used when a deponent refuses
to answer questions at the first session of the deposition, and a motion to
compel a second deposition is used when the need to further question the
deponent about a new or different subject arises after the deposition is
already complete.
 
Defendant quotes a portion of the
deposition transcript in support of his contention that the motion is one to
compel a second session of deposition, rather than to compel responses to
questions asked and objected to at deposition. 
The portion of the deposition testimony cited is as follows:
"MR. FRASER:· Right. And just
for clarity, I know you know that it's our position that this was your one and
only chance to depose the doctor. If there are specific areas that you think we
need to retread based upon my instructions to the witness today, we can meet
and confer about them, and maybe we can informally address them or formally
address them without the need to have a whole new session of the deposition.
MR. SCHWALBACH:· Yeah.· Absolutely. Sounds good to me."  Exhibit A, Dr. Khoynezhad deposition
transcript, at 245:14-25.  
 
It is unclear how this quoted
discussion supports Defendant’s position. 
Indeed, it appears to support Plaintiffs’ position – that the parties
agreed to meet and confer concerning any instructions to the witness WITHOUT
the need to have a whole new session of the deposition.  In other words, the parties agreed that any “second
session” of the deposition would merely serve the purpose of answering
questions that were already asked, but objected to, at the first session of the
deposition.  This is the purpose of a
motion to compel further responses to questions at a deposition, and Plaintiffs
have filed the correct motion.  Defendant’s
argument to the contrary is rejected.
c.     Questions
at Issue on Motion
The Court will not quote the questions
at issue in this motion in full.  The questions
concerned past allegations of misconduct against Defendant while he was a physical
at other institutions, including allegations of medical malpractice.  Plaintiffs also asked Defendant if he was
ever interviewed by a peer review committee. 

 
d.     Basic
Law re: Elam Claims
Even where a
physician is an independent contractor rather than an employee or agent of the
hospital, the hospital’s potential liability is not foreclosed:
“In summary, we
hold a hospital is accountable for negligently screening the competency of its
medical staff to insure the adequacy of medical care rendered to patients at
its facility.” Elam v. College Park Hospital (1982) 132 Cal.App.3d 332, 346.
 
e.     Basic
Law re: Evidence Code §1157
Subject to certain exceptions, the
“proceedings” and “records” of hospital staff committees responsible for
evaluating care rendered by staff physicians, etc. are not subject to
discovery. Persons who attended such meetings cannot be compelled to testify as
to what transpired.  Ev.C. § 1157(a),(b).  Allowing discovery would “stifle candor and
inhibit objectivity” by hospital medical staff in evaluating patient care,
which in turn could endanger the quality of in-hospital medical practice.  Alexander v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th
1218, 1228.
 
The prohibition on discovery of the
proceedings and records of hospital staff committees frequently precludes
actions against hospitals for negligent selection or retention of staff
physicians. West Covina Hosp. v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 134,
136-138.  
 
By its terms, the statute protects
only the “records” and “proceedings” of physician peer review committees. But
these terms are broadly construed in order to limit external access to the
medical peer review process.   Alexander,
supra at 1224.  Protection extends to
documents submitted to a medical staff committee from outside sources (e.g.,
letters of reference or complaint) as well as to documents prepared by the
committee. Id. at 1227-1228.  
 
A physician's application (or
reapplication) for staff privileges is privileged because the information
provided pertains to the investigative and evaluative functions of peer review
committees. Id. at 1227.  
 
A medical malpractice plaintiff is
entitled to discover whether Hospital has evaluated the competency of a doctor
on its staff (e.g., by investigating the doctor's application for staff
privileges or later reviewing the doctor's performance). Indeed, Hospital might
appear to be negligent if it never evaluated doctors on its staff.  Allowing such disclosure “stimulates the
evaluation process without permitting penetration of the content of committee
discussions” protected under Ev.C. § 1157.  Brown v. Superior Court (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d
489, 501.  
 
Only the records of hospital staff
committees responsible for evaluating medical care at the hospital are
protected under Ev.C. § 1157. Files of the hospital administration itself are
not. Alexander supra at 1224.  
 
The burden is on the hospital, as
the party resisting discovery, to establish that the information falls within
the class of material protected under Ev.C. § 1157.  Santa Rosa Memorial Hosp. v. Superior Court
(1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711, 724, 726-727. 
A positive showing must be made. It is not enough that the hospital's
files “may include” materials generated by a medical review committee.  Brown supra at 495.
 
f.      Were
You Evaluated
Plaintiffs asked Defendant, during
deposition, “this is a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ question…as it relates to Ms. Morales’s
case, were you ever interviewed by a peer review committee?  Defendant refused to answer, citing
§1157.  Under Brown, cited above, the
mere fact that a physician was or was not interviewed prior to being granted
staff privileges is not subject to §1157. 
This question, however, does not concern Defendant’s application for or
grant of staff privileges.  This question
concerns whether or not Defendant was reviewed in connection with the acts that
form the basis of the instant lawsuit.  
 
Neither party cites authority
directly on point concerning this question. 
The statute, on its face, protects disclosure of the records and
proceedings of the committee.  It seems
the analysis of Brown, supra, applies. 
The mere fact that the proceedings occurred would not be protected.  Defendant must answer the question.  
 
g.     Remaining
Questions
Plaintiffs rely extensively on Santa
Rosa, supra, at 726-727, to argue the party resisting the discovery has the burden
of establishing the discovery is improper. 
A full reading of Santa Rosa, however, reveals that the analysis is more
complicated.  Santa Rosa held that,
whenever it is clear that the discovery sought is subject to §1157, no
additional showing need be made.  If,
however, the issue is complicated, the Court must conduct an in camera review
of the discovery sought to determine whether §1157 precludes the discovery or
not.
 
In this case, the crux of the
discovery sought is whether and to what extent Defendant told LBMMC about prior
malpractice claims against him.  The Court
considered a very similar issue in Alexander, supra.  In Alexander, the issue was whether the
defendant doctor’s application for staff privileges was subject to
disclosure.  The Court of Appeals held it
was, but the Supreme Court reversed.  The
Supreme Court noted that complete transparency concerning prior issues of malpractice
must be exercised when applying for privileges, but that allowing disclosure of
the application in future civil proceedings would dissuade full transparency
during the process.  The Supreme Court
was not swayed by the medical malpractice plaintiffs’ argument, in the case, that
the application was not a record created by the committee, but instead was a
record created by the defendant doctor and then transmitted to the
committee.  The document was created for
the purpose of applying for the privileges and for review by the committee, and
was therefore a record of the committee such that the protection applied.  The Court was also not swayed by the
plaintiffs’ argument that the hospital administration, rather than the peer
review committee, made the final decision to grant staff privileges.  The Court held:
Given the statutory and regulatory
scheme, it is clear that applications for staff privileges are the province of
the hospital's medical staff committee. ***401 
**100 (California Eye Institute v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
1477, 1482–1483, 264 Cal.Rptr. 83; Peer Review Confidentiality, supra, 24 Santa
Clara L.Rev. 661, 670.) Although a hospital's administrative governing body
makes the ultimate decision about whether to grant or deny staff privileges, it
does so based on the recommendation of its medical staff committee. (See Health
& Saf.Code, § 32128; Bus. & Prof.Code, § 805.5;  People v. Superior Court (Memorial Medical
Center) (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 363, 372, 286 Cal.Rptr. 478; *1225 California Eye
Institute, supra, 215 Cal.App.3d 1477, 1482, 264 Cal.Rptr. 83;  Matchett v. Superior Court (1974) 40
Cal.App.3d 623, 628, 115 Cal.Rptr. 317.)
 
Similarly here, Plaintiffs argue
the disclosures about which they were inquiring were made to the administrators,
who made the ultimate hiring decision, rather than the peer review committee.  Pursuant to Alexander, supra, that argument is
unavailing.
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs’ stated
purpose for inquiring into past allegations and history of Defendant’s
malpractice is to establish an Elam claim against LBMMC.  Pursuant to Alexander and the other cited
cases, above, Defendant’s application for staff privileges, including what he
disclosed or did not disclose, is protected pursuant to §1157.  The motion to compel a further response to
these questions is therefore denied.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Defendant must answer the basic
question of whether he was interviewed by a peer review committee in connection
with Plaintiff’s claims against him.  Defendant
need not answer any of the other questions posed by Plaintiff in the
motion.  
 
The Court notes that neither party
seeks imposition of sanctions in connection with the motion, and none are imposed.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.