 Case Number:  22LBCV00415    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses
and motions to compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases.  Similar issues are presented on all of the
motions, and the attorneys for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer
in good faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues
relating to each case.  The Court’s
docket has been inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon
law cases often taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the assistance
of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on these discovery
motions.  The Court has ruled on
discovery motions relating to PMK depositions involving the instant defendant,
General Motors, in the following cases (among others):
23LBCV00406
22LBCV00901
22LBCV00761
22LBCV00456
23LBCV00126
21LBCV00261
 
The Court has read and considered Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331-334,
wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of sanctions
against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered payable to the
other party directly.  The Court finds
the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that does not
benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in connection with
discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court will rule on
the motions.  
 
The Court notes that this case is
set for trial on 3/04/24, which is only thirteen days after the hearing on this
motion.  CCP §2024.020(a) makes clear
that all discovery motions must be heard at least fifteen days prior to
trial.  The motion is summarily denied because
of its proximity to the trial date.  If the
trial date is ultimately continued, and if the Court and the parties agree to
reopen the discovery cut-off, the Court will continue the hearing and require
the parties to meet and confer with the above sanctions discussion in
mind.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative.  If the parties do not submit
on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.