 Case Number:  23LBCV00696    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Jerome Keith Wilson
filed this action against Defendants, Jasmine V. Keough and Devin Saez for
damages arising out of an automobile accident. 
Plaintiff’s complaint contains a prayer for punitive damages based on
the allegation that Saez identified himself as Keough at the scene of the
accident.  Plaintiff’s complaint also
contains a prayer for prejudgment interest. 
  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Allegations Subject to Motion
At this time, Defendants move to
strike the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations against them,
and also move to strike the prayer for prejudgment interest.
 
b.    
Punitive Damages
In Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck
Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679 the Court found that a hit and run cannot
give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional
damages above and beyond the accident itself. 
Brooks did not consider the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed
based on a hit and run.  It did, however,
hold that such act only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the
plaintiff additional damages above and beyond the damages caused by the
accident that precedes the hit and run. 
For example, if a plaintiff is struck and is seriously bleeding
following the accident, the fact that the defendant hits and runs could cause
additional damage due to loss of blood, death, etc.  If, however, the accident causes immediate
soft tissue damage, no amount of aid would reduce or minimize the future
damages, and the act of hitting and running would not give rise to additional
damages.
 
This case does not involve a hit
and run.  This case involves a failure to
properly identify oneself at the scene of an accident.  The same analysis, however, seems
applicable.  Unless that failure causes
damages over and above those caused by the accident itself, it is not tortious,
and cannot give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  
 
The motion to strike is
granted.  Any opposition to the motion
was due on or before 2/05/24.  The Court
has not received timely opposition to the motion.  In light of the lack of opposition, leave to
amend is denied.  
 
c.     Prejudgment
Interest
Civil Code §3287 provides for the
recovery of prejudgment interest on damages. 
§3287, subdivision (a), provides:
(a)   Every
person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being made
certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in him upon a
particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that day,
except during such time as the debtor is prevented by law, or by the act of the
creditor from paying the debt. …
 
The Court is not aware of any
personal injury case in which pre-judgment interest has been awarded on the
ground that damages are certain or capable of being made certain.  Notably, the Rutter Guide on Personal Injury,
§§3:10, et seq. indicates that pre-judgment interest under §3287 is not
available in personal injury suits.  In
light of the lack of opposition, the motion to strike is granted without leave
to amend.
 
d.     Conclusion
Defendant is ordered to file an
answer to the complaint, with the prayer for prejudgment interest, prayer for
punitive damages, and subject related allegations deemed stricken, within ten
days.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   