 Case Number:  23LBCV01235    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, John and Jane Doe filed
this action against Defendants, China Ocean Shipping Company, Cosco Shipping,
related Cosco entities, the City of Pasadena, KSE Football, related KSE
entities, Macquarie Holdings (U.S.A.) Inc., related Macquarie entities, Smiths
Detection Inc., and related Smiths entities on 7/03/23.  
 
The complaint includes causes of
action for negligence, strict liability, false representation, intentional
tort, negligence II, general negligence, and loss of consortium.  The crux of the complaint is that Plaintiff
worked as a Customs and Border Patrol agent and regularly scanned imported
goods using an HCVM, which is an x-ray scanner made by the Smith Defendants and
used on premises owned by the remaining defendants.  Plaintiff alleges he was exposed to dangerous
levels of radiation due to use of the scanner, and now has thyroid cancer as a
result of his exposure.  
 
On 1/03/24, the Court denied Plaintiffs’
motion to proceed under a pseudonym.  To
date, Plaintiffs have filed nothing in the action clarifying their names or otherwise
removing the pseudonym from the action.  They
filed all opposition papers through the names John and Jane Doe.  
 
2.     Demurrer
(Defendant, Pacific Maritime Services)
a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties engaged in extensive meet and confer efforts, but were unable to resolve
the issues presented by way of the pleading challenges.  The demurrer is therefore ripe for determination
on its merits.  
 
c.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant seeks judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation claim form and the declaration he filed in
support of his motion to proceed under a pseudonym.  The RJN is granted.
 
d.     Parties’
Positions
Plaintiffs’ complaint includes
causes of action for negligence II, general negligence, and loss of consortium
against Defendant.  The crux of
Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant is that Plaintiff was present on Defendant’s
premises in his capacity as a law enforcement officer for CBP, and he was
exposed to x-ray radiation from a large HCVM truck-mounted x-ray scanner on the
premises; Plaintiff alleges Defendant knew or should have known about the risks
associated with the scanner but failed to use safety precautions, warn of the
danger, or otherwise protect Plaintiff from the danger.
 
Defendant demurs to the complaint
against it, arguing (a) the Privette doctrine bars the claims against
Defendant, and (b) Plaintiffs failed to obtain a pre-filing order permitting
them to proceed in the action using a pseudonym.  
 
 Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer, arguing the
Privette doctrine has no application to the case because (a) CBP is not an
independent contractor, (b) nothing the complaint suggests Defendant relinquished
control over its premises, and (c) application of the Privette doctrine is a
highly factual inquiry that cannot be decided on demurrer; they argue any issue
relating to pseudonym has already been determined and the issue is now
moot.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends it
had no ability to control what scanners CBP used in connection with its work on
the premises, and therefore cannot be liable for Plaintiff’s injuries.  It argues the purpose of Privette, avoiding
double recovery, exists here, as Plaintiff is proceeding in workers’
compensation against CBP.  
 
e.     Privette
Doctrine
Causes of action available to an
injured employee of an independent contractor against the hirer of that
contractor (i.e., the general contractor, owner, developer, etc.) have been
severely limited.  Vicarious
liability-based causes of action or theories are precluded. (See Hooker v.
Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198.)  However, the hirer can be held directly
liable if its conduct affirmatively contributed to plaintiff’s injuries.  Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent
contractor is not liable to the contractor's employees for on-the-job
injuries.  The independent contractor's
(employer's) liability for such injuries is limited by workers' compensation,
and the party who hired the contractor (and who indirectly paid for the
contractor's workers' compensation coverage) likewise gets the benefit of that
coverage.  (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693, 700-702--no hirer liability to contractor's employee
under "peculiar risk" doctrine; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th
1235, 1244-1245--no hirer liability to contractor's employee under
"negligent hiring" doctrine; see Toland v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc.
(1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-270.)  
 
f.      Analysis
Defendant is attempting, by way of
this demurrer, to put a square peg in a round hole.  As Plaintiffs correctly note in opposition to
the demurrer, the doctrine applies to situations where a landowner hires an
independent contractor to do work on the premises.  Nothing in the complaint suggests that Moving
Defendant hired the California Customs and Border Protection Agency as an independent
contractor to do work on the premises.  Defendant,
in reply, argues this is not a necessary precondition to application of the
doctrine, but cites no authority in support of this position.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiffs correctly note
in opposition that Privette and all cited cases by Defendant in the demurrer
were decided at the fact-finding stage, not the pleading stage.  Notably, application of the Privette doctrine
appears to be an affirmative defense, such that it cannot be adjudicated per
the face of the complaint.  
 
Defendant, in reply, shifts the
argument and contends it would be nonsensical to hold it liable for CBP’s
decision to use a certain scanner in connection with the work done on the property.  This is not a Privette-based argument, but
instead an argument that the complaint fails to allege Defendant, as opposed to
CBP, did anything to cause Plaintiffs’ damages. 
Defendant admits, however, that the complaint itself alleges Defendant
owned the premises and maintained control over the scanner that was used and that
injured Plaintiff.  Because this is a
negligence case, Plaintiffs are free to plead their complaint in general
terms.  Issues concerning whether Defendant
actually had any control over the use of the scanner are factual in nature and
cannot be determined at the pleading stage. 
The demurrer is therefore overruled.
 
3.     Motion
to Strike (PMS)
Defendant moves to strike (a) all
references to the plaintiffs as John and Jane Doe, and (b) the prayer for
punitive damages and all related allegations.
 
Plaintiffs argue the motion to
strike references to them as John and Jane Doe is moot because the Court denied
their motion to file under a pseudonym. 
Defendant correctly notes, in reply, that the issue is not moot, as
Plaintiffs have not filed an amended complaint or otherwise identified themselves
in any pleading.  The motion to strike is
granted with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs argue punitive damages
are adequately pled because they allege Defendant knew of the dangers of the machine
that emitted radiation and failed to warn of those dangers; Plaintiffs note
that they allege Defendant did so for financial gain.  Plaintiffs’ argument fails for two
reasons.  First, all cases cited by
Plaintiffs involve far more egregious allegations than having a machine that
emits radiation on the premises.  Second,
requests for punitive damages must be pled with specificity, and Plaintiffs’
complaint contains nothing more than conclusions in this regard.  It is not sufficient to allege merely that
defendant “acted with oppression, fraud or malice.” Rather, plaintiff must
allege specific facts showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent or malicious (e.g., that defendant acted with the intent to inflict
great bodily harm on plaintiff or to destroy plaintiff's property or
reputation).  Anschutz Entertainment
Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.  
Additionally, as Defendant correctly
notes in the motion, because it is an entity defendant, Plaintiffs must also
plead facts showing it acted through a corporate officer, director, or managing
agent; Plaintiffs do not even address this argument in their opposition
papers.  §3294(c).
 
The motion to strike is
granted.  Plaintiffs have not articulated
how they would amend if given leave to do so, and therefore leave to amend is
denied.  The ruling is without prejudice
to Plaintiffs’ right to move to amend their complaint to state a claim for
punitive damages if and when they determine, during the course of the action,
specific facts showing malice, fraud, and/or oppression done by a corporate
director, officer, or managing agent.  
 
4.     Demurrer
(Smiths Detection, Inc.)

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Chris S. Pacetti,
declares the parties met and conferred but were unable to resolve their
dispute.  The Court will therefore rule
on the pleading challenge on its merits.
 

Parties’ Positions

Plaintiffs’ complaint against Smiths
Detection, Inc. is premised on the allegation that Defendant designed,
manufactured, and sold the subject HCVM x-ray scanners.  Plaintiffs’ complaint against Defendant
includes causes of action for negligence, strict products liability, false
representation, and intentional tort.  
 
Defendant argues the false
representation and intentional tort causes of action are not pled with the
necessary specificity.  It contends
Plaintiffs improperly lump all of the defendants together, and fail to articulate
who said what to whom, by what means, where, or provide any additional details.  Defendant argues that, to the extent the
intentional tort cause of action is intended to sound in fraud by concealment,
Plaintiffs have not alleged Defendant had any legal duty to disclose any facts
to them.  Defendant argues the entire
complaint fails because Plaintiffs did not obtain a pre-filing order permitting
them to litigate their claims anonymously. 

 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer.  They contend Defendant clearly marketed and
sold its products to the public, and doing so gave rise to a duty to disclose
any harms associated with the products.  They
argue they have properly pled a claim for fraud by suppression or concealment,
because Defendant did not disclose the fact that its machines produced harmful radiation.  They contend there is no requirement that
they plead facts showing a direct transactional relationship between them and
the defendant, and allegations that the defendant suppressed information from
the general public are sufficient to state a claim for fraud.  Finally, they argue the issues relating to
the use of a pseudonym are moot in light of the order denying their request to
proceed under a pseudonym.  
 

Analysis re: Third
     Cause of Action 

Plaintiffs’ third cause of action
is entitled “False Representation Under Restatement of Torts Section 402-B.”  Notably, the cause of action was pled only
against Does 1-100.  Plaintiffs have
named Smiths as one of the doe defendants to whom this cause of action applies.
 
§402-B of the Restatement of Torts
states:
One engaged in the business of
selling chattels who, by advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes to the public
a misrepresentation of a material fact concerning the character or quality of a
chattel sold by him is subject to liability for physical harm to a consumer of
the chattel caused by justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation, even
though
(a) it is not made fraudulently or
negligently, and
(b) the consumer has not bought the
chattel from or entered into any contractual relation with the seller.
Caveat:
The Institute expresses no opinion
as to whether the rule stated in this Section may apply
(1) where the representation is not
made to the public, but to an individual, or
(2) where physical harm is caused
to one who is not a consumer of the chattel.
 
Plaintiffs’ cause of action is
confusing because it appears to be a hybrid claim between affirmative
misrepresentations, suppression of facts, and implied warranties of
fitness.  §402B, above, appears to apply
only to affirmative statements.  While Plaintiffs’
cause of action alleges the doe defendants made affirmative statements, no
actual affirmative statements are ever pled. 
The demurrer is therefore sustained. 
Leave to amend is granted if Plaintiffs can plead that Smiths made
specific affirmative representations that were false.  Alternatively, Plaintiffs may plead a claim
for fraud by suppression or concealment, but that claim would not sound under
§402B.
 

Analysis re: Fourth
     Cause of Action

Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action
is pled as one for “Intentional Tort Under Civil Code §§1708 through 1710.”  The cause of action is also pled against Does
1-100.  
 
Civil Code §1708 provides, “Every person
is bound, without contract, to abstain from injuring the person or property of
another, or infringing upon any of his or her rights.”  §1709 provides, “One who willfully deceives
another with intent to induce him to alter his position to his injury or risk,
is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.”  
§1710 provides:
A deceit, within the meaning of the
last section, is either:
1. The suggestion, as a fact, of
that which is not true, by one who does not believe it to be true;
2. The assertion, as a fact, of
that which is not true, by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it to
be true;
3. The suppression of a fact, by
one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts which
are likely to mislead for want of communication of that fact; or,
4. A promise, made without any intention
of performing it.
 
It appears Plaintiffs’ complaint is
intended to sound under §1710(3), as Plaintiffs are alleging Defendant was
bound to disclose the facts relating to its product (and the radiation in the
product), but failed to do so.  
 
5.     Motion
to Strike (Stadco LA, LLC)
Defense Counsel, Eric C. Bradley declares
the parties met and conferred prior to the filing of this motion to strike, but
were unable to resolve the dispute.  The Court
will rule on the motion on its merits.
 
Plaintiffs allege Stadco owned
premises and was similarly situated to Pacific Maritime Services.  Stadco moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for
punitive damages and related allegations. 
The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend for the reasons discussed
in connection with PMS’s motion to strike, above.
 
6.     Demurrer
(LBCT, LLC)
Plaintiffs dismissed LBCT, LLC on
1/25/24.  The demurrer is therefore
moot.  
 
7.     Joinders
The various joinders to the demurrers
and motions to strike are sustained, overruled, granted, and denied in the same
manner as the challenges to which they are submitted.  
 
8.     Conclusion
Plaintiffs are ordered to submit an
amended complaint, in compliance with the above ruling, within twenty
days.  Defendants are ordered to file responsive
pleadings within the statutory time thereafter. 
The parties must meet and confer in good faith if any party intends to
challenge the amended pleading.
 
PMS is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.
 If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   