 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  C KHACHIKYAN v. PLATINUM
TRANSPORTATION GROUP, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  22STCV29276
HEARING:  02/29/24
 
#8
 
    
I.       
Intervenor
PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE’s Ex Parte Application for an Order Appointing
a Discovery Referee is GRANTED. 
 
   
II.       
Intervenor
PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY’s Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED.
 Trial is CONTINUED from March 11,
2024 to March 26, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-F.  The Final Status Conference is CONTINUED
to March 12, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-F. 

 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
Motion
for Appointment of Discovery Referee
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY and Defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO
(collectively “Moving Party”) move for the appointment of a discovery referee
to preside over oral depositions based upon the manner in which Plaintiff’s
counsel has conducted herself during several depositions.  Moving Party also requests that a discovery
referee be appointed to “determine any and all disputes relevant to the
proceedings and scheduling of depositions.” (Motion 2:7-8.) Moving Party
indicates that at there are “approximately 25 more fact depositions and then 10
expert depositions” affected. (Motion 11:16.) 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that a discovery referee should not be appointed
because trial is preferentially set and cannot be continued again. Plaintiffs
maintain that the reason depositions have not been completed to date is due to
the Moving Party’s own dilatory tactics. In their Supplemental Opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that the Motion should be denied because Plaintiff Ani
Khachikyan is unable to pay for a discovery referee. 
 
“Unless
the parties have agreed to a reference, the Court should not make blanket
orders directing all discovery motions to a discovery referee except in the
unusual case where a majority of factors favoring reference are present. These
include: (1) there are multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there are multiple
motions to be heard simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only one in a
continuum of many; (4) the number of documents to be reviewed (especially in
issues based on assertions of privilege) make the inquiry inordinately
time-consuming. [¶] In making its decision, the trial courts need consider the
statutory scheme is designed only to permit reference over the parties’
objections where that procedure is necessary, not merely convenient. [Citation.]
Where one or more of the above factors unduly impact the Court’s time and/or
limited resources, the Court is clearly within its discretion to make an
appropriate reference.” (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 94, 105-106.)  
 
In
this case, the Court finds that a “majority” of the factors are present. This
case is set for trial based on preference under CCP §36(b).  There are a number of depositions remaining;
and the parties have relied upon having motions/requests heard by way of ex
parte applications due to the preferential trial designation and the Court’s
congested calendar.  A discovery referee
can more quickly and efficiently resolve the parties’ outstanding discovery
conflicts, which would enable this case to proceed to trial as soon as
possible.  Moreover, due to the highly
contentious nature of the pending litigation, and accusations of incivility
during depositions, a discovery referee can address any improper conduct as it
occurs during a deposition.  
 
The
Court finds good cause to appoint a Discovery Referee for the following limited
purposes: (1) to preside over all remaining depositions in this action; (2) to
resolve any and all disputes relevant to the scheduling/occurrence of
depositions; (3) to restrain all counsel in this action from impeding the
depositions; and (4) to report their findings and recommendations to this
Court. The Court defers to the Discovery Referee with respect tot the issue of
whether depositions should be conducted in person or remotely. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for an Order Extending or Reopening Discovery to Conduct Specified
Depositions and for Sanctions is ADVANCED from Thursday, May 16, 2024 to
today’s date and DENIED without prejudice to be determined by the
Discovery Referee. 
 
Counsel
are ORDERED to meet and confer to
agree on a stipulated discovery referee, who has agreed to serve in that
capacity. Counsel shall prepare a stipulated formal order for the Court, in
compliance with CCP §639(d), including (1) the exceptional circumstances
requiring the reference; (2) the subject matter or matters included in the
reference; (3) the name, business address, and telephone number of the referee;
and (4) the maximum hourly rate the referee may charge, not later than Thursday,
March 7, 2024. 
 
If
Counsel cannot reach an agreement on the identity of the referee, each side
shall submit its proposed list of three potential referees, together with their
names, business addresses, and telephone numbers, and each referee’s hourly
rate, not later than Thursday, March 7, 2024.  
 
The
Court will thereafter issue or execute an Order appointing a referee to make
his or her reports and recommendations to this Court.  At this time, the Court finds that no party
has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of a referee’s
fees. (CCP §639(d)(6)(A).) Plaintiff Ani Kachikyan declares she is unable to
pay her pro rata share due to injuries allegedly sustained during the
automobile collision at issue in this case. 
However, it is undisputed that Plaintiff Kachikyan is married and shares
custody of minor plaintiffs with her husband. (Kachikyan Decl., ¶ 12; Reply, p.
3:10-13.) To the extent that Plaintiff Kachikyan has a community property
interest in her husband’s income and assets, there has been no showing that her
husband is unable to pay aside from Plaintiff Kachikyan’s conclusory
statement that her husband’s income “is barely enough to pay for daily
necessities at this time.” (Kachikyan Decl., ¶ 12.)  Therefore, the referee’s fees shall be borne
equally by the parties, pending the report and recommendation as to which party
should be responsible for those fees.  
 
Motion
to Continue Trial 
 
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good case requiring the continuance. Circumstances that
may indicate good cause include…. (6) A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts…. [¶] (d)(1) The proximity of the trial date; Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The Court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials…..” (CRC Rule
3.1332(c)-(d).) 
 
“Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action.” (CCP §2024.020.)
 
“Any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
pertaining to an [expert witness]… on or before the 15th day, and to have
motions concerning that discovery heard on or before the 10th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action.” (CCP
§2024.030.) 
 
Trial
in this action is entitled to preferential trial setting based on the status of
the minor plaintiffs, and is currently scheduled for March 11, 2024.  
 
However,
before trial can begin, a number of outstanding depositions must occur and
discovery motions must be heard. 
Plaintiffs have made no showing that they would be prejudiced by a
continuance of the trial date, despite the minor plaintiffs’ designation,
especially since Plaintiffs also seek an Order to compel outstanding
depositions and to extend/reopen discovery. 
 
The
Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED.  Trial is CONTINUED from March 11, 2024 to
March 26, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-F. 
The Final Status Conference is CONTINUED to March 12, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
in Dept. SE-F.  Discovery deadlines for
all remaining depositions are extended to the new trial date.  All other discovery deadlines will track the
new trial date. 