 Case Number:  23NWCV00185    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  C RACK LEE, INC. v. M.G. UNICORN,
INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00185 
HEARING:  02/29/24
 
#3
 
Cross-Defendants
RACK LEE, LLC and XIANGMEI LI’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Cross-Defendants
RACK LEE, LLC and XIANGMEI LI’s Motion to Strike Portions of the
Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has
been satisfied. 
 
This action for breach of contract was filed on January 18,
2023. On October 26, 2023, the subject Cross-Complaint (“XC”) was filed by
Cross-Complainant M.G. UNICORN, INC. (“Cross-Complainant”) against
Cross-Defendants RACK LEE, LLC and XIANGMEI LI (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”). 
 
The XC alleges the following relevant facts: “At no time
have Plaintiff and Defendant have a written contract for the purchase and sale
of goods. [¶] Due to their mutual interest in selling wire storage racks, for
the last 3 or 4 years Plaintiff and Defendant have conducted business
together.” (XC ¶¶9-10.) “Plaintiff was supposed to deliver exclusively to
Defendant up to 30 containers per month of wire racks of specific size and
quality. [¶] Plaintiff never delivered 30 containers per month. [¶] Plaintiff constantly
delivered products with quality issues. [¶] Plaintiff did not exclusively
deliver to Defendant.” (XC ¶¶10-14.) Beginning in May of 2022, the business
relationship became strained between the parties due to alleged quality issues affecting
various deliveries. “In July, Cross-Defendant made several deliveries of wire
racks to Cross-Complainant. [¶] Cross-complainant received multiple complaints
about the quality of the racks and requested that Cross-Defendant return the
payment that had been made for these racks and pick the wire racks up from
Cross-complainants warehouse. [¶] Cross-Defendant has refused to pick the wire
racks up from Cross-Complainants warehouse.” (XC ¶¶ 67-69.) Cross-Complainant
alleges that Cross-Defendants owe reasonable storage and warehouse fees
incurred by Cross-Defendants failure to pick up rejected goods. 
 
The XC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Common
Count – Goods and Services Rendered 
(2) Conversion
 
Cross-Defendants specially and generally demur to each cause
of action. Cross-Defendants also argue that the XC fails to state sufficient
facts to support the inclusion of Xiangmei Li as a cross-defendant. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that the XC is fatally uncertain. This argument lacks merit because “[a]
special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to
incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed at the uncertainty
existing in the allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950)
100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear
from Cross-Defendants’ other arguments that they understand what the XC at
least attempts to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The Demurrer is not
sustained on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
First Cause of
Action – Common Count (Goods and Services Rendered)
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action for goods and
services rendered is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
A demurrer to a common count is properly sustained where
there is neither an express nor implied promise between the parties. (See Farmers
Ins. V. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) Here, and as argued by
Cross-Defendants in the instant demurrer, Cross-Complainant has not alleged a
“promise” that Cross-Defendants would reimburse Cross-Complainant for incorrect
or unacceptable goods.
 
Second Cause of Action – Conversion 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for conversion are: (1) Plaintiff’s ownership or
right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the
property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “A
cause of action for conversion of money can be stated only where a defendant
interferes with the plaintiff’s possessory interest in a specific, identifiable
sum, such as when a trustee or agent misappropriates the money entrusted to
him.” (Kim v. Westmoor Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284.)
[U]nless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent
accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment,”
money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion. (McKell v.
Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to
amend. Cross-Complainant does not allege a claim for conversion based on a
specific identifiable sum of money. Rather, Cross-Complainant alleges an
entitlement to “storage fees”—which are not the proper subject of a conversion
claim. 
 
Alter Ego/The Entire XC as to Xiangmei Li
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainants fail to
adequately allege facts to support naming Xiangmei Li as an individual
cross-defendant. 
 
Cross-Complainant alleges that Rack Lee and M.G. Unicorn
conducted business together, and that Xiangmei Li is the owner of Rack Lee LLC.
(See XC ¶¶8 and 10.) 
 
To recover on an alter
ego theory of liability, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts to “show a
unity of interest and ownership, and inequitable result from treatment of the
corporation as the sole actor.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 415.) Among the factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are
commingling of funds and other assets of the entities, the holding out by one
entity that is liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership
in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a
mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.” (Sonora Diamond Corp.
v. Sup. Ct (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-539.) Other factors include
inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of
segregation of corporate records, and identical directors and officers. (Id.
at 539.)
 
Cross-Complainants do not allege that Xiangmei Li and Rack
Lee are alter egos of one another, and Cross-Complainants do not allege
sufficient facts to support any grounds for Xiangmei Li’s direct liability
under either claim. 
 
The demurrer is also properly sustained with 30 days leave
to amend on this additional ground. 
 
The Motion to Strike
portions of the XC is rendered MOOT by the Court’s ruling above. 