  Case Number:  20TRCV00469    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Thursday, November 2, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 13
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ronald Brannon 
            20TRCV00469
1.      JP
Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s Motion to Set Aside Notice of Settlement and to Enter
Judgment Pursuant to Stipulation    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            JP
Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s Motion to Set Aside Notice of Settlement and to Enter
Judgment Pursuant to Stipulation is granted. 
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on July 6, 2020. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. This
is an action for common counts in which Plaintiff contends that it is owed $32,770.76.

 
            Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
            CCP § 664.6 states: “If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court
or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.
If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties
to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”
 
            Plaintiff contends that the Stipulation Agreement was
executed on October 13, 2022. (Decl., John Phan, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff states that Defendants breached the
terms of the Stipulation. According to Plaintiff, Defendant only paid a total of
$1,300.00 in payments under the Stipulation and stopped making payments after
March 24, 2023.  (Id. at ¶¶ 6-7.)  The Court notes that Defendant failed to file
any written opposition to the motion. 
 
               Therefore, the Court determines that Plaintiff has met
its burden to establish that a breach of the stipulation agreement exists such
that a judgment, pursuant to the terms of the stipulation, may be ordered.  
 
               Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside the Notice of
Settlement and to Enter Judgment is granted. 
 
               Plaintiff is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.
 