  Case Number:  21STCV31743    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  August 26, 2021, Plaintiff Malvina Mkchyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Defendants Margaret Mary Lewis (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for motor  vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  May 15, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On August  13, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s  attendance and testimony at a deposition and for sanctions.  The Court ordered Plaintiff to  appear and testify at a deposition and to pay Defendant $1,191.65 in sanctions by  September 12, 2024.  On  October 10, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for terminating sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on December  10, 2024.  On November 21, 2024,  Defendant filed a supplemental declaration supporting the motion.  On December 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel  filed a late declaration opposing the motion, which the Court has not  considered.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Defendant  asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions on Plaintiff and dismiss the case.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating  sanctions  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any  particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,  after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity  for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in  conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:  “(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may  also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has  engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised  that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  “(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering  that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance  with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery  process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting  any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or  opposing designated claims or defenses.  “(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an  order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  from introducing designated matters in evidence.  “(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by  one of the following orders:  “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of  the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.  “(2) An order staying further proceedings by that  party until an order for discovery is obeyed.  “(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of  the action, of that party.  “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against  that party.  “(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an  order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court.  “(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other  section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not  impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide  electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or  overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic  information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.030.)  B.   Sanctions for failure to comply with order compelling  deposition  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2024.450, subdivision (h), provides:  “If [a] party or party-affiliated deponent then fails  to obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production [at a  deposition], the court may make those orders that are just, including the  imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that party  deponent or against the party with whom the deponent is affiliated. In lieu of,  or in addition to, this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction  under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that deponent or  against the party with whom that party deponent is affiliated, and in favor of  any party who, in person or by attorney, attended in the expectation that the  deponent’s testimony would be taken pursuant to that order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (h).)  C.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with  discovery orders  A  violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating  sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th  1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in  disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d  771, 795-796 (Deyo).)  A  terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with  caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A  decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a  violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery  rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky  v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (“Mileikowsky”).)   DISCUSSION  Defendant  asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions on Plaintiff and dismiss the  case because Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s August 13, 2024 order to appear and testify at a deposition and to pay  Defendant $1,191.65 in sanctions by September 12, 2024.  The  Court denies Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions.  Defendant has shown that Plaintiff violated  one discovery order.  Defendant has not  shown that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance  with the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128  Cal.App.4th at pp. 279-280.)  Instead,  the Court orders Plaintiff to comply with the Court’s August 13, 2024 order by  December 24, 2024.  The Court orders Defendant to make all reasonable arrangements to ensure that Plaintiff can attend a deposition by December 24, 2024. CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Margaret Mary Lewis’s motion for terminating sanctions  against Plaintiff Malvina Mkchyan.  The  Court ORDERS Plaintiff Malvina Mkchyan to appear and testify at a deposition  and to pay Defendant Margaret Mary Lewis $1,191.65 in sanctions by December 24,  2024. The Court orders Defendant Margaret Mary Lewis to make all reasonable arrangements to ensure that Plaintiff Malvina Mkchyan can attend a deposition by December 24, 2024.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.