 Case Number:  BC712532    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
June 29, 2018, Plaintiff Steven Peisner (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Keck Hospital of USC, James C. Wang, DPM (“Wang”), and Does 1-25 for
medical negligence, medical battery, and negligent hiring, supervision and
retention. 
On
August 24, 2018, Defendants The University of Southern California, dba Keck
Hospital of USC (“Keck”), and Wang filed answers. 
Also
on August 24, 2018, Defendants filed a stipulation striking portions of
Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
May 25, 2023, the case was called for trial. 
On June 8, 2023, the jury returned a defense verdict.  On June 29, 2023, the Court entered a
judgment.  
On
August 18, 2023, the Court entered an amended judgment.  The amended judgment stated in part that Keck
and Wang “shall each be entitled to recover their respective costs, as
permitted by California law, from [Plaintiff] in the amount of $103,021.71,
plus all applicable legal interest.” 
On
August 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal.  On December 6, 2023, the Court of Appeal
dismissed the appeal.  On March 5, 2024,
the Court of Appeal issued the remittitur. 
On
February 23, 2024, Defendants filed an acknowledgment of assignment of judgment
stating that Wang had assigned his rights, title, and interest in the judgment
“consisting of the unpaid judgment i[n] the sum of $103,021.71, plus any
additional and accruing interest at 10% per annum and recovery costs” to
assignee Beta Healthcare Group Risk Management
Authority (“Beta”).  On June 18,
2024, Defendants filed a notice of acknowledgement that Wang had assigned his
judgment against Plaintiff to Beta. 
On
July 12, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of acknowledgement of assignment of
judgment stating that Keck had “assigned the Judgment against [Plaintiff] to [Beta],
as noted in the attached Acknowledgement of Assignment of Judgment.” 
On
July 17, 2024, the Court issued writs of execution on the amended judgment. 
On
August 23, 2024, Beta filed a motion for assignment of rights, restraining
order, and turnover order for funds held by credit card processors due Plaintiff
and request for judicial notice.  The
motion was set for hearing on October 24, 2024. 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On October 14, 2024, Beta filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to December
10, 2024. 
BETA’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Denied.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(l)
[“Any request for judicial notice must be made in a separate document . . .”].) 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
          Beta asks the Court (1) to order the assignment to Beta of
payments which Plaintiff has the right to receive from four companies, (2) to
issue an order restraining Plaintiff from assigning or disposing of his right to
receive these payments, and (3) to order Plaintiff to transfer to the levying
officer possession of documentary
evidence of title to property of or a debt owed to Plaintiff which Beta seeks to
levy on. 
          Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion or to delay the
effectiveness of any order granting the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 708.510 provides in part: 
“Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application
of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment
debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver appointed pursuant
to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to
payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future
developments, including but not limited to the following types of payments: 
“(1) Wages due from the federal government that are
not subject to withholding under an earnings withholding order. 
“(2) Rents. 
“(3) Commissions. 
“(4) Royalties. 
“(5) Payments due from a patent or copyright. 
“(6) Insurance policy loan value. 
“(b) The notice of the motion shall be served on the
judgment debtor. Service shall be made personally or by mail. 
“(c) Subject to subdivisions (d), (e), and (f), in
determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment
pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration all relevant
factors, including the following: 
“(1) The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor
who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in part by the
judgment debtor. 
“(2) Payments the judgment debtor is required to make
or that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments,
including earnings assignment orders for support. 
“(3) The amount remaining due on the money judgment. 
“(4) The amount being or to be received in
satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned. 
“(d) A right to payment may be assigned pursuant to
this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).)        
          Code of Civil Procedure section 708.520 provides: 
“(a)    When an
application is made pursuant to Section 708.510 or thereafter, the judgment
creditor may apply to the court for an order restraining the judgment debtor
from assigning or otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to
be assigned. The application shall be made on noticed motion if the court so
directs or a court rule so requires. Otherwise, it may be made ex parte. 
“(b)    The court
may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a showing of need for the
order. The court, in its discretion, may require the judgment creditor to
provide an undertaking. 
“(c)    The court
may modify or vacate the order at any time with or without a hearing on such
terms as are just. 
“(d)    The order
shall be personally served upon the judgment debtor and shall contain a notice
to the judgment debtor that failure to comply with the order may subject the
judgment debtor to being held in contempt of court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.520.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 699.040 provides: 
“(a)    If a writ of execution is issued, the judgment creditor may apply
to the court ex parte, or on noticed motion if the court so directs or a court
rule so requires, for an order directing the judgment debtor to transfer to the
levying officer either or both of the following: 
“(1)    Possession of the property sought to be
levied upon if the property is sought to be levied upon by taking it into
custody. 
“(2)    Possession of documentary evidence of title
to property of or a debt owed to the judgment debtor that is sought to be
levied upon. An order pursuant to this paragraph may be served when the
property or debt is levied upon or thereafter. 
“(b)    The court
may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a showing of need for the
order. 
“(c)    The order
shall be personally served on the judgment debtor and shall contain a notice to
the judgment debtor that failure to comply with the order may subject the
judgment debtor to arrest and punishment for contempt of court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 699.040.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Request for order of assignment 
In
its motion, Beta asks the Court “[f]or an order assigning all accounts,
accounts receivable, rights to payment of money, contingent rights, contract
rights, deposits and deposit accounts, claims against third parties, monies due
from third parties, and/or the percent thereof due and in favor of and for the
benefit of [Plaintiff], jointly and severally, or any of Defendants' [sic]
partners, assignees, and other persons acting on his behalf, (collectively,
PEISNER RECIPIENT)” under Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510 “for the
following”: 
“A. Any and all distributions, revenues, payments,
royalties, commissions, stream of funds, distribution to the financial
institution (i.e., bank) or any funds and/or the percent thereof due and from
the following PEISNER CREDIT CARD PROCESSORS: 
Florida:        Acquiring Solutions International, Inc.
(d.b.a. ACQUPAY)
Bankcard Advisors Corporation,
Direct Marketing Experts, Inc.,
V-KOOL Products, Inc., 
California:    Acquiring Solutions, LLC. (MERGER) (d.b.a.
ACQUPAY) 
Acquiring Solutions International, Inc., (d.b.a.
ACQUPAY)
Bankcard Advisors Corporation,
Direct Marketing Experts, Inc., 
and
each of them, joint[ly] and severally (collectively ‘PEISNER CREDIT CARD
PROCESSORS’) to the PEISNER RECIPIENT's bank, financial institution, or any
third party receiving funds from the Credit Card Processor for the benefit of
the PEISNER RECIPIENT.” 
“B. Any and all [sic] emanating from, paid
from, held by, in trust of, in the hands of, in a conduit or transit from,
security deposit, held in reservoirs, or otherwise in accounts and/or the
percent thereof due and of any and all CREDIT CARD PROCESSORS. For purposes of
clarity, CREDIT CARD PROCESSORS any and all bank accounts of any type, checking
accounts, certificates of deposits, lines of credit, credit balances due under
ATM cards, savings accounts, trust accounts, safety deposit boxes, or any
accounts which hold, in any manner, funds due to PEISNER RECIPIENT and
specifically subject to the terms and conditions of this order, and constitute
a right of payment as assigned herein.” 
Beta appears to be asking the Court to assign to Beta Plaintiff's right to receive
payments from four companies: (1) Acquiring Solutions International, Inc.
(“Acquiring Solutions”), (2) Bankcard Advisors Corporation (“Bankcard
Advisors”), (3) Direct Marketing Experts, Inc. (“Direct Marketing”), and (4)
V-KOOL Products, Inc. (“V-KOOL”). 
Plaintiff opposes Beta’s motion, arguing that Beta’s request is too general and does not
identify the specific sources of the money to be assigned.  Plaintiff appears to mean that Beta has not
identified the types of payments that Acquiring Solutions, Bankcard Advisors,
Directing Marketing, and V-KOOL make to Plaintiff which the Court can assign to
Beta.  The Court finds that Beta has
sufficiently identified the types of possible payments from Acquiring Solutions, Bankcard Advisors, Directing
Marketing, and V-KOOL to Plaintiff which are subject to assignment. 
In
addition, Plaintiff argues the Court should not issue an assignment order because
he can barely meet his family’s living expenses.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (c)(1)
[court may consider “The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a
natural person and of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment
debtor”].)  Plaintiff states that he barely
makes enough money to support himself and his wife and contribute to the
support of a step-daughter who has special needs. 
Plaintiff has attached a W-2 form to his opposition showing that he received $12,000.00
in wages from Acquiring Solutions in 2023.  According to Plaintiff, he did not receive
wages, a salary, or a dividend from Acquiring Solutions in 2024 and did not
receive wages, a salary, or a dividend from Bankcard Advisors in 2023 or 2024.  Plaintiff also asserts that Acquiring Solutions, Bankcard Advisors, Directing
Marketing, and V-KOOL do not owe Plaintiff any money.  (Opposition p. 6.)  Plaintiff does not claim, however, that
Acquiring Solutions, Bankcard Advisors, Directing Marketing, and V-KOOL will
not be required to make payments to him in the future. 
Plaintiff has not provided information about his income and expenses that would
allow the Court to determine whether granting Beta’s motion would impair
Plaintiff's ability to provide for his family. 
The Court therefore continues the hearing and orders Plaintiff to provide
a supplemental brief addressing his income, expenses, and any other financial
information the Court would need to determine whether granting Beta’s motion
would impair Plaintiff’s ability to provide for his family.  Beta may file a responsive supplemental
brief. 
If Beta
and Plaintiff resolve the issues raised in this motion before the continued
hearing, Beta is to take the motion off calendar. 
B.   Request for restraining order 
Beta
asks the Court to issue a restraining order restraining “PEISNER RECIPIENT from
the sale, alienation, mortgage, lien, encumbrance, advancement, cashing or
negotiation, or receipt or exploitation of any of the accounts” under Code of
Civil Procedure section 708.520, subdivision (a).”  Beta states that it needs the order because
Plaintiff has not voluntarily made payments on the judgment. 
Plaintiff opposes the request for a restraining order, arguing that a restraining order
must be limited to the “right to payment that is sought to be assigned.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.520, subd. (a).) 
The
Court grants Beta’s request and orders that Plaintiff is restrained from assigning
or otherwise disposing of his rights to payment from Acquiring Solutions,
Bankcard Advisors, Directing Marketing, and V-KOOL. 
Based
on the Court’s review of Plaintiff’s financial information, the Court may revise
this order on the continued hearing date. 
C.   Request for order directing transfer of documentary
evidence of title 
Beta
asks the Court “[f]or an order compelling PEISNER RECIPIENT to tum over any and
all documentary evidence of any of the accounts, including but not limited to,
any checks, drafts, money orders, deposits, deposit accounts, books, records,
papers or files, listing of accounts, accounts receivable ledgers or journals,
to and on behalf of the SHERIFF, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 110 NORTH GRAND AVENUE,
ROOM 525, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90012” under Code of Civil Procedure section 699.040,
subdivisions (a)-( c).
 On
July 17, 2024, the Los Angeles Superior Court issued writs of execution for Los
Angeles, Orange, and Sacramento counties. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 699.040, subd. (a).) 
Beta argues that it needs a turnover order to prevent Plaintiff from
frustrating the purpose of the assignment order. 
The
Court defers ruling on this request and continues the matter as set forth below. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on Beta Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority’s motion for
an order of assignment under Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510 to
February 3, 2025 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
The Court GRANTS Beta Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority’s
motion for an order under Code of Civil Procedure section 708.520 and orders
that Plaintiff Steven Peisner is restrained from assigning or otherwise
disposing of his rights to payment from Acquiring Solutions International,
Inc., Bankcard Advisors Corporation, Direct Marketing Experts, Inc., and V-KOOL
Products, Inc. 
The
Court CONTINUES Beta Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority’s motion for a turnover order under Code of Civil Procedure section 699.040 to February 3, 2025 at 1:30
p.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
The
Court orders Plaintiff Steven Peisner to file a supplemental brief by January
21, 2025 providing information about his income, expenses, and any other
financial information that would allow the Court to determine whether granting
Beta Healthcare Group Risk Management
Authority’s motion for an order of assignment under Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510 would impair Plaintiff
Steven Peisner’s ability to provide for his family. 
Beta
Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority may file a responsive supplemental
brief by January 28, 2025. 
Beta
Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
Beta
Healthcare Group Risk Management Authority is ordered to file proof of service
of this ruling with the Court within five days.