 Case Number:  22STCV03850    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 1, 2022, Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Bella Assets LLC (“Bella”)
and Does 1-20 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
February 8, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants Bada,
LLC (“Bada”) as Doe 1 and Hyun Suk Cho (“Hyuk Suk Cho”) as Doe 2. 
On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Yoon
Jung Cho as Doe 3. 
On
May 24, 2023, Bella and Bada filed an answer. 
On
May 16, 2024, the Court dismissed Bada without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
August 9, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel the
deposition of Bella’s person most knowledgeable and for production of
documents.  The Court ordered Bella to
produce a person or persons most knowledgeable to testify about the subjects
listed in Plaintiff’s deposition notice and to produce responsive documents by
September 8, 2024.  The Court also ordered
Bella and its counsel to pay Plaintiff $750.00 in sanctions by September 8,
2024. 
On
October 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for terminating sanctions or in the
alternative issue sanctions against Bella and for monetary sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on December
10, 2024.  On November 27, 2024, Bella
filed an opposition and request for sanctions. 
On December 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions or, in the alternative, issue
sanctions on Bella and to impose monetary sanctions on Bella. 
Bella
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering
that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance
with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an
order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030.) 
B.   Sanctions for failure to comply with order compelling
deposition 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.450, subdivision (h), provides: 
“If [a] party or party-affiliated deponent then fails
to obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production [at a
deposition], the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that party
deponent or against the party with whom the deponent is affiliated. In lieu of,
or in addition to, this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against that deponent or against
the party with whom that party deponent is affiliated, and in favor of any
party who, in person or by attorney, attended in the expectation that the
deponent’s testimony would be taken pursuant to that order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (h).) 
C.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with
discovery orders 
A
violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (“Mileikowsky”).)  
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions on Bella and strike Bella’s
answer or, in the alternative, impose issue sanctions because Bella failed to
comply with the Court’s August 9, 2024 order to produce its person most
qualified for deposition, produce documents, and pay sanctions.  To facilitate settlement discussions, Plaintiff
extended the September 8, 2024 deadline for Bella to comply with the Court’s
August 9, 2024 order by two weeks, making the deadline September 22, 2024.  (Axtell dec. ¶12 & exh. 3.)  However, Plaintiff argues, Bella has still
not complied with the order. 
In
opposition, Bella argues Plaintiff’s case is frivolous and Bella has already
provided Plaintiff all available information. 
Bella does not address its failure to comply with the Court’s August 9,
2024 order. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff has shown that Bella violated one
discovery order.  Plaintiff has not shown
that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance with
the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 279-280.) 
The
Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions because an order that
Bella owed Plaintiff a duty of care and breached that duty is the equivalent of striking Bella's answer. 
Instead,
the Court orders Bella to comply with the Court’s August 9, 2024 order by
December 24, 2024.  The Court orders Plaintiff
to take all necessary steps and make all reasonable arrangements to ensure that Bella’s person most
knowledgeable can attend a deposition by December 24, 2024. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to award $750.00 in monetary sanctions based on 3 hours of attorney
time to prepare the moving papers at a rate of $250.00 per hour.  The Court grants the request and orders Bella
and its counsel to pay Plaintiff $750.00 by January 9, 2025. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s motion for terminating sanctions or, in
the alternative, issue sanctions against Defendant
Bella Assets LLC. 
The
Court ORDERS Defendant Bella Assets LLC to produce its person or persons most
knowledgeable to testify about the subjects listed in Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s
deposition notice and to produce responsive documents by December 24, 2024. The Court orders Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim to take all necessary steps and make all reasonable arrangements to ensure that Bella’s person most knowledgeable can attend a deposition by December 24, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim’s request for sanctions and ORDERS Defendant
Bella Assets LLC and its counsel to pay Plaintiff Yeon Su Kim $750.00 by
January 9, 2025. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.