  Case Number:  21STCV10856    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for New
Trial
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Salvatore Anthony DiMaria, ADD Enterprises, Inc., Manning’s Beef LLC, Charlie
DiMaria & Son, Inc., and Manning Land Co., LLC
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Linkun Investment, Inc.
                                    
 
 
The Motion for
New Trial is GRANTED in part. 
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be
held, unless Plaintiff consents to a reduction in damages by $3,400,000.00 to a
total amount of $5,868,261.00.
 
        Plaintiff shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order during which
it may consent to the reduction of damages set forth above. Failure to respond
shall be deemed a rejection of the reduction of damages, and a new trial
limited to the issue of the rejecting plaintiff’s damages shall be automatically
granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (b).) If Plaintiff chooses to accept
the reduction of damages, Plaintiff shall concurrently serve and submit to the
Court a proposed amended judgment reflecting the modified judgment amount.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (c).)
 
 
PRELIMINARY
COMMENTS:
 
        Given the Court’s
ruling on this Motion for a New Trial, the Court will take off-calendar the
following three motions:
 
·      
the Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add an
Additional Defendant (filed by Plaintiff on November 7, 2023); 
·      
the Motion for Attorney Fees (filed by Plaintiff
on November 7, 2023); and 
·      
the Motion to Tax Costs (filed by Defendants on
November 28, 2023). 
 
The Court will hear from counsel at the December 15, 2023 hearing
when they would like to reschedule these motions.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 19, 2021, Plaintiff Linkun Investment, Inc.
filed its Complaint against Defendants Salvatore Anthony DiMaria, Shing “Jacky”
Lo, ADD Enterprises, Inc., Manning’s Beef LLC, Charlie DiMaria & Son Inc.,
and Manning Land Company, LLC on causes of action arising from the Parties’
business interactions. 
 
On November 29, 2022, Plaintiff amended its Complaint to
substitute Doe 1 with RNCK, Inc. 
 
On June 30, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s
Office dismissed without prejudice Defendant Shing “Jacky” Lo from the
Complaint. 
 
From July 31 to August 4, 2023, the Court held a jury
trial in this matter. 
 
On August 4, 2023, the Jury found: 
 
(1)       in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendant ADD on Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract
pursuant to the “Joint Venture Agreement”; 
 
(2)       in favor of Defendant
DiMaria and against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of
contract pursuant to a personal guaranty;
 
(3)       in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendants DiMaria, ADD Enterprises, Manning’s Beef LLC, Charlie
DiMaria & Son, Inc., and Manning Land Co. on Plaintiff’s cause of action
for fraud;
 
(4)       in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendants DiMaria and ADD Enterprises on Plaintiff’s cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty; 
 
(5)       in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendants DiMaria and Charlie DiMaria & Son, Inc. on
Plaintiff’s cause of action for conversion; 
 
(6)       in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendants DiMaria, ADD Enterprises, Manning’s Beef LLC, Charlie
DiMaria & Son, Inc., and Manning Land Co. on causes of action for violation
of Penal Code section 496;
 
(7)       $1,784,887.00 in
damages for Plaintiff for its “investment and profit share,” on all six causes
of action;
 
(8)       $480,000.00 in
damages for Plaintiff for its “benefit of the bargain,” on the causes of action
for fraud and breach of fiduciary duty;
 
(9)       $33,600.00 in
prejudgment interest for Plaintiff, on the causes of action for fraud and
breach of fiduciary duty;
 
(10)    $3,400,000.00 in
punitive damages for Plaintiff, on the causes of action for fraud, breach of
fiduciary duty, and conversion.  
 
The Jury found that Plaintiff’s total damages were $5,698,487.00.

 
On August 22, 2023, pursuant to a Court order at the
conclusion of trial, the Parties filed simultaneous briefs regarding treble
damages pursuant to Penal Code section 496 (“Plaintiff’s Brief on Treble
Damages” and “Defendants’ Brief on Treble Damages”). 
 
On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Reply to
Defendants’ Brief on Treble Damages.
 
On August 29, 2023, the Court held that Plaintiff could
receive both treble damages pursuant to Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c)
(for a violation of Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a)) and punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294 (for fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and
conversion). 
 
On October 17, 2023, the Court entered Amended Judgment
in this matter. The Amended Judgment was in favor of Plaintiff and against
Defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of $9,268,261.00. The Amended
Judgment was also in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant ADD Enterprises,
Inc. for contractual prejudgment interest in the amount of $747,220.00, with
interest to incur at the rate of $489.01 per day until paid in full. 
 
On October 23, 2023, the Court gave Defendants until
November 27, 2023 to file a motion for new trial. 
 
On November 2, 2023, Defendants filed their Notice of
Intent to Move for New Trial (“Notice”). 
 
On November 22, 2023, Defendants filed their Memorandum
of Points and Authorities in Support of Their Motion for New Trial (“Motion for
New Trial”). In support of their Motion for New Trial, Defendants concurrently
filed Declaration of Samuel C. Jeon. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Opposition to
the Motion for New Trial. In support of its Opposition, Plaintiff concurrently
filed Declaration of Gary K. Brucker, Jr.
 
On December 11, 2023, Defendants filed their Reply
regarding the Motion for New Trial. 
 
Aside from the Motion for New Trial, the Court is
currently scheduled to hear three other motions (a motion to amend judgment, a
motion for attorney’s fees, and a motion to tax costs) on December 22, 2023.
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A new trial is a re-examination of
an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court,
or referee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 656.)
 
“The verdict may be vacated and any other
decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further
trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party: 
 
“1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the
court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion
by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
 
[¶] 
 
“5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
“6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify
the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
 
“7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by the party making the application.
 
“When a new trial is granted, on all or part
of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is
granted and the court’s reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each
ground stated.
 
“A new trial shall not be granted upon the
ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.
 
“The order passing upon and determining the
motion must be made and entered as provided in Section 660 and if the motion is
granted must state the ground or grounds relied upon by the court, and may contain
the specification of reasons. If an order granting such motion does not contain
such specification of reasons, the court must, within 10 days after filing such
order, prepare, sign and file such specification of reasons in writing with the
clerk. The court shall not direct the attorney for a party to prepare either or
both said order and said specification of reasons. . . .”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
 
“In any civil action where after trial by
jury an order granting a new trial limited to the issue of damages would be
proper, the trial court may in its discretion:
 
“(1) If the ground for granting a new trial is
inadequate damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the
party against whom the verdict has been rendered consents to the addition of
damages in an amount the court in its independent judgment determines from the
evidence to be fair and reasonable.
 
“(2) If the ground for granting a new trial is
excessive damages, issue a conditional order granting the new trial unless the
party in whose favor the verdict has been rendered consents to the reduction of
so much thereof as the court in its independent judgment determines from the
evidence to be fair and reasonable.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (a).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendants “respectfully request a
new trial.” (Motion for New Trial, p. 13:11.) “Defendants also request a
remittitur be granted, or a conditional new trial subject to an agreement by
Plaintiff to forego the improper and unsupported award of punitive damages, and
the reduction of the treble damages award.” (Id. at p. 13:11–14.)
 
Defendants argue: (1) that there is
no basis for punitive damages because Plaintiff did not present any evidence of
Defendants’ current financials; (2) that the award was excessive because only
benefit of the bargain damages should have been trebled; (3) that the Court
erred in awarding both punitive and treble damages; (4) that Defendants were
prejudiced by the order shortening time to present evidence; and (5) that
commingling is permitted and anticipated by the Packers and Stockyards Act of
1921. (Motion for New Trial, pp. 3:22–24, 5:17–18, 7:6–7, 7:20–21, 10:2–3.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion,
arguing: (1) that punitive damages were rightfully awarded against Defendants;
(2) that the Court properly awarded treble damages; (3) that Defendants waived
any objection to the trial schedule; (4) that the Court’s trial schedule order
was proper; (5) that the Court’s trial schedule did not prejudice Defendants; and
(6) that Defendants’ commingling argument mistakes Plaintiff’s case.
(Opposition, pp. 8:21, 13:13, 14:15, 15:7, 16:11, 20:5.)
 
In their Reply, Defendants argue:
(1) that Plaintiff impliedly concedes it failed to introduce evidence demonstrating
Defendants’ current financials; (2) that the incorrect damages were trebled;
and (3) that 6.5 hours of evidentiary time was not enough for Defendants to
present their case at trial. (Reply, pp. 2:23–24, 4:26–27, 5:14–15.)
 
B. 
    Evidence
of Defendants’ Financial Condition
 
1. 
Legal
Standard
 
“(1) Is evidence of a defendant's
financial condition a prerequisite to an award of punitive damages? (2) If so,
is the burden on the plaintiff rather than on the defendant to introduce
evidence of the defendant's financial condition? We answer both questions in
the affirmative. Our prior decisions, constitutional considerations, and the
importance of appellate review indicate that an award of punitive damages
cannot be sustained on appeal unless the trial record contains meaningful
evidence of the defendant's financial condition. The absence of this evidence
thwarts effective appellate review of a claim that punitive damages are
excessive. As to the second question, we conclude that Evidence
Code section 500, the traditional allocation of burden of
proof, and fundamental fairness require the plaintiff rather than the defendant
to introduce this evidence.” (Adams v. Murakami (1991) 54 Cal.3d 105,
108–109.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendants argue that there is no
basis for punitive damages because Plaintiff did not present any evidence of
Defendants’ current financials. Specifically, Defendant argues that “[s]cant
evidence of the Defendants’ financial condition from 2020 was presented to the
jury, and no financial condition of the Defendants from 2021 was presented or
admitted to the jury at trial.” (Motion for New Trial, p. 4:26–27.) In their
Reply, Defendants go further, arguing that the “selective evidence fails to
provide a more comprehensive view of Defendants’ financial status for the years
2021, 2022, and most importantly, 2023.” (Reply, p. 3:17–19.)
 
        The Court
disagrees with Defendants. 
 
        Significant
documentary evidence as to Defendants’ financial information was admitted into
evidence at trial. (See, for example, Minute Order dated July 31, 2023, pp.
2–3, listing exhibits 17 (Memorandum of Understanding), 41 (ADD Business
Checking), 46 (consolidated P&L 2020 Cost Analysis), 47 (Manning Beef, Et
Al Financial Statements), 219 (2020 – Consolidated Financial Statements). This
evidence was sufficiently current. 
 
        This should not
be a surprise to Defendants, who even admit in their Motion for New Trial that
evidence on their financials was admitted into evidence at trial: 
 
“Here, the relevant
financial documents that had been admitted in at trial are Exhibits 46, 47,
109, and 110. Exhibit 46 provides Defendants’ 2020 consolidated profit and loss
statement that excludes costs of goods sold. (Jeon Decl. ¶3.) Exhibit 47
provides Defendants’ 2020 consolidated income statement, demonstrating a net
income of $1,694,298 (excluding RNCK’s $754,602 since it is not a defendants
[sic]). (Id.) Exhibit 109 provides a profit and loss statement on October 7,
2019, demonstrating a net income of $5,976.61, and Exhibit 110 provides a
profit of loss statement from October 7, 2019, through January 13, 2020,
showing a net income of negative $311,978.18. (Id.)”  (Motion for New Trial, p. 4:18–25.)
 
        The evidence
submitted showed that Defendants had 
significant earnings and profits, as well as a net worth in
the eight-figure range. 
 
        Furthermore,
the jury heard both parties’ expert witnesses. Peter Wrobel (a certified public
accountant who was the Managing Director of The Berkeley Research Group) testified
on behalf of Plaintiff, and Steven Hastings (a certified public accountant who
consults for the Department of Justice Federal Tax Division) testified on
behalf of Defendants. These expert witnesses testified to Defendants’ financial
conditions. 
 
“Our Supreme Court has not prescribed a rigid standard for
measuring a defendant's ability to pay. Accordingly, there is no one particular
type of financial evidence a plaintiff must obtain or introduce to satisfy its
burden of demonstrating the defendant's financial condition. Evidence of the
defendant's net worth is the most commonly used, but that metric is too
susceptible to manipulation to be the sole standard for measuring a defendant's
ability to pay. Yet the ‘net’ concept of the net worth metric remains critical.
In most cases, evidence of earnings or profit alone are not sufficient without
examining the liabilities side of the balance sheet. Evidence of a defendant's
income, standing alone, is not meaningful evidence. Normally, evidence of
liabilities should accompany evidence of assets, and evidence of expenses
should accompany evidence of income. Without evidence of the actual total
financial status of the defendants, it is impossible to say that any specific
award of punitive damage is appropriate. Thus, there should be some evidence of
the defendant's actual wealth, but the precise character of that evidence may
vary with the facts of each case. The evidence should reflect the named defendant's financial
condition at the time of trial.” (Soto v. BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc. (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 165, 194–195, cleaned up.) 
 
        Sufficient and
appropriate evidence — including Defendants’ net worth, evidence of profits,
and evidence of liabilities — was submitted at trial. Plaintiff met its burden
in introducing this evidence. 
 
The Court has reviewed the trial
transcripts. Defendants made no discernable effort at trial to argue that their
financial condition in 2021, 2022, or “most importantly” in  2023 [see Defendants’ Reply, p. 3:19], was any
different from their financial condition in 2018, 2019, and 2020. To the extent
that additional, more up-to-date evidence would have shown that Defendants’
financial condition at trial was worse than it was just a few years previously,
it was Defendants’ burden to submit that evidence. (See, e.g., Green v.
Laibco, LLC (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 441 [finding that evidence submitted by
a plaintiff of defendant’s financial condition was sufficient and that any
deficiency was due to defendant’s own stonewalling].) 
 
        Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 657, upon weighing the evidence in the entire record,
including the reasonable inferences therefrom, the Court is not convinced that
the Jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or decision due to
insufficiency of the evidence. 
 
C. 
    Prejudice
and/or Irregularity in the Proceeding
 
Defendants argue that they “were
seriously limited in their ability to rebut evidence, and develop [a] more
complete picture of evidence” because the Court “restricted the parties to 6.5
hours per side to present evidence.” (Motion for New Trial, p. 7:22–25.) According
to Defendants, “[s]ix and a half hours is an objectively unreasonabl[e] amount
of time in which to expect defendants to defend a case that would become a $12
million judgment.” (Id. at pp. 7:26, 8:1.)
 
Defendant points to the following
evidence that it wanted to bring up at trial:
 
·       evidence regarding Defendant DiMaria’s
concern that Plaintiff was using him for an EB-5 investor scheme;
 
·       evidence of the highly-regulated nature of
the cattle industry;
 
·       evidence that Defendant DiMaria was required
to be licensed and bonded;
 
·       evidence of the practice of commingling;
 
·       evidence that Defendant DiMaria does not have
a gun;
 
·       evidence of a monthly payment agreement
agreed to in 2020 by and between Plaintiff and Defendants relating to the joint
venture agreement;
 
·       evidence of the lack of sales of ground beef
and the joint venture meat during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as how
COVID-19 frustrated and made performance under the joint venture agreement
nearly impossible; and
 
·       impeachment of Xiulian “Sue” Liu’s testimony
about Defendants’ lack of transparency in disclosing transactions and documents
relating to the joint venture.
 
(Motion for New Trial, pp. 8:3–24, 9:1–24.)
 
        The Court
disagrees with Defendants. 
 
        Nearly all of
the proposed evidence listed above would have been irrelevant to the issues in
this case: (1) whether Defendants breached their contracts with Plaintiff; (2)
whether Defendants defrauded Plaintiff; (3) whether Defendants breached their
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff; (4) whether Defendants converted Plaintiff’s
property; and (5) whether Defendants violated Penal Code section 496. 
 
        Even for the
items that listed above that bear some relevance to the issues in this matter,
there is no reason why Defendants could not have addressed them in the time
allotted. Defendants blame Plaintiff, claiming that “Plaintiff’s choice of
narrative and presentation of the case in chief burned up time that Defendants
would have been able to present additional evidence needed for a full and fair
defense.” (Motion for New Trial, p. 8:1–3.) But Defendants did not need to
respond to everything put forward by Plaintiff — they only needed to rebut
pertinent arguments and make their case for why they were not liable. If
Plaintiff “burned up time” presenting irrelevant matters in its case-in-chief, this
in no way hurt Defendants.  In fact,
during the Final Status Conferences, the Court indicated that it normally would
not sustain an objection of “asked and answered” because if one side wanted to
waste its time asking the same question over and over again, it would only hurt
that party. Nonetheless, Defense Counsel wasted significant time during trial,
focusing on rebutting every single part of Plaintiff’s case instead of making
Defendants’ case. 
 
This case was not particularly
complicated. Defendants’ argument above makes clear that there was no
significant, case-changing evidence that they would have presented had the
Court given them more time to make their case It is also worth noting that in
their Case Management Statements presented for the Case Management Conference held
on Feb. 23, 2022, Defendants requested an even shorter trial than did Plaintiff.
It was both objectively reasonable and well within the discretion of the Court
to limit both Plaintiff and Defendants to 6.5 hours of presenting evidence per
side. 
 
         The Court does not find that there was an
irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any
order of the court or abuse of discretion by which Defendants were prevented
from having a fair trial.
 
D. 
    Commingling
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“It is hereby found that a burden on
and obstruction to commerce in livestock is caused by financing arrangements
under which packers encumber, give lenders security interest in, or place liens
on, livestock purchased by packers in cash sales, or on inventories of or
receivables or proceeds from meat, meat food products, or livestock products
therefrom, when payment is not made for the livestock and that such
arrangements are contrary to the public interest. This section is intended to
remedy such burden on and obstruction to commerce in livestock and protect the
public interest.” (7 U.S. Code, § 196, subd. (a).)
 
“All livestock purchased by a packer
in cash sales, and all inventories of, or receivables or proceeds from meat,
meat food products, or livestock products derived therefrom, shall be held by
such packer in trust for the benefit of all unpaid cash sellers of such
livestock until full payment has been received by such unpaid sellers: Provided, That any packer whose average annual
purchases do not exceed $500,000 will be exempt from the provisions of this
section. Payment shall not be considered to have been made if the seller
receives a payment instrument which is dishonored: Provided, That the unpaid seller shall lose the
benefit of such trust if, in the event that a payment instrument has not been
received, within thirty days of the final date for making a payment under
section 409 [7 USCS § 228b], or within fifteen business days after the
seller has received notice that the payment instrument promptly presented for
payment has been dishonored, the seller has not preserved his trust under this
subsection. The trust shall be preserved by giving written notice to the packer
and by filing such notice with the Secretary.” (7 U.S. Code, § 196, subd. (b) [italics
in original].)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendants argue: (1) that
commingling meat is an industry standard practice; (2) that Defendants operated
their business within the expectations of the Federal Government; (3) that
Plaintiff’s references to commingling as a basis for fraud was absolutely
prejudicial to Defendants; and (4) a new trial should be ordered so that
evidence and instructions regarding industry practice and Federal Government
process can be submitted to the Jury. (Motion for New Trial, pp. 12:27–28,
13:1–9.) Defendants did not make any additional arguments on this issue in
their Reply. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
argument is a strawman that misstates Plaintiff’s position: that Defendants
commingling Plaintiff’s beef with other random beef was a breach of contract
because that made it impossible to determine when and for what amount joint
venture beef was solid. (Opposition, p. 20:6–21.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff. 
 
The question of whether federal law
and/or industry practice allow(s) commingling of beef is irrelevant to the
issues in this matter: (1) whether Defendants breached their contracts with
Plaintiff; (2) whether Defendants defrauded Plaintiff; (3) whether Defendants
breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff; (4) whether Defendants converted
Plaintiff’s property; and (5) whether Defendants violated Penal Code section
496. 
 
Even if commingling were allowed,
the Court has not been presented with any reason for: (1) why such commingling
would supersede the Parties’ contractual obligations and duties to each other;
or (2) why such commingling would allow Defendants to engage in fraud,
unlawfully convert the commingling beef, and/or violate Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (a). 
 
        Upon its own
review of the Packers and Stockyards Act, the Court does not find any reason
why commingling would have such effects. Rather, the Packer and Stockyards Act
explicitly disallows the types of deceptive practices that Defendants engaged
in. 
 
“It shall be unlawful for any packer
or swine contractor with respect to livestock, meats, meat food products, or
livestock products in unmanufactured form, or for any live poultry dealer with
respect to live poultry, to:
 
“(a) Engage in or use any unfair,
unjustly discriminatory, or deceptive practice or device; or
 
[¶] 
 
“(g) Conspire, combine, agree, or
arrange with any other person to do, or aid and abet the doing of, any act made
unlawful by subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e).”  (7 U.S. Code, § 192, subds. (a), (g).)
 
        The Court does
not find that there was any order of the Court or abuse of discretion by which
Defendants were prevented from having a fair trial, nor does the Court find
that the decision is against law or that there was an error in law occurring at
the trial and excepted to by Defendants.
 
E. 
    Treble
Damages
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Every person who shall feloniously
steal, take, carry, lead, or drive away the personal property of another, or
who shall fraudulently appropriate property which has been entrusted to him or
her, or who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent
representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or
personal property, or who causes or procures others to report falsely of his or
her wealth or mercantile character and by thus imposing upon any person,
obtains credit and thereby fraudulently gets or obtains possession of money, or
property or obtains the labor or service of another, is guilty of theft. In
determining the value of the property obtained, for the purposes of this
section, the reasonable and fair market value shall be the test, and in
determining the value of services received the contract price shall be the
test. If there be no contract price, the reasonable and going wage for the service
rendered shall govern. For the purposes of this section, any false or
fraudulent representation or pretense made shall be treated as continuing, so
as to cover any money, property or service received as a result thereof, and
the complaint, information or indictment may charge that the crime was
committed on any date during the particular period in question. The hiring of
any additional employee or employees without advising each of them of every
labor claim due and unpaid and every judgment that the employer has been unable
to meet shall be prima facie evidence of intent to defraud.” (Pen. Code, § 484,
subd. (a).)
 
“Every person who buys or receives
any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner
constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more
than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. . .
.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).)
 
“Any person who has been injured by
a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the
amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit,
and reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendants argue that the award was
excessive because only benefit of the bargain damages should have been trebled.
(Motion for New Trial, 7:4–5.) In support of their argument, Defendants point
to Justice Groban’s concurring opinion in Siry Investment v. Farkhondehpour (2022)
13 Cal.5th 333, 367–371. (Motion for New Trial, p. 6:14–28; Reply, p. 5:1–11.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing that
the Court properly trebled Plaintiff’s out-of-pocket damages ($1,784,887.00)
because Penal Code section 496 “has nothing to do with an investor being
deprived of the benefit of the bargain.” Its [sic] about theft, including
through fraud, and the receipt of stolen/converted property. . . . Trebling
$480,000 [the benefit of the bargain damages] makes no sense because this
figure was not stolen.” (Opposition, pp. 13:2–28, 14:1–14.)
 
Plaintiff has the better argument. 
 
Penal Code section 496, subdivision
(c) states that “[a]ny person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney’s fees.”
 
Thus, when the Parties argue over
what should be trebled, they are really arguing over the definition of “actual
damages” in Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c). 
 
What does “actual damages” mean?
 
“Every person who suffers detriment
from the unlawful act or omission of another, may recover from the person in
fault a compensation therefor in money, which is called damages.” (Civ. Code, §
3281.)
 
“Detriment is a loss or harm suffered
in person or property.” (Civ. Code, § 3282.)
 
“Damages may be awarded, in a
judicial proceeding, for detriment resulting after the commencement thereof, or
certain to result in the future.” (Civ. Code, § 3283.)
 
“‘Actual’ is defined as ‘existing in fact or
reality,’ as contrasted with ‘potential’ or ‘hypothetical,’ and as
distinguished from ‘apparent’ or ‘nominal.’ (Webster's Third New Internat.
Dict. (1964) p. 22.) It follows that ‘actual damages’ are those which compensate
someone for the harm from which he or she has been proven to currently suffer
or from which the evidence shows he or she is certain to suffer in the future. They are to be distinguished from those which
are nominal rather than substantial, exemplary or punitive rather than
compensatory, and speculative rather than existing or certain. In short, actual damages’ is a
term synonymous with compensatory damages. 
 
“It is in this sense – i.e., to denote
compensatory damages for actual injuries, as opposed to other types of relief –that
the term is repeatedly used in California's codified statutes. For instance,
[Civil Code] section 52, subdivision (b), distinguishes between actual damages
and exemplary damages, civil penalties, and attorney fees. The same section
states that ‘‘actual damages’ means special and general damages.’ (Id., subd. (h).) [Civil Code] Section 987,
subdivision (e), contrasts actual damages with injunctive relief, punitive
damages, and attorney fees. [Civil Code] Section 1133, subdivision (d),
distinguishes between actual damages on the one hand and attorney fees and a
penal fine on the other. Other examples in the Civil Code, the Business and
Professions Code, and other codes are too numerous to mention. While we did not
examine each of the more than 150 instances in which the term is employed, we
found no instance in which the term ‘actual damages’ was used to distinguish
between different measures of compensatory damages.”  (Saunders v. Taylor (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1538, 1543–1544, cleaned up.)
 
The Saunders analysis also
applies to the phrase “actual damages” Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c).
(See Citizens of Humanity, LLC v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1, 16–20, disapproved on other grounds [regarding standing under
Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204] by Kwikset Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2011) 51
Cal.4th 310, 337.)
 
        Here, the Jury
found $1,784,887.00 in damages for Plaintiff for its “investment and profit
share” — compensatory damages for the actual investment made in joint venture
meat, which the Jury considered and found regarding all of the causes of action
tried, including for violation of Penal Code section 496. 
 
        In addition,
the Jury found $480,000.00 in damages for Plaintiff for its “benefit of the
bargain” — compensatory damages for the profits that were reasonably
ascertainable profits from the joint venture meat, which the Jury considered
and found regarding only the causes of action for fraud and breach of fiduciary
duty. The Jury did not consider whether the compensatory damages for “benefit
of the bargain” were also actual damages for the causes of action for
conversion and violation of Penal Code section 496. Thus, only the compensatory damages for “investment and
profit share” (i.e., the investment made into the joint venture meat) can be
part of the calculation of actual damages pursuant to Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (c). 
 
        Justice Groban’s concurring
opinion in Siry Investment L.P., supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp. 367–371
is not binding authority. Further, Groban’s concurrence does not support
Defendants’ position. While there are certainly tort and breach of contract
cases that solely involve the diversion of money, this is not one of those
cases. Here, Plaintiff invested over a million dollars in joint venture meat —
physical, tangible property. The Jury found that Defendants converted
Plaintiff’s property and violated Penal Code section 496. This is clearly a
different situation from that envisioned by Justice Groban. Furthermore, it is
ironic that Defendants argue the compensatory damages for “benefit of the
bargain” — i.e., the lost profits — should solely be trebled when those
compensatory damages lack a physical manifestation and more closely resemble
the damages Justice Groban envisioned. 
 
        The Court does
not find that there was any order of the Court or abuse of discretion by which
Defendants were prevented from having a fair trial, nor does the Court find
that the decision is against law or that there was an error in law occurring at
the trial and excepted to by Defendants.
 
F.  
    Election
of Remedies
 
1.         
Legal
Standard
 
“Compensatory damages and punitive
damages are two different things with two different purposes. Compensatory
damages are awarded to compensate an injured party for his injury; punitive
damages are awarded to punish a wrongdoer and make an example of him. When both
compensatory and punitive damages are awarded, there is no double punishment.
There may be double recovery, but, unless and until the Legislature sees fit to
alter Civil Code section 3294, it is a
permissible double recovery.” (Merlo v. Standard Life & Acc. Ins. Co. (1976)
59 Cal.App.3d 5, 20.)
 
“So long as no double recovery
results, a plaintiff may recover multiple remedies in tort for damages arising
from the same conduct by the defendant. For example, in appropriate
cases, punitive damages and statutory civil penalties may be awarded in the
same action. Multiple damage awards are authorized in various areas of the law,
and they may reflect different social objectives. But where the social objectives pursued by
two categories of damages sought in one cause of action are the same, an award
for both would create a double recovery.” (Los Angeles Cnty. Metro. Transp.
Auth. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 261, 267–268 [citations omitted].)
 
“Where a statutory penalty is
imposed for a wrongful act, it does not preclude recovery of punitive damages
in a tort action where the necessary malice or oppression is shown. If the purpose of the penalty
is the same as that of punitive damages, however, the plaintiff cannot obtain a
double recovery and must elect to have judgment entered in an amount which reflects either the
statutory trebling or the compensatory and punitive damages. When a statute recognizes a
cause of action for a violation of a right, all forms of relief granted to
civil litigants generally, including appropriate punitive damages, are
available unless a contrary legislative intent appears. But when a new right, not
existing at common law, is created by statute and a statutory remedy for the
infringement thereof is provided, such remedy is exclusive of all others unless
the statutory remedy is inadequate.” (Turnbull & Turnbull v. ARA
Transp., Inc. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 811, 826–827 [citations
omitted].)
 
2.         
 The Parties’ Arguments
 
Prior to entry of judgment, the
Court received briefs from the Parties on the issue of whether Plaintiff is
entitled to both punitive and treble damages. 
 
At that time, Defendants argued:
(1) that Plaintiff must elect either breach of contract or tort damages under
the doctrine of election of remedies before trebling the damages; and (2) the
Court has discretion to decline an award of treble damages. (Defendants’ Brief
on Treble Damages, pp. 7:6–8, 8:11.)
 
At that time, Plaintiff argued: (1)
that treble damages are mandated by the plain and unambiguous words of Penal
Code section 496, subdivision (c); (2) that treble damages pursuant to Penal
Code section 496, subdivision (c) are not discretionary; and (3) that treble
damages pursuant to Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) are automatic.
(Plaintiff’s Brief on Treble Damages, pp. 1:12–13, 3:1, 3:25–26.)
 
        A few days
later, Plaintiff subsequently argued: (1) that the critical issue is the
differing conduct at issue; (2) that the Jury’s verdict involved several
different instances of misconduct; and (3) that treble damages under Penal Code
section 496, subdivision (c) serves a nonpunitive purpose. (Reply to
Defendants’ Brief on Treble Damages, pp. 1:13, 2:26, 3:26.)
 
        The Court found
in favor of Plaintiff on this issue. (Minute Order dated August 29, 2023, p.
1.)
 
Now that judgment has been entered,
Defendants argue that the Court erred in awarding both punitive and treble
damages, impermissibly granting a double recovery for identical misconduct.
(Motion for New Trial, p. 7:6–19.) Defendants did not make additional arguments
in their Reply regarding the Motion for New Trial. 
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1)
punitive damages were rightfully awarded against Defendants; (2) the Court
properly awarded treble damages; and (3) Plaintiff can recover both punitive
and treble damages. (Opposition, pp. 8:21, 13:13–14.) 
 
3.         
 The Conduct at Issue
 
Upon considering this matter
further and reviewing case law, the Court agrees with Defendants’ argument. 
 
All of the misconduct that occurred
in this case was the same, and served as the basis for all of the causes of
action. This was not a case were different conduct led the Jury to find
liability for breach of contract, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, or
violation of Penal Code section 496. Rather, all of the conduct stemmed from
Defendants stealing, mishandling, and lying about Plaintiff’s property. 
 
There is no issue of double
recovery when the award includes compensatory damages and punitive damages for
the same conduct. (Merlo, supra, 59 Cal.App.3d at p. 20.) Nor is
there an issue of double recovery for multiple damage awards where the social
objectives are different. (Los Angeles County Metro. Transp. Auth., supra,
123 Cal.App.4th at pp. 267–268.) But if the purpose of a statutory penalty is
the same as that of punitive damages, “the plaintiff cannot obtain a double
recovery and must elect to have judgment entered in an amount which reflects
either the statutory trebling or the compensatory and punitive damages.” (Turnbull
& Turnbull, supra, 219 Cal.App.3d at pp. 826–827.) “[W]hen a new
right, not existing at common law, is created by statute and a statutory remedy
for the infringement thereof is
provided, such remedy is exclusive of all others unless the statutory remedy is
inadequate.” (Ibid.)
 
        Thus, two
questions remain: (1) whether damages under Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a) and Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) are both punitive
and serve the same social objective; and (2) whether either of these rights is
a new right that did not exist at common law and is created by statute. 
 
4.         
Damages under both Civil Code §3294(a) and Penal
Code §496(c) Constitute Punitive Damages. 
 
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).)
 
“Any person who has been injured by
a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the
amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit,
and reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c).)
 
It has long been the law that: (1)
damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3294(a) are punitive damages; and (2)
additional punitive damages constitute an impermissible double recovery. (See,
for example, Marshall v. Brown (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 408, 419, requiring
election of punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294(a) or treble damages
under Labor Code section 1054; see also Turnbull & Turnbull, supra,
219 Cal.App.3d at p. 827, requiring election of remedies under Civil Code
section 3294(a) and Business and Professions Code section 17082.)
 
        This Court is
unaware of any published opinion by the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court
that definitively states whether Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) is
similarly punitive in nature. How
is the Court to ascertain whether Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) also
constitutes punitive damages?
 
“In distinguishing between
types of available remedies, the Supreme Court has utilized a dictionary
definition of ‘remedy’ as something that corrects or counteracts an evil:
corrective, counteractive, reparation. The legal means to recover a
right or to prevent or obtain redress for a wrong. In contrast, punitive damages are neither
equitable nor corrective; punitive damages serve but one purpose—to punish and
through punishment, to deter. Punitive damages by definition are not intended to compensate the
injured party, but rather to punish the tortfeasor whose wrongful action was
intentional or malicious, and to deter him and others from similar
extreme conduct.” (Estate of Young (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 62, 88,
cleaned up.)
 
“While
not dispositive, the fact that it is a treble damages provision before us is
nonetheless significant. This court and others have frequently characterized
treble damages as exemplary or punitive. . . .
Yet we have also suggested that treble damages
may serve nonpunitive purposes, as well. Similarly, other courts have
determined that particular treble damages provisions, understood in their
respective statutory contexts, possess an essentially remedial or otherwise
nonpunitive character. Therefore, the fact that we are concerned here with a treble
damages provision, though significant, is not conclusive on the
characterization question.”
(Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. v. Super. Ct. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 758,
778–779 [citations omitted].)
 
Recently,
the Supreme Court required “a fact-specific inquiry concerning the damages
provision or principle being applied” to determine whether it is punitive or
not. (Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist., supra, at p. 773.) “The statutory text and basic
objective characteristics of the award at issue provide a starting point. In
some situations, as with an assessment of punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294, subdivision (a) at one extreme and the conventional imposition of
actual compensatory damages at the other, it may easily be determined . . . .
When further inquiry is necessary, relevant considerations may include, without
limitation, whether the damages involved go beyond those necessary to fully
compensate the plaintiff; whether a damages remedy functions to offset some
otherwise applicable restriction on compensatory damages; whether the
challenged form of damages is conditioned on morally culpable conduct, beyond
mere negligence; whether there is an element of discretion by the fact finder
in the award of damages; and whether in the normal course actual damages are
likely to be difficult to establish or quantify. Whenever this inquiry occurs, the ultimate question remains
whether, by virtue of being imposed ‘primarily for the sake of example and by
way of punishing the defendant’, the damages before the court function, in
essence, as a form of punitive or exemplary damages.” (Id. [citations
omitted].)
 
“Penal Code section 496 was amended in
relevant part in 1972. Prior to the amendment, the statute did not apply to
those who sold stolen property; it applied only to those who purchased,
received, withheld or concealed it. Nor did
it include the language currently found in subdivision (c), which permits any
party injured by a violation of subdivision (a) to bring a civil action for damages.
This language was added by Statutes 1972, chapter 963, section 1, pages
1739–1740. It was the result of Senate Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.). The
bill was introduced at the request of the California Trucking Association, with
the goal of eliminating markets for stolen property, in order to substantially
reduce the incentive to hijack cargo from common carriers. (Sen. Com. on
Judiciary, Analysis of Sen. Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) as amended June 26,
1972.) Yet while an early version of the bill limited the plaintiffs who may
bring civil actions to public carriers injured by the
knowing purchase, receipt, concealment, or withholding of stolen property (Sen.
Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) as amended in Senate, May 30, 1972), the bill
was subsequently amended to expand the class of potential plaintiffs to include
‘[a]ny person who has been injured by’ the knowing purchase, receipt, concealment or withholding of stolen
property. (Sen. Amend. to Sen. Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) June 26, 1972.)
Moreover, that same amendment included the sale of knowingly
stolen property within its prohibitions, and allowed any person injured by the
sale of knowingly stolen property to bring a civil action. In other words, it
is apparent that the statute, as
enacted, broadly allows anyone injured by the sale of knowingly stolen property to bring a
civil action against the seller, in order to reduce thefts by eliminating the
market for stolen goods.” (Citizens of Humanity, LLC, supra, pp.
17–18 [italics omitted].)
 
“This history shows the Legislature
believed the deterrent effect of criminal sanctions was not enough to reduce
thefts. The means to reduce thefts, the Legislature concluded, was to dry up
the market for stolen goods by permitting treble damage recovery by ‘any
person’ injured by the knowing purchase, receipt, concealment, or withholding
of property stolen or obtained by theft.” (Bell v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041,
1047.)
 
The Court of Appeal has
recently noted that punitive damages “served the same function” as Penal Code
section 496, subdivision (c) “to the extent that the statutory treble damages
provision was intended to deter misconduct”. (Lacagnina v. Comprehend Sys.,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 955, 972.) 
 
Furthermore, the Supreme
Court’s recent discussion of Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) indicates
that it also considered these treble damages to be punitive damages — although
it pointedly “decline[d] to address the damages calculation issues that
plaintiff has raised in its briefs”. (Siry Inv., L.P., supra, 13
Cal.5th 333, 340–342, 346, fn. 6, 359–360.)
 
        After
considering the various factors discussed by the Supreme Court and the history
of the statute discussed by the Courts of Appeal, the Court finds that the
treble damages provision of Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) functions
as a form of punitive or exemplary damages. These treble damages are meant to
make an example of and punish defendants who would otherwise participate in the
market for stolen property. Rather than remediate harms suffered by plaintiffs
or purely deter would-be traffickers of stolen property, the statute punishes
them and engages in deterrence on the market for stolen property through that
punishment.  
 
        Therefore, as
damages under both Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) and Penal Code
section 496, subdivision (c) are both punitive, Plaintiff cannot recover under
both of them for Defendants’ same misconduct. 
 
5.         
Whether
Either Damages Award is a New Right
 
If either of the forms of punitive
damages is new statutory creation of rights, then absent statutory language
otherwise, the new right excludes the older one unless it is otherwise
inadequate. (Turnbull & Turnbull, supra, 219 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 826–827.) But if both rights are merely codifications of preexisting rights
at common law, then Plaintiff can have its election of the rights. (Ibid.)
 
        Punitive
damages as a general concept existed at common law. (Century Sur. Co. v.
Polisso (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 922, 957 [“The United States Supreme Court
has found that the traditional common law approach for determining punitive damage
awards is not per se unconstitutional.”].)
 
“In 1927, the Legislature
consolidated the separate common law crimes of larceny, embezzlement, and theft
by false pretense in Penal Code section 484, subdivision (a). The forerunner of
Penal Code section 496, Penal Code former section 496bb, was added by statute
in 1935, after this consolidation. Section 496(c) was enacted in 1972.” (Bell
v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1048 [citations omitted].)
 
Thus, damages under both Civil Code
section 3294 and Penal Code section 496 are merely codifications of preexisting
rights at common law, not new statutory creations of rights. This is to be
compared with statutory rights under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and
certain provisions of the Labor Code, which have mandatory provisions and do
not allow an election of remedies. (See Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Indus. (1985)
175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228; see also Brewer v. Premier Golf Props., LP (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1243, 1252–1256.)
 
        Therefore,
Plaintiff is entitled to its election of remedies between the punitive damages
award and the trebled damages. The Court believes that it previously erred as a
matter of law by allowing Plaintiff to impermissibly recover both for
Defendants’ same misconduct. 
 
        On this issue,
Defendants requested a remittitur. Considering that a new trial is appropriate
on the ground that the there was an error of law in calculating and awarding
damages, the Court will vacate judgment and issue a remittitur. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 657, 662.5.)
 
        The Court
issues a conditional order granting a new trial unless Plaintiff consents to a
reduction of damages in the amount of $3,400,000.00, which is the amount of
punitive damages impermissibly awarded to Plaintiff. The remaining judgment
would be $5,868,261.00. 
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion for
New Trial is GRANTED in part. 
 
        It is
CONDITIONALLY ORDERED that a new trial limited to the issue of damages will be
held, unless Plaintiff consents to a reduction in damages by $3,400,000.00 to a
total amount of $5,868,261.00.
 
        Plaintiff shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the issuance of this Order during which
it may consent to the reduction of damages set forth above. Failure to respond
shall be deemed a rejection of the reduction of damages, and a new trial
limited to the issue of the rejecting plaintiff’s damages shall be
automatically granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (b).) If Plaintiff
chooses to accept the reduction of damages, Plaintiff shall concurrently serve
and submit to the Court a proposed amended judgment reflecting the modified
judgment amount. (Code Civ. Proc., § 662.5, subd. (c).)
 
 