 Case Number:  23STCV15703    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Pella Window and Door Showroom of South Pasadena
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Norma Sarkin
                                    
        
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 
This matter is STAYED pending the
conclusion of arbitration.  The Court
sets a post-arbitration Status Conference for November 25, 2024 at 8:30 am.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing. 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 6, 2023,
Plaintiff Norma Sarkin filed her Complaint against Defendant Pella Window and
Door Showroom of South Pasadena on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s
purchase of windows from Defendant. 
 
On August 11, 2023,
Defendant filed its Motion to Compel Arbitration. Defendant concurrently filed
its Proposed Order. 
 
On August 29, 2023,
Defendant filed its Notice of Non-Opposition. 
 
On September 1, 2023,
Plaintiff late-filed the following items: (1) Opposition; (2) Declaration of
Norma Sarkin; and (3) Declaration of Jonathan Gonzalez. 
 
On September 5, 2023,
the Court accepted the late-filed documents and continued the hearing on the
Motion. 
 
On September 11,
2023, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists [unless it makes certain determinations].” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1281.2.)
 
“Under both federal and state law,
arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for
reasons under state law that would render any contract revocable. . . . Reasons that would render any
contract revocable under state law include fraud, duress, and
unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
231, 239, citations omitted.)
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the existence of
an arbitration agreement.¿The party opposing the petition bears the burden of
establishing a defense to the agreement's enforcement by a preponderance of the
evidence.¿In determining whether there is a duty to arbitrate, the trial court
must, at least to some extent, examine and construe the agreement.” (Tiri,
supra, at p. 239.)
 
II.       Discussion
 
A. 
    The Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant provides the Court with a contract (that contains an
arbitration provision) signed by Plaintiff on June 13, 2022. (Motion, Exh. 1,
p. 14.)
 
Plaintiff admits that she signed this contract. (Opposition, p.
2:19–22; Decl. Sarkin, ¶ 7.)
 
The entire arbitration provision is as follows:
 
ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION
WAIVER ("ARBITRATION AGREEMENT") 
 
YOU and
Pella and its subsidiaries and the Pella Branded Distributor AGREE TO
ARBITRATE DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO YOUR PELLA PRODUCTS (INCLUDES
PELLA GOODS AND PELLA SERVICES) AND WAIVE THE RIGHT TO HAVE A COURT OR JURY
DECIDE DISPUTES. YOU WAIVE ALL RIGHTS TO PROCEED AS A MEMBER OR REPRESENTATIVE
OF A CLASS ACTION, INCLUDING CLASS ARBITRATION, REGARDING DISPUTES ARISING OUT
OF OR RELATING TO YOUR PELLA PRODUCTS. You may opt out of this Arbitration
Agreement by providing notice to Pella no later than ninety (90) calendar days
from the date You purchased or otherwise took ownership of Your Pella Goods. To
opt out, You must send notice by e-mail to pellawebsupport@pella.com, with the
subject line: “Arbitration Opt Out” or by calling (877) 473-5527. Opting out of
the Arbitration Agreement will not affect the coverage provided by any
applicable limited warranty pertaining to Your Pella Products. For complete
information, including the full terms and conditions of this Arbitration
Agreement, which are incorporated herein by reference, please visit
www.pella.com/arbitration or e-mail to pellawebsupport@pella.com, with the
subject line: “Arbitration Details” or call (877) 473-5527. D'ARBITRAGE ET
RENONCIATION AU RECOURS COLLECTIF ("convention d'arbitrage") EN
FRANÇAIS SEE PELLA.COM/ARBITRATION. DE ARBITRAJE Y RENUNCIA COLECTIVA
("acuerdo de arbitraje") EN ESPAÑOL VER PELLA.COM/ARBITRATION.
 
(Motion,
Exh. 1, p. 10.)
 
B. 
    The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to compel arbitration of this matter,
arguing: (1) that Plaintiff’s claims are subject to arbitration; and (2) that
the Parties met and conferred prior to this Motion. (Motion, pp. 3:23, 5:17,
7:2–3.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that the arbitration
provision does not apply because Plaintiff rejected the non-conforming goods
and never took ownership of the non-conforming goods; and (2) that grounds
(specifically, intentional and/or negligent misrepresentation) exist for
rescission of the contract, and thus the Court cannot enforce the arbitration
provision pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2. (Opposition, pp.
3:11–13, 5:15–17, 6:13.)
 
        In its Reply, Defendant argues: (1) that
the arbitration provision is enforceable because Plaintiff did not opt out of
it within 90 days of purchase; and (2) that a cause of action for fraud does
not mean the matter cannot be arbitrated because Plaintiff has not provided
evidence of fraudulent inducement to enter into the arbitration provision.
(Reply, pp. 2:11–12, 4:3–5.)
 
        The Court notes that although Defendant
appears to have made an arbitrability argument in a letter sent to Plaintiff’s
Counsel, no such argument is made in the Motion or the Reply. (Motion, Exh. 2.)
 
C. 
    Rescission of the Contract
 
The Court
considers rescission of the contract prior to considering enforceability of the
contract, as rescission of the contract would moot the issue of its
enforceability. 
 
Rescission of the
contract on the basis of fraud is a valid defense to an arbitration agreement.
(Tiri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 239.)
 
However, as Defendant
argues correctly, the allegations of intentional and/or negligent
misrepresentation in both the Complaint and the Opposition regard the products
Plaintiff purchased from Defendant and thus the contract as a whole, not the
arbitration provision within the contract. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19–22, 29–32;
Opposition, pp. 6:14–18, 6:27, 7:1–4, 16–24.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not
provide any evidence of fraud regarding the making of the arbitration provision
in either the Declaration of Norma Sarkin or the Declaration of Jonathan
Gonzalez. 
 
“The scope of arbitration is,
of course, a matter of agreement between the parties, and if they choose to
limit that scope so as to exclude questions of fraud in the inducement of the
contract that choice must be respected. In this state, as under federal law,
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable issues are to be resolved in favor of
arbitration. Therefore, in the absence of
indication of contrary intent, and where the arbitration clause is reasonably
susceptible of such an interpretation, claims of fraud in the inducement of the
contract (as distinguished from claims of fraud directed to the arbitration
clause itself) will be deemed subject to arbitration.” (Ericksen, Arbuthnot,
McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312,
323, citations omitted.)
 
“We construe section 1281.2, subdivision (b),
to mean that the petition to compel arbitration is not to be granted when there
are grounds for rescinding the agreement. Fraud is one of the grounds on which
a contract can be rescinded. (Civ. Code, § 1689, subd. (b)(1).) In order to defeat a petition
to compel arbitration, the parties opposing a petition to compel must show that
the asserted fraud claim goes specifically to the making of the agreement to
arbitrate, rather than to the making of the contract in general.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Med. Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 973 [cleaned up].)
 
Here, there are
no allegations or evidence of fraud that go specifically to the making of the
agreement to arbitrate. Thus, there is no basis here for rescinding the
arbitration provision. 
 
D.      Enforceability
of the Arbitration Provision
 
Plaintiff argues
that the arbitration provision does not apply because Plaintiff rejected the
non-conforming goods and never took ownership of the non-conforming goods.
(Opposition, p. 3.) According to Plaintiff, “the provision only comes into effect
if Plaintiff took ownership over the non-conforming goods.” (Id. at p.
4:25–26.)
 
        Plaintiff’s
argument overlooks the explicit language of the arbitration provision, which
states in relevant part: “You . . . agree to arbitrate disputes arising out of
or relating to your Pella Products . . . . You may opt out of this Arbitration
Agreement by providing notice to Pella no later than ninety (90) calendar days
from the date you purchased or otherwise took ownership of your Pella Goods.”
(Motion, Exh. 1, p. 10, bold and capitalization omitted.)
 
        The
provision applies to “disputes arising out of or relating to your [i.e.,
Plaintiff’s] Pella Products”. Plaintiff purchased the Pella Products, and
Plaintiff does not dispute that she purchased the goods. (Decl. Sarkin, ¶ 7
[“Based on these representations, I decided to purchase the windows . . . and I
entered a contract for purchase of 16 windows . . . .”].) As there is a dispute
arising out of or relating to the products Plaintiff purchased, the arbitration
provision applies. It is immaterial that Plaintiff rejected the goods after
purchase or refused to take ownership of them after purchase. 
 
        Plaintiff’s
citation to a 100-year-old appellate case regarding the return of non-conforming
goods is simply irrelevant to the issue of arbitration.  (See Opposition, p. 4:11-13.)
 
        Plaintiff
briefly argues that “even if the arbitration provision was triggered when
Plaintiff tendered payment, Plaintiff is still well within the timeframe
allowed to opt [out] of the arbitration provision, as Plaintiff never took
ownership of the non-conforming goods, and therefore, the 90-day period allowed
to opt [out] of the arbitration agreement has not even commenced.” (Opposition,
p. 5:8–13.)
 
        This
argument is incorrect. The 90-day period to opt out runs “from the date You
purchased or otherwise took ownership of Your Pella Goods.” (Motion, Exh. 1, p.
10.) The 90-day period to opt out began from the date of purchase, and there is
no dispute that the date of purchase was June 13, 2022. The 90-day period
has long come and gone, and there is no allegation or evidence that Plaintiff
opted out during that period and in the manner allowed by the arbitration
provision. 
 
        Plaintiff does not argue that the arbitration
provision is either procedurally or substantively unconscionable.  Therefore, the Court need not analyze these
issues.
 
                
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 
This matter is STAYED pending the
conclusion of arbitration.  The Court
sets a post-arbitration Status Conference for November 25, 2024 at 8:30 am.  The parties are to file a Joint Status
Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference hearing. 
 