 Case Number:  23STCV00478    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MISTY HAMMER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MORGAN STANLEY SMITH BARNEY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
  company; VIKTOR ARMAND HAMMER, an individual; and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
MORGAN STANLEY SMITH BARNEY, LLC,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
MISTY HAMMER, an individual; MARK ALFANO, in his representative
  capacity as personal representative of THE ESTATE OF MICHAEL A. HAMMER;
  VIKTOR HAMMER and ARMAND HAMMER, in their representative capacities as
  trustees of the MICHAEL A. HAMMER TRUST UDT AS OF MAY 22, 2013; and DOES 11
  through 25, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV00478
 Hearing Date:   11/1/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC’s Motion for Protective Order.



 
Background
Pleadings
On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Misty Hammer
(Misty) sued Defendant/Cross-Complainant Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC
(Morgan Stanley), Defendant Viktor Armand Hammer, and Does 1 through 10
pursuant to a Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract and (2)
Tortious Interference with Contract.
(Because the parties share a last name, the Court refers to the parties
by their first name. No disrespect is intended.)
The claims arise from allegations that Michael Hammer (Michael) and/or
his Trust maintained multiple securities accounts (Accounts) with Morgan Stanley.
The Complaint alleges that after Michael died on November 30, 2022, Morgan
Stanley refused to transfer and/or change beneficiaries on the
Accounts—containing more than $2 million in securities and cash—to Stanley’s
widow, Misty, who had requested the transfer. The Complaint also alleges that
Morgan Stanley’s financial advisor, Viktor Hammer (Viktor), began unlawfully
trying to seize control of the Accounts—including assets of two foundations,
Armand Hammer Foundation, Inc., (AHF) and Hammer International Foundation, Inc.
(HIF)—with Morgan Stanley refusing to honor Misty Hammer’s requests at Viktor’s
insistence.
On February 21, 2023, Morgan
Stanley filed a Cross-Complaint in Interpleader pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 386. The Cross-Complaint seeks an order (1) declaring the
party entitled to receive the accounts at issue and the holdings therein, (2)
discharging Morgan Stanley from liability to Plaintiff and Cross Defendants
with respect to the investment accounts at issue, and (3) awarding Morgan
Stanley its attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in this action. 
The Cross-Complaint characterizes
the dispute as one involving the Accounts and the potential interests held
therein by Misty, Cross Defendant Mark Alfano (in his representative capacity
as personal representative of the Estate of Michael Hammer), and/or Viktor
Hammer and Armand Hammer (in their representative capacities as trustees of the
Michael A. Hammer Trust UDT as of May 22, 2023 (the Michael Hammer Trust)).
Motion Before the Court
On September 28, 2023, Morgan
Stanley made a motion for protective order in connection with Request for
Production (RPDs), Set One, served on Morgan Stanley by Plaintiff Misty Hammer
in late June 2023. The motion was set for hearing on November 1, 2023.
That same day, Misty filed a motion
to compel Morgan Stanley to produce documents in relation to RPDs, Set One.
That motion was set for hearing on November 27, 2023.
On October 19, 2023, Misty opposed
the motion for protective order.
On October 25, 2023, Morgan Stanley
replied to the opposition.
The motion for protective order is
now before the Court.
 
Motion for Protective Order

Legal Standard
A motion for a protective order is
used to ask the court to modify, prohibit, or limit discovery procedures to
protect a party from an excessive or unnecessary burden, expense, or intrusion.
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.020, subd. (a) [burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of the discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence], 2019.030, subds. (a)(1)-(2), (b)
[discovery obtainable from other source, cumulative or duplicative, or discovery
method is unduly burdensome or expensive]; see also Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1987.1,
subd. (a) [same or similar standards for subpoenas], 2025.420 [same or similar
standards for depositions], 2025.460, subd. (a) [same or similar standards for
depositions], 2025.470 [same or similar standards for depositions], 2030.090
[same or similar standards for interrogatories], 2031.060 [same or similar
standards for demands to produce], 2032.510, subds. (d), (e) [same or similar
standards for medical examinations], 2033.080 [same or similar standards for
admission requests], 2034.250 [same or similar standards for expert-witness
discovery], 2034.420 [same or similar standards for expert-witness discovery];
see, e.g., Liberty Mut. Ins. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1282, 1285 [defendant sought protective order to prohibit apex deposition on
grounds of annoyance and embarrassment]; Stony Brook I Homeowners Ass’n v.
Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 691, 693 [defendant made motion for
protective order to prevent plaintiff’s inquiry into how much defense work
defense’s expert had performed in personal-injury actions].)
Good cause and promptness in moving
for a protective order must normally be shown to prevail on a motion for
protective order. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.420, subds. (a), (b) [oral
deposition] 2030.290, subds. (a), (b) [interrogatories], 2031.060, subds. (a), (b)
[demands to produce], 2033.080, subds. (a), (b) [admission requests], 2034.250,
subds. (a), (b) [expert-witness discovery].)
Order Granting Protective Order:
GRANTED.
RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-4 request:
“1. [Morgan Stanley’s] entire file
regarding the account maintained by Michael Hammer or any Trust maintained by
Michael Hammer ending in 563.350.”
“2. [Morgan Stanley’s] entire file
regarding the account maintained by Michael Hammer or any Trust maintained by
Michael Hammer ending in 323.044.”
“3. All communications, of any
kind, between [Morgan Stanley], or any employee, contractor, or representative
of [Morgan Stanley] and Viktor Hammer regarding any account maintained by
Michael Hammer or any Trust maintained by Michael Hammer from January 1, 2022
to present, for account ending in 563.350.”
“4. All communications, of any
kind, between [Morgan Stanley], or any employee, contractor, or representative
of [Morgan Stanley] and Viktor Hammer regarding any account maintained by
Michael Hammer or any Trust maintained by Michael Hammer from January 1, 2022
to present, for account ending in 323.044.”
(Mot., Row Decl., Ex. A [563.350
and 323.044 accounts are referred to here as Accounts].)
The dispute between the parties is whether
good cause supports a protective order in this action that prevents Morgan
Stanley from disclosing the above documents unless there is a protective order
in place that prohibits the dissemination of financial documents to persons
unconnected with this litigation.
Morgan Stanley appears to concede
that the documents sought by Misty’s RPDs are relevant to this action. Morgan
Stanley instead argues that it has made this motion promptly and that good
cause exists for the issuance of a protective order. Morgan Stanley elaborates
on good cause by explaining that the production of the above documents would
result in dissemination of documents implicating the privacy rights of (1) the
parties in this action who are disputing who is properly entitled to the assets
in the Accounts and (2) Morgan Stanley and its employee Viktor Hammer. Morgan
Stanley argues that the requested documents include account balances, financial
transactions, and suitability information (e.g., net worth, income, and
investment objections), which implicate the right to privacy of any putative accountholder:
Misty (as alleged beneficiary of the Accounts); Mark Alfano (estate
representative); and Viktor and Armand (trustees of the Michael Hammer Trust). 
Such information, argues Morgan
Stanley, clearly implicates the accountholder’s financial right to privacy
because it involves private financial matters (account information), a concern
that is magnified by the media attention on this dispute. Moreover, Morgan
Stanley argues that the above production requests have been clarified by
Plaintiff to involve documents relating to the income derived by Morgan Stanley
and Viktor Hammer in relation to the Accounts, thus implicating their right to
privacy in “income records.” Morgan Stanley provides a proposed protective
order and argues that Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by the protective order,
which will allow Plaintiff’s discovery of the above documents to move forward,
subject to a prohibition on dissemination of the produced documents to parties
not involved with this litigation. (Mot., pp. 8, 10-13.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Misty
Hammer argues that the inspection demands are timely and that Stanley Morgan
has, under constantly changing reasons, evaded its obligation to provide
responsive documents. For example, Misty argues that only recently did Morgan
Stanley raise objections to production based on their own and Viktor’s privacy
rights, at the last hour, and that Morgan Stanley is improperly imposing a
search protocol condition into production. Misty also argues that the only
right to privacy at issue in the production requests was Michael Hammer’s right
to privacy, which expired when he died, and that any other right to privacy is
overcome by the relevancy of RPDs, Set One, to a fair determination of the
instant action. Misty also argues that she has or will suffer prejudice as a
result of non-production because she is entitled to this discovery to determine
her rights to the Accounts’ assets and because Morgan Stanley is refusing to
produce documents responsive to Viktor’s communications with Morgan Stanley,
which are relevant to this action. (Opp’n, pp. 3-9.)
In reply, Morgan Stanley repeats
its intent to comply with discovery subject to a protective order preventing
dissemination of production of financial information to parties not involved in
this litigation. Morgan Stanley notes a concern in Misty’s refusal to agree to
a protective order, which heightens a concern in Morgan Stanley related to
whether Misty will disseminate confidential documents in the public sphere to
gain a litigation advantage. Morgan Stanley also repeats its argument that it
is protecting the financial privacy rights of the accountholders at issue in
this case, i.e., that Michael Hammer’s privacy rights do not serve as the
grounds for this motion. Last, Morgan Stanley argues that Plaintiff will not
suffer prejudice because she will receive the documents to which she is
entitled, subject to a prohibition on distribution and use of the documents
outside of this litigation. (Reply, pp. 2-7.)
The Court finds in favor of Morgan
Stanley.
As explained by the court of
appeal: “The right to privacy under article I, section 1 of the California
Constitution ‘extends to one's confidential financial affairs ….’ [Citation.] This
right embraces confidential financial information in ‘whatever form it takes,
whether that form be tax returns, checks, statements, or other account
information.’ [Citation.] … [For example,] before a bank discloses customer
financial information in civil discovery proceedings, it ‘must take reasonable
steps to notify its customer of the pendency and nature of the proceedings and
to afford the customer a fair opportunity to assert his interests by objecting
to disclosure, by seeking an appropriate protective order, or by instituting
other legal proceedings to limit the scope or nature of the matters sought to
be discovered.’ [Citations.] A financial institution, ‘as custodian of …
relevant documents,’ has ‘standing to assert the privacy interests of its
customers in the identifying information they’ provide. [Citations.]” (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 503 (Overstock.com).)
Here, a protective order makes
sense. A protective order would, as argued by Morgan Stanley, protect the
dissemination of confidential financial information related to the persons that
may be entitled to a portion of the Accounts’ assets: Misty (as beneficiary),
the estate representative of Michael Hammer’s estate, or the trustees of
Michael Hammer’s Trust. Indeed, the opposition alludes to the good cause in
support of granting of this motion. The opposition argues that production
related to RPDs, Set One, would allow Misty to determine whether Michael named
Misty as the beneficiary on the Accounts, whether Morgan Stanley failed to
follow and honor Michael’s instructions for the Accounts, and whether Morgan
Stanley failed to comply with Michael’s instructions when it refused to
transfer the Accounts to Misty or to name Misty as the Accounts’ beneficiary. (Opp’n,
p. 8.) If those documents show instead that the Michael Hammer Trust is the
beneficiary of the Accounts, then production of the requested documents would
necessarily implicate the Trust’s right to privacy in its financial affairs. (See
In re Ins. Installment Fee Cases (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1428
[information privacy in personal financial affairs]; see also Overstock.com,
supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 503 [in context of motion to seal, confidentiality
exists in varied forms, e.g., tax returns, checks, statements, or other account
information]; Cassidy v. California Bd. of Accountancy (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 620, 625 [in context of motion to seal, right to privacy and
confidentiality implicated by tax or financial information].)
The Court is also satisfied with
the argument that Morgan Stanley’s or Viktor’s right to privacy are affected insofar
as Misty expects that the production for RPDs, Set One, will include records
showing income received by Morgan Stanley and Viktor. (See Mot., Row Decl., Ex.
G, p. 5 [RPS, Set One, Nos. 3-4 involve “(11) [t]he revenue Viktor Hammer
derived from maintaining and handling Michael Hammer’s AHF and HIF accounts
(which would terminate upon transfer of such accounts from Morgan Stanley to
Misty or otherwise)” and “(12) [t]he revenue Morgan Stanley derived from
maintaining and handling Michael Hammer’s AHF and HIF accounts (which would
terminate upon transfer of such accounts from Morgan Stanley to Misty or
otherwise)”].) The Court notes that this information is clearly relevant; for
example, it is relevant to Misty’s entitlement to the Accounts’ assets and to
damages suffered by Misty if Defendants did not properly turn over the Accounts
to her following Michael Hammer’s death. However, such relevance does not mean
that no right to privacy exists in financial information, which can take
varying forms (here, earnings). (Overstock.com, supra, 231
Cal.App.4th at p. 503.)
Moreover, though the Court
recognizes and agrees that “[p]rivacy concerns are not absolute” and “must be
balanced against other important interests” (Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 37; see Valley Bank of Nev. v.
Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656-657), the Court also determines
that the proposed protective order in this action is a reasonable restriction
on discovery. The protective order will not prevent the disclosure of documents
responsive to RPDs, Set One, but rather, prevent dissemination of that
information to persons not involved in this litigation. (See Mot., Ex. 1,
Proposed Protective Order; see Mot., Ex. 2, Redline of Proposed Protective
Order [showing differences between proposed protective order and Superior Court’s
Model Protective Order].) The Court finds that this is a more than reasonable
compromise given the right to privacy issues implicated in the Complaint and
the Cross-Complaint in Interpleader. How the matters will be dealt with at
trial is not addressed by this order, which relates to discovery only. 
Last, the Court notes that the
imposition of a protective order here does not implicate any objectionable
prejudice to Misty Hammer. The protective order does not restrict Misty’s
ability to obtain production as to the Account, but rather, prohibits the dissemination
of that production to persons not involved in this litigation. (See Mot., Exs.
1-2.) The only prejudice arising from that restriction is an inability to bring
financial documents into the public sphere, which amounts to insufficient
prejudice for the purposes of undercutting the good cause favoring granting this
motion.
The Court thus GRANTS Morgan
Stanley’s motion.
Sanctions: DENIED.
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).)
Given that this motion was granted,
the request for sanctions in Misty’s opposition is DENIED. 
Conclusion
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney LLC’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED.
Defendant Viktor Hammer’s Joinder
is thus also GRANTED.
The Court will inquire whether
there are any specific objections to the form of the proposed protective order
attached as Exhibit 1 to Defendant/Cross-Complainant Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney LLC’s motion at the hearing. If none are expressed, the Court will
independently review it for signature.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Misty
Hammer’s request for sanctions is DENIED.