 Case Number:  24SMCV99542    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Adeyeye v. FCA
US LLC
CASE NO.:                24SMCV99542
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   1/2/25
 
Legal
Standard
             
Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5 provides that a trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or
both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. “Actions or tactics”
include almost any action in a litigation, except for sanctions which are
governed by separate statutes. (See e.g. CCP §§ 128.5(e),
425.16(c).)  
 
“Frivolous” means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party. “Because the Legislature intended that the conditions for sanctions
under the current version of section 128.5 mirror section 128.7, [the California
Court of Appeal has held] that the objective standard used to evaluate section
128.7 sanctions motions applies to section 128.5.” (San Diegans for Open
Government v. City of San Diego (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1306, 1318.)
“Although the objective standard of proof is easier to satisfy, the Legislature
intended to ‘retain the extremely high proof required for such awards’ with its
applicability lying with ‘truly egregious behaviors.’ ” (Id. at
1318-19.) An objectively reasonable attorney standard applies to this
determination. (Id. at 1319.) “Whether a claim is meritless or
for the sole purpose of harassment must be evaluated by examining whether the
factual allegations of the claim had evidentiary support.” (Ibid.)
The “ultimate burden of providing sanctionable conduct remains with the moving
party.” (Id. at 1320.) The moving party must provide evidence
sufficient to establish a prima facie case that the action is meritless or for
the sole purpose of harassment. (Id. at 1319-1320.) If the court
finds that this evidence has satisfied the moving party’s burden, then the
burden shifts to the opposing party to refute the prima facie case. (Id.
at 1320.)  
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Ayokanmi Adeyeye moves
for monetary sanctions against Defendant FCA
US LLC (“FCA”) and its counsel of record, Clark Hill LLP
(“Clark Hill”), jointly and severally in the amount of $10,000.00. Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant and counsel’s conduct in this action was in bad faith
and solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.
 
Plaintiff cites a series of email
correspondence between counsel. (Weiss Decl., Ex. A- W.) Plaintiff demonstrates
that Defendant’s counsel failed to return certain phone calls and emails, would
not immediately identify a new handling attorney when the prior attorney left
the firm, and gave arguably curt responsive emails. With the presented
evidence, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that Defendant and counsel’s conduct
in this action was in bad faith and solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.
The Court does not view this conduct “frivolous” or with “intent to delay” as
defined by section 128.5. Plaintiff does not show how these acts were intended
to cause delays to the prosecution of this action. In fact, Plaintiff has
failed to show any such delays even occurred as contended. Plaintiff also cites
no loss of evidence or testimony from any non-existent delays. To the contrary,
this lemon law action is still less than a year old. There have been no
continuances of trial caused by this conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.