 Case Number:  24STCP00268    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  85 
In the Matter of A.D. v. CA
Office of the Inspector General, 24STCP00268

Tentative decision on motion to
proceed as Petitioner 1 and for protective order: granted in part



 
Fictitiously named Petitioner 1 moves to continue in this
action as Petitioner 1 and for a protective order limiting the disclosure of
information that could publicly associate him with his sealed juvenile
conviction.
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
opposition (no reply was filed), and renders the following tentative decision.
 
A. Statement of the Case
1. Petition
Petitioner 1 filed the Petition against Respondent CA Office
of the Inspector General (“Inspector General”) for a writ of mandate and
declaratory relief on January 26, 2024.  The
operative pleading is the First Amended Petition (“FAP”) filed on February 7,
2024.  The FAP alleges in pertinent part
as follows.
Respondent Inspector General improperly voided Petitioner
1’s appointment as a civil service attorney based on his failure to disclose a
sealed record of a juvenile conviction. 
This practice contravenes Welfare and Institutions (“W&I”) Code
section 781, Government Code section 12952, Labor Code section 432.7, and
Article 1, section 1 of the California Constitution.  
On October 9, 2024, the Inspector General extended Petitioner
1 an offer of employment contingent on a criminal background check.  Pet., ¶15.  Petitioner 1 completed his background check
paperwork on October 10, 2023.  Pet.,
¶16.  The Inspector General provided
Petitioner 1 with a Personal History Form (“PHF”) that asked for him to
identify persons he knew who were affiliated with, or currently or formerly
incarcerated by, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. Pet.,
¶¶ 16-18.  In a “PRIVACY STATEMENT”
accompanying these prompts, the PHF advised Petitioner: “You do not need to
list those offenses that have been sealed, expunged, or destroyed under Penal
Code Sections 851.7, 851.8, 1203.45...or Welfare and Institutions Code
Section 781.” Pet., ¶18.
Petitioner 1 completed the form truthfully and in good
faith.  Pet., ¶17.  He identified two individuals responsive to
the prompt. Pet., ¶17.  He did not
disclose his prior juvenile commitment, believing he had no duty to do so based
on W&I Code section 781 and equivalent protections. See Pet., ¶22. 
            On
October 26, 2023, the Inspector General advised Petitioner 1 that his
background check was complete and extended him an offer of employment.  Pet., ¶19. On October 30, 2023, he received
written confirmation of his new appointment.  Pet., ¶20.
            On
November 17, 2023, the Inspector General gave Petitioner notice that it intended
to void his appointment because he “may have provided dishonest, misleading, or
incomplete responses” on his PHF. Pet., ¶21. The Inspector General alleged that
on an unspecified date following completion of Petitioner 1’s background
investigation, it became aware of several newspaper articles which suggested
that Petitioner 1 had been the subject of a juvenile adjudication that may have
resulted in a commitment to the California Youth Authority.  Pet., ¶21.
Petitioner 1 responded in writing that he had responded
fully and truthfully to the extent required, but his conviction was sealed and
the PHF and relevant statutes expressly exempted it from disclosure.  Pet., ¶22.
On November 22, 2023, Respondent voided Petitioner 1’s
appointment.  Pet., ¶23. 
Petitioner 1 seeks a writ of mandate directing the Inspector
General to reinstate him to his civil service position, a declaration that its practice
violated the relevant laws, and damages incidental to mandamus.
 
2. Course of Proceedings
Petitioner 1 filed the Petition on January 26, 2024.
On the same date, Petitioner 1 applied ex parte for an order
permitting him to file all documents under seal and for a protective order
limiting the disclosure of information that could publicly associate him with
his sealed juvenile conviction. The court denied the application but ordered as
follows: 
 
“Petitioner is directed
to file in open court, a redacted first amended petition, naming petitioner as
‘Petitioner 1’. Petitioner may proceed as ‘Petitioner 1’ for now. The
identification of the juvenile case and any reference to its contents in the
amended petition may be redacted. Petitioner may make a noticed motion to
continue as ‘Petitioner 1’ and for a protective order, after respondent has
been served.”
 
            On
February 7, 2024, Petitioner 1 filed the FAP. On March 29, 2024, Respondent Inspector
General answered.
            
B. Applicable Law
1. Proceeding
by Fictitious Name
“‘[A]
party may preserve his or her anonymity in judicial proceedings in special
circumstances when the party’s need for anonymity outweighs prejudice to the
opposing party and the public’s interest in knowing the party’s
identity.’”  Doe v. Lincoln Unified School Dist., (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 758, 767 (quoting Does I thru XXIII v. Advanced Textile
Corp., (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068). A court may permit plaintiffs
to use pseudonyms in three situations: “(1) when identification creates a risk
of retaliatory physical or mental harm [Citation]; (2) when anonymity is
necessary ‘to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive and highly personal
nature’ [Citation]; and (3) when the anonymous party is ‘compelled to admit
[his or her] intention to engage in illegal conduct, thereby risking criminal
prosecution.’ “ Does I thru XXIII v. Advanced Textile Corp., supra, 214
F.3d at 1068. Where the request for anonymity is based on the purported need
“to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive and highly personal nature,” the
proper test is whether “the party’s need for anonymity outweighs prejudice to
the opposing party and the public’s interest in knowing the party’s identity.” Ibid;
Doe v. Lincoln Unified School District, supra, (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 758, 767.) “Outside of cases where anonymity is expressly permitted
by statute, litigating by pseudonym should occur ‘only in the rarest of
circumstances.’” Department of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court
of Santa Clara County, (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105, 111-12.
 
2. Sealing
Pursuant to CRC 2.550 the court may seal a
record “only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)
 
C. Analysis
Petitioner 1 seeks to continue in
this proceeding as Petitioner 1 and also seeks a protective order requiring the
Inspector General to redact his personal identification and identification of,
and any reference to, his juvenile case from its pleadings and exhibits.
 
1. Fictitious Name
Petitioner 1 seeks to continue
in this action under a fictitious name.  The Inspector General does not oppose to the
extent Petitioner seeks to proceed as ‘Petitioner 1’ and the court finds an
overriding interest.  Opp. at 8.
Case law unequivocally recognizes
the sensitive, highly personal nature of juvenile criminal records. See Welfare
and Institutions Code §827 (strictly limiting access to juvenile case records);
see also J.E. v. Superior Court, (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1329,
1337 [“There is a strong public policy of confidentiality of juvenile records”;
discretion over record confidentiality granted to juvenile court due to its
“‘sensitivity and expertise’”); In re Keisha T., (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th
220, 231 (public policy to protect confidentiality of juvenile proceedings and
records).  
For this reason, and for
additional reasons discussed with Petitioner 1’s counsel and known to the
Inspector General, the court finds there is an overriding interest in
protecting Petitioner 1’s anonymity, confirmed by the statutory scheme
protecting the confidentiality of juvenile criminal records.  The motion to continue under the fictitious
designation as “Petitioner 1” is granted.
 
2. Sealing
The Inspector General argues that
Petitioner 1 seeks a prospective sealing order rather than a protective order
because the latter is a discovery device and does not, strictly speaking, apply
to court filings.  Opp. at 4.
This is technically correct but
immaterial for purposes of this motion.  Applying CRC
2.550, there is an overriding interest in the confidentiality of juvenile
records which overcomes the right of public access and supports sealing. The
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not at least partly
sealed because Petitioner 1’s juvenile conviction record will be exposed to
public view.
The Inspector General criticizes
Petitioner 1’s motion on two other grounds: (1) he has not specifically lodged
any material to be sealed; and (2) it is overbroad, particularly the phrase
“reference to [the juvenile record’s] contents” which will likely sweep all the
parties’ filings within its scope.  Opp.
at 5-6.  
On the first issue, CRC 2.551(b)(1)
requires a party to file a motion and an application for an order, a
memorandum, and a declaration of facts.  Petitioner 1 has done so.  A party must also lodge the documents
proposed to be sealed “unless good cause exists for not lodging it”.  CRC 2.551(b)(4). There is good cause as the
sealing request is prospective in nature.
On the second issue, the court agrees that
Petitioner 1’s proposed sealing is overbroad. 
The term “reference to its contents” is impermissibly vague and would result
in a sealing order that applies to the whole record of the proceedings.  Petitioner 1’s interest in privacy can be
equally served by a more narrowly tailored order.  The sealing order will require redaction of (1)
any personal identifying information of Petitioner 1, and (2) any juvenile case
number or equivalent identifying information for Petitioner 1’s juvenile conviction.  
There remains an issue whether the parties
may refer to the facts underlying Petitioner 1’s juvenile conviction without
identifying information.  Petitioner 1’s
authority concerns the release of juvenile records by state and local
authorities (see T.N.G. v. Superior Court, (191) 4 Cal.3d 767,
778-79), not the use of such information. 
Petitioner 1 has cited no authority that juvenile convictions may not be
discussed in a court proceeding in which the juvenile is not identified.  The court declines to issue a redaction order
on this issue but the court will discuss with counsel what information is
likely to be disclosed in court filings and whether a petition to the juvenile
court will be necessary.
 
            D. Conclusion
The motion is granted in part.  Petitioner 1 may continue in the case under
that pseudonym.   The parties are ordered
to redact in all filings (1) any personal identifying information of Petitioner
1, and (2) any juvenile case number or equivalent identifying information for
Petitioner 1’s juvenile conviction.  The
court will discuss with counsel what information is likely to be disclosed in
court filings and whether a petition to the juvenile court will be necessary.