 Case Number:  24STCV20340    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV20340




MOTION:  


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant F21 OpCo, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Anne Heiting



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Anne Heiting (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant F21 OpCo, LLC (“Defendant”) for
violations of Penal Code section 638.51. 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s complaint and moves to strike portions
of the complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the
motions.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.) 
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendant demurs
to Plaintiff’s claim under Penal Code section 638.51, subdivision (a), which
provides a person may not install or use a trap and trace device without first
obtaining a court order.  A “trap and
trace device” is a mechanism or process that captures the incoming electronic
or other impulses that identify the originating number or other dialing,
routing, addressing, or signaling information reasonably likely to identify the
source of the communication.  (Pen. Code,
§ 638.50, subd. (c).)  However, a
provider of electronic communication services may use a trap and trace device
to operate, maintain, and test its electronic communication service; protect
its rights or property; protect users of the service from abuse or unlawful use
of service; record the fact a wire or electronic communication was initiated or
completed to protect either the provider or user of the service from
fraudulent, unlawful, or abusive use of service; or if the provider obtains
consent from the user.  (Pen. Code, §
638.51, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendant is a retail company which sells clothing and accessories and operates
a website, and Defendant installed software on its website, which enables
Defendant to learn the location, source, and identity of consumers who access
its website (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-2); TikTok created the software, which gathers
information about users of Defendant’s website and compares it to existing data
TikTok accumulated about its users (id., ¶¶ 13-14); and the software is
“a process to identify the source of electronic communication by capturing
incoming electronic impulses and identifying dialing, routing, addressing, and
signaling information generated by users, who are never informed that the
website is collaborating with the Chinese government to obtain their phone
number and other identifying information” (id., ¶ 18).  Plaintiff alleges, therefore, the software is
a trap and trace device, which Defendant installed in violation of Penal Code
section 638.51.  For pleading purposes,
Plaintiff’s allegations suffice.
Both parties rely extensively on federal
opinions not from the Supreme Court of the United States, which do not bind
this Court.  (Mesler v. Bragg Mgt. Co.
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 299.)  The parties
also cite trial court orders.  “Neither
federal district court procedures nor decisions are binding on this court.” (Thomas
G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 503.)  Likewise, “a written trial court ruling has
no precedential value . . . .” (Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.)  The
Court disregards these citations.  
Defendant argues Penal Code section
638.51 does not apply to Plaintiff’s use of Defendant’s website, but rather
only applies “to third parties to a communication.”  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support of Demurrer, p. 12.)  Defendant
is incorrect.  By its terms Penal Code
section 638.51 applies to any person’s use of a trap and trace device.  (Pen. Code, § 638.50, subd. (c).)  If, as Plaintiff alleges, Defendant’s
software identified Plaintiff without Plaintiff’s consent or without a valid
reason to do so, Defendant is liable.  
Nonetheless, Defendant
argues it is not liable because Defendant used the software at issue “to
operate, maintain, and test a wire or electronic communication service . . . .”  (Pen. Code, § 638.51, subd. (b)(1).)  Defendant’s purpose in using the software is
an issue of fact, which the Court cannot reach on demurrer.  Defendant must raise this argument through
other means, such as an evidentiary motion.
Defendant also
argues Penal Code section 638.51 applies only to devices connected to telephone
lines.  Again, Defendant is
incorrect.  By its terms, the statute applies
to “electronic or wire communication service . . . .”  (Pen. Code, § 638.51, subd. (b)) and does not
require connection to telephone lines.  “Only
when the language of a statute is susceptible to more than one reasonable
construction is it appropriate to turn to extrinsic aids, including the
legislative history of the measure, to ascertain its meaning.”  (Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1036, 1055.)  As Penal Code section 638.51 is unambiguous,
the Court need not look outside its text.
Defendant further argues Plaintiff lacks
standing because Plaintiff fails to allege she suffered damages.  The Court disagrees because Plaintiff may
recover statutory damages, even if Plaintiff did not suffer actual
damages.  (Pen. Code, § 637.2, subd. (a).)
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer
for punitive damages and attorney fees. 
Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive damages on her statutory
claim.  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256.)  Therefore,
the Court strikes the prayer for punitive damages without leave to amend.  Likewise, Plaintiff fails to cite any
statutory provision under which Plaintiff is entitled to attorney fees.  Thus, the Court strikes the prayer for
attorney fees with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint
is overruled. 
Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages is granted without leave to amend, while the motion
to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees is granted with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended
complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.