  Case Number:  22STCV37369    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV37369A




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to Amend




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Urban Soccer 5 Center LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Lisa Marie Vernola Salas, individually and as trustee
  of the Vernola Family Trust and Joan Vernola, as trustee of the Vernola
  Family Trust



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Urban Soccer 5 Center LLC (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Lisa Marie Vernola
Salas, individually and as trustee of the Vernola Family Trust and Joan
Vernola, as trustee of the Vernola Family Trust (“Defendants”) for breach of a
commercial lease agreement.  Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend to file a second amended complaint.  Defendants oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by the code.”  Thus, the Court
has wide discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as
may be just.”  
Judicial policy
favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore,
leave to amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading must include a
copy of the proposed amendment and state the allegations the moving party
proposes to add or delete. Rule 3.1324 also requires the moving party to submit
declaration stating the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary
and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(a).) 
Plaintiff relies
on the declaration of its counsel, Michelangelo Tatone (“Counsel”).  Counsel states Plaintiff seeks leave to
assert a claim against Sebastien Abonnel (“Abonnel”).  He adds, “During the discovery process,
specifically through a document produced by the Defendants, a document revealed
the extent of Mr. Abonnel’s conspiracy with the current Defendants.”  (Declaration of Michelangelo Tatone, ¶
9.)  Counsel fails to aver when Plaintiff
received this document from Defendants and what it purports to state.  As such, Plaintiff fails to explain why
Plaintiff did not seek leave to amend earlier. 
Further, in its proposed second amended complaint, Plaintiff purports to
also add Soccer Center LLC and GS Sports Investments LLC as Defendants.  However, Counsel does not explain why these parties
must be added to the action and the bases for doing so in keeping with rule 3.1324.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion because
it lacks evidentiary support.   
Plaintiff is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.