 Case Number:  23STCV11864    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



S.S., a minor through his Guardian ad Litem, Veronica
  Robinson; L.S., a minor through her Guardian ad Litem, Veronica Robinson,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
County
  of Los Angeles, a public entity; County of San Bernardino, a public entity;
  and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11864
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS s, S.S., a minor through his Guardian ad Litem, Veronica
  Robinson and
L.S.,
  a minor through her guardian ad litem, Veronica Robinson MOTION TO ADMIT
  COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE 
 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  04, 2024



 
I.            
BACKGROUND
On November 20, 2023, Thomas Stewart
(“Applicant”) filed this application to appear as counsel pro hac vice to
represent Plaintiffs S.S., a minor through his Guardian ad Litem Veronica
Robinson, and LS., a minor through her guardian ad litem Veronica Robinson (“Plaintiffs”)
in this action. (Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶ 3.) 

Applicant is a resident of Chicago, Illinois
and is an attorney and member of the law firm of Derantany & Kosner.
(Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) 
Applicant has been a member in good standing of the State Bar of Illinois
since November 7, 2019, and has not been suspended or disbarred from any court.
(Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶¶ 4,7-8.) Applicant is not a resident of California
and is not a member of The California State Bar. (Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶¶
1,11.) Applicant has filed a motion to appear as counsel in California courts
during the last two years in the following actions (Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶
15.):
A.  
Superior
Court of California, County of Los Angeles in the matter of Victor Avalos
et. al v. County of Los Angeles et. al, Case No. 19STCV27032 on April 26,
2022. The motion was granted.
B.  
United
States District Court, Central District of California in the matter of Gary
Agosto v. County of Los Angeles, Case No. 2:21-CV-08305-FWS-JDE on December
13, 2022. The motion was granted.
C.  
Superior
Court of California, County of Los Angeles in the matter of V.M, a minor et.
al v. County of Los Angeles, Case No. 22STCP04257 on March 15, 2023. The
motion was granted.
Local counsel of record associated with Application in this
action is Brian E. Claypool. (Motion, Stewart Decl., ¶ 17.)
II.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court. Rule 9.40.) 
     The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State
Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).)
III.        
DISCUSSION
Thomas Stewart seeks a court order
allowing him to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent Plaintiffs in this
action. The application complies with the requirements of California Rules of
Court Rule 9.40, including serving notice on and paying the required fees to the
State Bar of California.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the unopposed application
is GRANTED.
          It is ordered
that Thomas Stewart be admitted to appear as counsel pro hac vice for the
purpose of representing Plaintiffs in this action.  Applicant shall be subject to all applicable
rules of this Court.
Moving party to give notice.  
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 Dated this 4th day of January 2024 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 