 Case Number:  20STCV41114    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



FELIPE
  LARA PENA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALVIN
   BRUCE FERGUSON, et al.
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 20STCV41114
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO SPECIALLY SET HEARING DATE ON
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ALTERNATIVELY CONTINUE TRIAL
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
   4, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 27, 2020, Plaintiff filed this motor vehicle negligence action against
Defendants. Trial is currently scheduled for April 29, 2024.  Defendant
Alvin Bruce Ferguson seeks an order
advancing the hearing date for the motion for summary judgment or,
alternatively, continuing the trial date. The motion is unopposed.  
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
MSJ
A party may move for summary judgment by serving
the motion "at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing,"
and the "motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of
trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise." (CCP §
437c(a)(2)-(3).) Importantly, "[a] trial court may not refuse to hear a
summary judgment filed within the time limits of section 437c. Local rules and
practices may not be applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a
motion." (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d
526, 529.)
Continue Trial
Trial dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition
of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) Continuances are thus
generally disfavored. (See id. rule 3.1332(b).) Nevertheless, the trial
court has discretion to continue trial dates. (Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.) Each request for continuance must be
considered on its own merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good
cause. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c); Hernandez, supra,
115 Cal.App.4th at 1246.) Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
(1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) the unavailability of a party
due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) the unavailability
of trial counsel due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4)
the substitution of trial counsel where there is an affirmative showing that
the substitution is required in the interests of justice; (5) the addition of a
new party if (A) the new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case; (6) a party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or (7) a significant, unanticipated change in the status of
the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
The court must also consider such relevant
factors as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial caused by any party;
(3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application. (Id., rule 3.1332(d).)
On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set.  This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good
faith effort at informal resolution. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)   
The court shall take into consideration any
matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the
necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.050, subd. (b).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Here, Defendant
Alvin Bruce Ferguson (“Moving Defendant”) moves to advance the hearing date of
his summary judgment motion or to continue the trial date. The motion is set
for May 8, 2024, and trial is set to commence on April 29, 2024. Given the
number of cases each Personal Injury Hub court has on its docket (currently,
each such court has more than 4,000 cases assigned to it), Personal Injury Hub
courts do not advance or specially set motion dates.  Attempting to do so would simply open a
Pandora’s Box of scheduling.  Instead,
the PI Hub has adopted the approach of continuing trial dates when other
motions must be heard before trial.  As
such, Defendant’s motion to continue the trial date in this case is
granted.  Trial is hereby continued to
[FATD June 10, 2024], and the Final Status Conference continued to XXX. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of January
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 