 Case Number:  22STCV36773    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARCELINO
  JOHN, an individual; 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
THE COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, a
government
  entity; THE CITY OF LOS
ANGELES, a government
  entity; LOS
ANGELES
  COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION
  AUTHORITY, a
public
  entity; and DOES 1 through 50,
Inclusive;
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV36773
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 04,
  2022



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
Bradley S. Wallace (“Counsel”) and The Wallace
Firm, PC, Plaintiff Marcelino John’s attorneys of record, seek to be relieved
because there is a conflict of interest that precludes further representation,
and there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
“The question of granting or denying an
application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284,
subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial court
‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the handling
of the case.’ [Citation.]”  (People v.
Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The court should also consider whether the
attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the
client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v.
Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
that the following be submitted in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision
(2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising
the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed
order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds.
(a), (c), (d), (e).) 
III.            
DISCUSSION
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel of
record for Plaintiff for the following reason: “Attorney and client have a
conflict of interest that precludes further representation of client. There has
been a break down in the attorney client relationship that precludes further
representation. Attorney is unable to represent client as a result of this
breakdown and conflict.” (MC-052.) 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an
attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.).¿ The Court notes trial is currently set for May
20, 2024, and finds that there is no showing that prejudice will result to
Plaintiff in granting the motion. 
Upon review, the Court finds the motion
complies with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362.
IV.            
CONCLUSION
The unopposed motion to be relieved as counsel
is granted and effective upon the filing of service of this signed order upon
Plaintiff and all parties who have appeared.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 4th
day of January 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 