 Case Number:  23STCV06081    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Uriel Javier Lopez, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV06081




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Judy Phu, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motions for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Cross-Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
Responding Party: Cross-Complainant Judy Phu
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANTS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and surreply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff Uriel
Javier Lopez filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants
Judy Phu, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern California Permanente
Medical Group, asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; and (2) medical
malpractice. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Phu lost consciousness while driving
and struck Plaintiff causing severe personal injury. Plaintiff alleges the
Kaiser Defendants negligently allowed Plaintiff to drive despite treating her
for lupus and seizures.
 
On September 15, 2023, Phu filed the
operative first amended cross-complaint against Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group asserting causes of action for
indemnity, apportionment of fault, comparative fault, and declaratory relief.
Phu seeks indemnification from Kaiser for liability to Lopez on the ground that
they failed to advise her not to drive.
 
On September 11, 2024, Lopez dismissed
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals from the first amended complaint.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
Cross-Defendants move for summary
judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication of the cross-complaint on
the grounds that Cross-Defendants are not liable to Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants were not negligent in their treatment of Cross-Complainant. 
 
In the moving papers, Cross-Defendants
assert that by the time the Court addresses this motion, Cross-Defendants'
motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s complaint would have been
adjudicated in their favor, eliminating any liability to Plaintiff and
therefore any liability to Cross-Complainant. But Cross-Defendants took their
motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s complaint off calendar before
hearing on the instant motion. 
 
Cross-Defendants also argue that the
cross-complaint fails because Cross-Defendants did not breach a duty of care of
Cross-Complainant. The elements of medical malpractice are: “(1) the duty of
the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of
his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.” (Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App.
3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).) “Both the standard of care and defendants’
breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical
malpractice case.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)  
 
Cross-Defendants present evidence
purportedly showing that Cross-Complainant was advised not to drive without
clearance from her doctor after she was treated by Cross-Defendants for a
seizure in May of 2021, approximately seven months before the December 2021
auto accident. Cross-Defendants also provide the declaration of expert neurologist
David Alexander, M.D., who states that Cross-Defendants did not need to advise
Cross-Complainant not to drive because her condition did not require it.
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainant
disputes whether she was told not to drive by Cross-Defendants.
Cross-Complainant also asserts a neurologist should have examined her to
determine whether she should drive but Cross-Defendants did not refer her to a neurologist.
In reply, Cross-Defendants argue the motion must be granted because
Cross-Complainant has not presented a contradictory expert opinion.
 
In surreply, Cross-Complainant presents
the declaration of expert Gelsey L. Goodstein, M.D.,
who states that Cross-Defendants should have explicitly advised
Cross-Complainant not to drive. This declaration was acquired by Plaintiff and
used in Plaintiff’s opposition to Cross-Defendant's motion for summary judgment
of Plaintiff’s pleading. Cross-Complainant asserts that she did not have access
to this prior to the date the opposition was due because Cross-Defendants
advanced the hearing on the instant motion to be heard with the motion against
Plaintiff’s complaint. Cross-Complainant argues that the Court must consider
the surreply because Cross-Defendants motion for summary judgment of the
cross-complaint represents that the motion for summary judgment on the
complaint would be heard and granted before hearing on the motion for summary
judgment of the cross-complaint.
 
The Court finds a triable issue of fact as to whether Cross-Defendants
breached the standard of care. Cross-Defendants’ own evidence contradicts
itself, showing both that Cross-Defendants believed Cross-Complainant was not
fit to drive and that Cross-Defendants believed Cross-Complainant was fit to
drive. And the motion itself argues that it is dependent on a ruling on
Cross-Defendants motion for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s complaint; Plaintiff
presented an opposing expert opinion in opposition to that motion.
 
Cross-Defendants' motion is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 