  Case Number:  22STCV03145    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Lawrence Harris,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV03145




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Staples Center, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendants Anschutz Entertainment
Group and LA Arena Company, LLC
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
                
On January 26, 2022, Plaintiff Lawrence
Harris filed a complaint against “Defendant Staple Center.” The complaint
arises from alleged harassment, but the allegations of the complaint do not
identify any acts of harassment.  
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the first amended complaint against Defendant Anschutz Entertainment Group,
which merely states that Plaintiff is “now asking that the 4th amended
complaint as a defended name change.” (FAC at p.1:14-17.) The FAC contains no
factual allegations. On March 20, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to the FAC.
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint appearing to allege that Defendant’s failure to
require basketball players to wear eye protection is harassment against
Plaintiff. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants LA Arena Company, LLC, and Anschutz Entertainment Group demur to the
second amended complaint on the grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts
to establish any cause of action and that it is uncertain. As stated, the second amended complaint alleges that Defendant’s
failure to require basketball players to wear eye protection is harassment
against Plaintiff. This is confusing and does not support any legally
cognizable cause of action. Based on the previous iterations of the complaint,
the Court sees no way that amendment could cure these defects. Plaintiff does
not oppose this motion to show otherwise.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.


 