 Case Number:  22VECV00123    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  T WATSON V REO 22VECV00123
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Perry Cooper’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Defendants The REO Group, Inc.
(REO) and Perry Cooper’s (Cooper) motion to compel arbitration was originally
heard by the Court on June 20, 2024.  The
Court ruled upon REO’s motion but continued Cooper’s motion for further
briefing.  Cooper and Plaintiff Gina
Watson (Plaintiff) both filed supplemental briefs on July 3, 2024 and July 16,
2024, respectively.
Discussion 
Cooper, a nonsignatory to the
Loan/DOT, asserted that he can enforce the arbitration provision in the
Loan/DOT entered between Plaintiff and REO as either an agent of REO or as an
alter ego of REO.  “No reported California
case has decided whether a nonsignatory sued as the alter ego of a signatory
can enforce an arbitration provision. California courts do recognize, however,
that a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration
agreement.”  (Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 (Rowe).)  Setting
aside alter ego argument, the Court first reviewed the agency analysis for nonsignatories'
ability to enforce an arbitration provision. 

As reviewed by the Rowe Court,
individual defendants can enforce an arbitration provision as nonsignatories if
they were acting as the agents of the corporate entity.  (Id.; citing to Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418.)  Plaintiff
expressly alleged that Cooper was the President and Shareholder of REO.  (SAC par. 31.)  Plaintiff further alleged that all named
defendants acted as the agent or employee of the other defendants.  (SAC pars. 33-34.)  The allegations against Cooper further allege
that his alleged misconduct/breaches were undertaken in his capacity as
President of REO.  (SAC pars.
90-91.)  The Court finds the allegations
as to agency sufficient to support Cooper’s basis to enforce the arbitration
agreement.  As an alleged agent of REO,
Cooper shows his entitlement to enforce the arbitration agreement in the
Loan/DOT entered between Plaintiff and REO. 
Plaintiff  argued that the agency
allegation is conclusory, a legal conclusion and is not an admitted fact.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th
936, 949 (Berman).)  However, the Berman
case is not instructive on the issue because it did not review the matter under
a motion to enforce an arbitration agreement. The Berman Court reviewed a motion
for leave to file an amended complaint. 
Further, the Rowe Court merely reviewed the allegations of the pleading
to make its determination regarding agency. 
Whether Plaintiff can or cannot prove agency relationship is not yet
relevant.
Plaintiff argued that the claims
against Cooper are outside the scope of the arbitration agreement.  However, the Court already ruled on June 20,
2024 that the scope of the arbitration agreement is broad and the COAs of
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, conversion, and violation of Business and
Professions Code, section 17200 are covered under the arbitration
agreement.  The Court will not revisit
this issue.
Plaintiff again raised the
argument that the Note/DOT was entered through fraud and is thus void ab
initio.  However, the Court previously
reviewed this issue at the June 20, 2024 hearing and found it unpersuasive.  The Court will not revisit this issue.
Plaintiff argued that the
arbitration agreement makes no reference to “employees” being covered under the
arbitration agreement and cited to Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475 (as cited in Rowe, supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1285.)  However, Cooper is not moving to enforce
based upon his employee status.  Cooper
is moving to enforce as the agent of REO and the arbitration agreement
expressly binds agents of REO.  (Cooper
Decl. (filed April 18, 2024), Exh. C: Arbitration Agreement pg. 1 at section
1.)  This is a straw-man argument and not
found to be persuasive.  
Plaintiff argued that equitable
estoppel should not be applied to allow Cooper to enforce the arbitration
agreement.  However, the contention is
also a straw-man argument.  Cooper’s
supplemental brief did not argue equitable estoppel as grounds to enforce the
arbitration agreement.  It is noted that
the Rowe Court reviewed the theory of equitable estoppel, however, no such
argument is made by Cooper herein. 
(Rowe, supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1286-1290.)  Because equitable estoppel was not raised as
grounds to enforce, the Court finds Plaintiff’s equitable estoppel argument to
dispute enforcement unpersuasive.  
Plaintiff argued that the case of
Benasra v. Marciano (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 987 is directly on point with the
instant action.  However, the Court
disagrees.  In Benasra, Paul Marciano and
Guess?, Inc., as moving party defendants, asserted that Plaintiff/Opposing
Party Michel Benasra, a nonsignatory, was the agent of a corporate entity
(i.e., signatory to the agreement) or a third party beneficiary of the
corporate entity that entered into the Licensing Agreement with the arbitration
agreement.  The factual positions of the
parties in Benasra are distinguishable. 
Cooper is not arguing that Plaintiff is an agent or third party
beneficiary to any corporate entity in order to have Plaintiff’s claims
arbitrated.  Cooper is arguing that he is
the agent of the corporate entity and attempting to enforce the arbitration
agreement that Plaintiff signed.  Because
of the factual differences between the instant action and Benasra, the Court
does not find Benasra to be directly on point, as asserted by Plaintiff.  
The Court finds the agency argument, as reviewed
above, to be persuasive.  Cooper’s motion
to compel arbitration and stay the action are GRANTED.   CLERK
TO GIVE NOTICE.