  Case Number:  21STCV30186    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  T MCLELLAN V TEMPLE CITY  21STCV30186 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Herald Christian Health  Center’s Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff Anne McLellan’s request  for bifurcation made in the Opposition to the instant Motion is DENIED WITHOUT  PREJUDICE.Objections by plaintiff are overruled as irrelevant to the court's determination.   Introduction  Cross-Defendant Herald Christian  Health Center (Cross-Defendant or HCHC) moved for leave to file a  Cross-Complaint against non-party Azusa Pacific University (APU).  Plaintiff Anne McLellan (Plaintiff) opposed  the motion and requested bifurcation.   Discussion  A party can cross-complain  against a codefendant or third person not yet a party to the action only if the  cause of action asserted “(1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence,  or series of transactions or occurrences [set forth in the complaint] … or (2)  asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the  subject of the cause [of action] brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 428.10(b).)  “Permission to file a permissive  cross-complaint is solely within the trial court’s discretion.” (Crocker Nat.  Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)  Factors considered are judicial efficiency,  fairness to the parties, the interests of justice, and delay in seeking court’s  permission to file the cross-complaint.   (Id.)   HCHC seeks to file a  Cross-Complaint alleging indemnification and other claims against APU based  upon the indemnity provisions in a contract between HCHC and APU.  Plaintiff in the underlying Complaint  suffered a trip and fall.  Plaintiff was  an employee of APU at the time of the incident and supervising nursing students  that administered COVID-19 immunization on the date of the incident.  These facts are sufficient to show that the  incident arises from the same series of transactions/occurrences because Plaintiff  would not have been at the site of her injury without entry into the contracts  presented by HCHC.  HCHC sufficiently  showed that this is a permissive Cross-Complaint. HCHC argued that the  Cross-Complaint should be filed in this action to save on judicial  economy.  The Court agrees with HCHC that  judicial economy is sufficient grounds to allow the filing of HCHC’s  Cross-Complaint.  Plaintiff argued  unexcused delay in failing to file a cross-complaint when HCHC filed their  Answer to the cross-complaint filed by Defendant Temple City (Temple).  Plaintiff argued that HCHC has been a party  to the instant action since July 25,2022, when Temple added HCHC as Roe 1 to  Temple’s Cross-Complaint.  However, being  named in a Cross-Complaint is insufficient to show that HCHC had knowledge of  their claims against APU.  Further, HCHC  provided facts to show their delay was reasonable.  HCHC provided that their Federal Tort Claim  tendered to the United States was recently rejected and HCHC’s tender of their  defense to APU was also rejected.  The  recent denials of HCHC’s tenders are sufficient to show excuse for their  delay.  The Court disagrees with  Plaintiff’s contention of unexcused delay. Plaintiff further disputed the  validity or merit of the allegations in the HCHC’s proposed  Cross-Complaint.  Whether APU is truly  liable to HCHC under indemnification grounds is not a proper issue to be  resolved in the instant motion. The motion for leave to file the  Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for  bifurcation within the instant Opposition is improper because the request  failed to provide proper notice and opportunity to be heard on the issue.  Further, the two cases cited by Plaintiff are  unpersuasive to show that the Court has authority to order bifurcation through  a request within an opposition to a motion for leave to file a  cross-complaint.  Although HCHC submits  to Plaintiff’s request for bifurcation, notice and opportunity to be heard was  not given to the other parties in this action.    Plaintiff’s Opposition request  for bifurcation is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   This Order does not preclude Plaintiff from filing a separate motion to  bifurcate.  