 Case Number:  23SMCV02465    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KSFB MANAGEMENT, LLC,   Plaintiff, v.  FOCUS FINANCIAL PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02696     Hearing Date:  January 9, 2025   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   defendant’S MOTIONs TO COMPEL    FURTHER RESPONSES TO second set    of SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, first    set of supplemental requests      For production, and fourth set    of requests for production         BACKGROUND  This action relates to a dispute over a non-compete provision.  Defendant Focus Financial Partners LLC (“Focus”) is an acquirer of, and investor in, financial wealth management firms and other financial services firms.  (Compl. ¶6.)  Focus—through its wholly owned subsidiary NKSFB, LLC (“NKSFB”)—acquired substantially all assets of Nigro Karlin Segal Feldstein & Bolno, LLC (“Nigro Karlin”), a business management firm.  (Id. ¶¶ 6, 16.)  At the same time, the principals of Nigro Karlin formed a management company—Plaintiff KSFB Management LLC (“KSFB”) – through which those principals would, pursuant to a Management Agreement, manage and oversee the NKSFB business.  (Id. ¶ 17.) As part of the initial acquisition, KFSB and its principals agreed to a Transaction Management Agreement (“TMA”).  (Id. ¶ 18.)  The TMA contains a non-compete covenant which applied for two years following the termination of (a) the TMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id.)  The parties also signed a separate Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement, which contained a five year non-compete expiring on April 1, 2023, which KSFB concedes is valid and enforceable.  (Id. ¶ 19.) On July 1, 2022, the parties entered into an Amended and Restated Management Agreement (“ARMA”) which is an amended and restated version of the TMA.  (Id. ¶ 20.) The ARMA contains a materially similar non-compete covenant to the one to which the parties agreed in the TMA.  The ARMA’s non-compete similarly applied for two years following the termination of (a) the ARMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id. ¶¶ 21, 25.)  On June 7, 2023, KSFB sued Focus, seeking a declaratory judgment that the ARMA’s non-compete is not enforceable under California law.  The operative complaint alleges two claims for (1) declaratory relief and (2) injunctive relief.   On August 12, 2024, Focus served its Second Set of Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”).  Nine interrogatories are at issue in this motion.  Those interrogatories seek facts, witnesses and documents related to three allegations made in KFSB’s complaint: (1) “Focus has asserted that it will seek to enforce Sections 2.12(a) and (b) of the ARMA if the Principals terminate their relationship with the Management Company and seek to work in the same line of business as the Management Company,” (Compl. ¶ 29); (2) “Sections 2.12(a) and (b) of the ARMA are unenforceable,” and (3) “an actual controversy has arisen and now exists between the parties concerning their respective rights, duties and obligations under Sections 2.12(a) and (b) of the ARMA” (id. ¶ 31).  KSFB served only objections to the SROGs.  (Ex. 1 to Glass Decl.) On August 12, 2024, Focus served its Fourth Set of RFPs.  The Fourth Set of RFPs build on the Second Set to SROGs, by seeking documents identified in interrogatories relating to the above three allegations in KSFB’s complaint.  (Ex. 2 to Glass Decl.)  KSFB served only objections to the Fourth Set of RFPs.  (Id.)   On August 12, 2024, Focus served its First Set of Supplemental Requests for Production (“RFPs”).  The Supplemental RFPs asked KSFB “to review all requests for production of documents previously served on KSFB by Focus – reproduced or narrowed, in Exhibit A—as well as the responses that were made to those requests, and to amend said responses based upon any and all later acquired information.  If, for any reason, any response is no longer correct or complete, identify the response and state and/or provide copies of whatever information and/or documentation is necessary in a verified response to make it correct and complete as of this date.  If there are no changes, please provide a verified response to that effect.”  (Ex. 6 to Glass Decl.)  The Supplemental RFPs sought supplemental responses to those requests for which KSFB previously provided responses (RFPs 1-3, 14-15), and for which the Court granted a motion to compel the underlying requests (RFPs 4-7, 9, and 12-13).  KSFB served only objections to the Supplemental RFPs.  (Id.)      This hearing is on Focus’ motions to compel responses to its Second Set of SROGs, First Set of Supplemental RFPs and Fourth Set of RFPs.  Focus argues that it has good cause to seek the discovery requested in these discovery requests, and KSFB’s objections to the SROGs and RFPs are boilerplate and meritless.   LEGAL STANDARD A¿motion to compel further responses¿to a¿document request¿is proper where the moving party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, evasive and/or an objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (a).)  The motion must show good cause to justify the discovery and must be supported by a meet and confer declaration. (Id. at subd. (b).) Where responses to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a).) The motion must be made within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any verified supplemental responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(c).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b).) The scope of discovery is liberally construed in favor of disclosure “as a matter of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”  (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355, 377-378.)  The broad scope of permissible discovery includes “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence”.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) MEET AND CONFER Focus submits the Declaration of Scott Glass in support of its meet and confer requirements.  The declaration attests the parties met and conferred on the Second Set of SROGs and First Set of Supplemental RFPs, but concedes there was no meet and confer on the Fourth Set of RFPs because counsel saw no point in discussing the Fourth Set of RFPs which merely build on the Second Set of SROGs, for which KSFB refused to respond.  As to the First Set of Supplemental RFPs, the parties have submitted contradicting declarations from their counsel as to whether the parties met and conferred on these requests.  Exhibit 9 to the declaration of Focus’ counsel indicates the parties did not discuss the First Set of Supplemental RFPs in depth but merely discussed an extension of time to move to compel on these RFPs.  The Court concludes Focus has not complied with its meet and confer obligations as to the First Set of Supplemental RFPs, but has done so as to the other discovery requests.  Accordingly, the Court declines to consider the motion to compel further responses to the First Set of Supplemental RFPs.    DISCUSSION Second Set of SROGs Focus argues that its second set of SROGs are contention interrogatories are expressly authorized by Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010(b).  In opposition, KSFB argues that the SROGs go beyond the typical contention interrogatory and “ask KSFB to reveal its legal conclusions, work product, and privileged information instead of any ultimate facts, or ask about Focus’ intentions and positions relating to various legal issues in the case.”  (Opp. at 3:2-5.)  The Court agrees with Focus. Contention interrogatories—including ones related to the “facts, witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based”—are expressly authorized by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010(b).  And California courts have repeatedly held that contention interrogatories like those asked in the Second Set SROGs can “properly be asked in interrogatories.” (Gonsalves v. Li (2015) 232 Cal. App. 4th 1406, 1415 (2015).   The leading California case explained as follows: “[I]f [a party] wants to know what the adverse party is contending, or how it rationalizes the facts as supporting a contention, it may ask that question in an interrogatory. The party answering the interrogatory may then, with aid of counsel, apply the legal reasoning involved in marshaling the facts relied upon for each of its contentions.  (Rifkind v. Superior Ct. (1994) 22 Cal. App. 4th 1255, 1262; id. at 1261 (collecting cases reaffirming the information sought by “legal contention questions” is “clearly discoverable when sought by written interrogatory”).  This is precisely what the SROGs do here.  They ask for facts, witnesses and documents supporting KSFB’s allegations in its Complaint.  KSFB’s argument that the SROGs ask about Focus’ intentions and positions relating to various legal issues in the case is specious.  KSFB alleged in its Complaint that Focus was taking certain positions, and asking the facts, witnesses and documents that support that allegation does not mean KSFB is being asked to divine Focus’ intentions and positions.    KSFB objects that the SROGs seek “information subject to attorney-client privilege . . . and attorney work product privilege.”  That objection is meritless. As an initial matter, “[a]n interrogatory is not objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to fact, or would be based on information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation or in preparation for trial.”  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.010(b).)  Beyond that, facts are not protected by the attorney-client privilege or work-product doctrine.  (See, e.g., Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2009) 47 Cal. 4th 725, 736 (recognizing that facts communicated to attorney may nevertheless be discoverable). The identities of witnesses with information about relevant facts are also not subject to the privilege.  (See Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 541 (party is entitled “to learn ‘the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter’”). And if KSFB claims that any documents are privileged, then KSFB must provide sufficient information for Focus to assess its privilege claims including by providing a privilege log.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c).) KSFB claims it expects to be able to respond to the Second Set of SROGs once it receives the final transcript of the deposition of Focus’s Person Most Knowledgeable. (Opp. at 4.)  But KSFB made certain allegations in its Complaint for which it must have support.  KSFB must know the information that supports the allegations in its own Complaint, and while KSFB may be able to supplement its response with discovery from Focus, this does not excuse its complete failure to respond to these SROGs.   Finally, KSFB argues the Court should deny Focus’s motion because Focus filed a joint statement for this motion without KSFB’s portion included. (Opp. at 2.)  As the Court now has a joint statement from both parties, it declines to deny Focus’ motion on this ground.   Fourth Set of RFPs The Fourth Set of RFPs request the production of documents identified in the Second Set of SROGs.  For reasons discussed above, because KSFB’s objections to the Second Set of SROGs are without merit, so too are its objections to the Fourth Set of RFPs. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendant Focus Financial Partners, LLC’s motions to compel responses to its Second Set of SROGs, First Set of Supplemental RFPs, and Fourth Set of RFPs.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: January 9, 2025    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  