 Case Number:  24SMCV00408    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  ANITA GORWARA,    Plaintiff, v.  DR. ALBERT CHANG, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00408     Hearing Date: January 9, 2025   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   Defendants DR. ALBERT CHANG    AND KYONG AE KIM’S MOTION TO    STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S VERIFIED    second AMENDED COMPLAINT        BACKGROUND This case arises from a dispute between neighbors over a hedge.  Plaintiff Anita Gorwara is the owner of real property located at 15224 Earlham Street, Pacific Palisades, California (the “Property”).  In 2021, Plaintiff planted a Ficus hedge row which she claims was entirely on her Property near the property line of the adjacent property, commonly known as 15230 Earlham Street (the “Adjacent Property”).  At the time she planted the hedge, the Adjacent Property was a vacant house, having been foreclosed upon by a financial institution.     In 2021, Defendants Dr. Albert Chang and Kyong Ae Kim bought the Adjacent Property.  The Ficus hedge was already in existence at the time of Defendants’ purchase.  Plaintiff claims Defendants attempted to poison the hedge in September 2021, and when that failed, Defendants instructed their gardener to enter the Property and to cut down Plaintiff’s Ficus hedge.  Defendants maintain that the Ficus hedge is on their property.  This lawsuit ensued.   The original complaint alleges seven claims for (1) malicious damage to property (Cal. Civ. Code § 733), (2) trespass, (3) negligence per se, (4) negligence, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (6) injunctive relief and (7) quiet title.  Plaintiff then filed a first amended complaint which added as a new defendant, Defendants’ gardener, Carmen Carlos Martinez.  Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike against Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  The Court sustained the demurrer as to the claims for malicious damage to property, negligence per se, IIED, injunctive relief, and quiet title with leave to amend.  Additionally, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees.   Plaintiff then filed her second amended complaint, narrowing her claims to (1) malicious damage to property, (2) trespass, (3) negligence and (4) IIED.   This hearing is on Defendants’ motion to strike the second amended complaint (“SAC”).  Defendants argue (1) Plaintiffs’ claim for “malicious damage to property” fails because the statute on which it relies (Cal. Civ. Code § 733) is intended to address timber misappropriation and the unauthorized harvesting or destruction of timber resources for commercial purposes; (2) assuming § 733 is applicable, Plaintiff cannot seek both treble damages and punitive damages; (3) assuming § 733 is applicable, certain allegations in paragraph 29 of the SAC are irrelevant to the elements of the claim for malicious damage to property, and (4) Plaintiff seeks expenses associated with investigative reports which she cannot recover because they are not related to the tortious conduct.   LEGAL STANDARD The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §437.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. §435.5 requires that before the filing of a motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(3).)  Defendants submit the Declaration of Christine Chou which fails to show the parties met and conferred by telephone or in person.  Rather, counsel sent a meet and confer letter, and the parties exchanged emails.  (Chou Decl. ¶ 2.)  This fails to satisfy the meet and confer requirements of §435.5.  Notwithstanding, the Court cannot deny a motion to strike based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §435.5(a)(4).)   ANALYSIS Malicious Damage to Property Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not properly stated a claim for a violation of Cal. Civ. Code §733, which Defendants claim was intended to curtail unauthorized cutting and removal of timber resources suitable for commercial use, such as trees intended for construction materials or lumber.  The Court disagrees. “When interpreting a statute our primary task is to determine the Legislature’s intent.  In doing so we turn first to the statutory language, since the words the Legislature chose are the best indicators of its intent. But the ‘plain meaning’ rule does not prohibit a court from determining whether the literal meaning of a statute comports with its purpose…Literal construction should not prevail if it is contrary to the legislative intent apparent in the statute.” (Rincon Del Diablo Mun. Water Dist. v. San Diego Cty. Water Auth. (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 813, 818.) “The courts resist blind obedience to the putative ‘plain meaning’ of a statutory phrase where literal interpretation would defeat the Legislature’s central objective.” (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal. App. 4th 574, 579.)  The plain language of §733 appears broad, encompassing any unauthorized cutting or injury to trees or timber on another’s land.  However, Defendants argue the legislative history and objective demonstrate that this statute is intended to address specific circumstances involving timber misappropriation, the unauthorized harvesting or destruction of timber resources for commercial purposes.  But Defendants have not provided any legislative history nor case law which shows that in enacting §733, the Legislature only intended to address the destruction of trees for commercial purposes.    Defendants cite two cases in support of their position.  Neither support its position.  In Drewry v. Welch (1965) 236 Cal.App.2d 159, 176, timber sellers contracted with timber buyers for the removal of timber, to be completed within 10 years from date of the contract. If, at the end of the 10 years, 75 percent of the timber had been removed, the timber buyers would have three more years to complete the timbering. At the end of the 10 years, the timber buyers falsely advised that they had removed 75 percent of the timber and would exercise their right to remove the remaining timber. When the timber sellers learned the truth, they filed an action to enjoin further timbering and to quiet title. The trial court awarded monetary damages, including double damages pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 3346.  The timber buyers sought review. The appellate court affirmed, holding that the contract vested a present right to the timber in timber buyers, but that such right was defeated by the expiration of the contract as to timber not taken by then, although full consideration had been paid. The court affirmed the award of double damages, finding that the Legislature had authority to enact a provision that was penal in nature and make it applicable to an act of trespass. The court held that the statute made the award of such damages mandatory.  While Drewry involved the commercial misappropriation of timber, it did not hold that § 733 was limited to such misappropriation.   In Scholes v. Lambirth Trucking Co. (2020) 8 Cal.5th 1094,1108, the court held that a landowner could not recover enhanced damages for injury to trees under Civ. Code, § 3346, read together with Code Civ. Proc., § 733, because the enhanced damages provisions reached only conventional timber trespass, which involved intrusion on others’ land to cause direct and intentional injuries to trees, and thus were inapplicable to the landowner's allegations that another property owner had negligently allowed a fire to spread.  (Id. at 1105.)  Because California’s robust and comprehensive fire liability scheme, set forth in Health & Saf. Code, § 13007 et seq., provided for compensation in the event of a fire accidentally spreading to adjoining property, there was no statutory gap to suggest that the Legislature might have intended additional remedies, and the historical context indicated that fire liability had been viewed as completely separate from other injuries to timber.  (Id.)  Scholes observed that the purpose of timber trespass statutes like §733 was to “to educate blunderers (persons who mistake location of boundary lines) and to discourage rogues (persons who ignore boundary lines), to protect timber from being cut by others than the owner.”  (Id. at 1110.)  Scholes said nothing about §733 being limited to the misappropriation of timber for commercial purposes. Treble/Punitive Damages  Defendants next argue that Plaintiff cannot seek both treble damages under Code Civ. Proc. §733 and punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3346 in her complaint.  The Court disagrees. An award of treble damages for the cutting of, injury to or removal of timber is authorized by two code sections: section 733 of the Code of Civil Procedure and section 3346 of the Civil Code.  To warrant an award of treble damages, it must be established that the wrongful act was willful and malicious. (Caldwell v. Walker (1963) 211 Cal. App. 2d 758, 762.)  If the purpose of the penalty is the same as that of punitive damages, however, the plaintiff cannot obtain a double recovery and must elect to have judgment entered in an amount that reflects either the statutory trebling or the compensatory and punitive damages. (Turnbull & Turnbull v. ARA Transp., Inc. (1990) 219 Cal. App. 3d 811, 826.)  Here, due to the penal nature of the statute, the requirements for awarding damages for the wrongful destruction or injury to timber are equivalent to those for punitive damages. Therefore, Plaintiff cannot obtain both treble damages and punitive damages.  Plaintiff must elect to have judgment entered reflecting either treble compensatory damages under California Code of Civil Procedure §733 or compensatory and punitive damages under California Civil Code §3294 for her malicious damage to property claim. (Hassoldt v. Patrick Media Group, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 153, 169.)  However, this is the pleading stage, and Plaintiff can claim punitive damages and treble damages in the alternative.  (Gray v. Bui (Jan. 31, 2017) 2017 Cal. Super. LEXIS 21900 at *4 (even if, as the defendants assert, plaintiff cannot recover both treble damages and punitive damages on the Sixth Cause of Action, this does not preclude pleading in the alternative.”).) Irrelevant Allegations Defendants also argue that certain allegations in Paragraph 29 of SAC do not relate to the malicious damage claim and should be stricken.  The Court agrees. Paragraph 29 provides: “Defendants, and each of them, had both actual and construction [sic] knowledge of the location of the boundary line between the Property and the Adjacent Property. In doing the things herein alleged, including making demands upon Plaintiff to lower the Ficus hedge in May 2021, in altering the front portion of Plaintiff’s Property in August 2023 and in entering and cutting and damaging Plaintiff’s Ficus hedge on December 6, 2023, and in “lollipopping” the trees in September 2024, the Defendants acted with fraud, oppression and malice and in a manner that justifies the imposition of exemplary damages to punish Defendants for their conduct in accordance with California Civil Code § 3294, et seq.”  The inclusion of allegations regarding the demand to lower the Ficus hedge in May 2021, and alteration of the front portion of Plaintiff’s property in August 2023 should not be included under the cause of action for Malicious Damage to Real Property, as the alleged incidents do not fall within the scope of California Code of Civil Procedure §733. Specifically, neither the allegations regarding the demand to lower the Ficus hedge nor the alleged alteration to the “36 square foot patch” front portion of her property qualify as willful or malicious injury to trees or timber under California Code of Civil Procedure §733. Therefore, these allegations will be stricken. Investigation Expenses Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot recover expenses associated with investigative reports because they are not directly related to the tortious conduct and are merely incidental or unrelated.  California Civil Code §3333 states: “For the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, the measure of damages, except where otherwise expressly provided by this Code, is the amount which will compensate for all the detriment proximately caused thereby, whether it could have been anticipated or not.” Pursuant to California Civil Code §3333, Plaintiff is limited to recovering damages for expenses that are a proximate result of Defendants’ tortious conduct. These expenses must be directly related to the tortious conduct and not merely incidental or unrelated.  Merely incidental expenses are those costs that are incurred as a part of the general process of investigating whether any harm has occurred. These expenses are not directly tied to mitigating or reversing the alleged harm caused by Defendants’ actions. On the other hand, directly related expenses are those costs that are incurred as a direct result of Defendants’ wrongful actions and are aimed at mitigating or reversing the harm caused. These expenses are recoverable as damages.  For instance, in Stearman v. Centex Homes (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 611, the court allowed plaintiffs to recover expert costs incurred to investigate and formulate a repair plan for construction defects, as these expenses were directly related to addressing the harm caused by the defendant's actions. Here, Plaintiff seeks recovery for costs associated with investigative reports. However, these reports serve no role in actively addressing, mitigating or repairing any alleged damage caused by Defendants. Instead, the reports are aimed at identifying the existence or extent of the alleged harm or to support Plaintiff’s legal claims. Such general investigatory expenses are standard costs often incurred as part of preparing a claim and fail to meet the threshold for incidental damages. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for “expenses associated with investigative reports” in Paragraphs 27 and 33 of the Verified Second Amended Complaint must be stricken as it is an improper remedy and not in conformity with California law.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion to strike without leave to amend.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: January 9, 2025    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  