 Case Number:  23SMCV01274    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   PRIMARY HOME IMPROVEMENT & DESIGN, INC. dba PRIMARY HOMES,  Plaintiff, v.  CHRISTIE CARR, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV01274     Hearing Date:  January 9, 2025   [TENTATIVE] order RE:    CROSS-COMPLAINANT'S MOTION FOR     LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT        BACKGROUND This case arises from a dispute between a homeowner and her general contractor.  The homeowner (Christie Carr) is alleging construction defects while the general contractor (Primary Home Improvement & Design, Inc.) is alleging non-payment.   Carr owns real property located in Malibu, California (the “Property”).  In 2020, Carr entered into a contract with Primary Homes to build a 4,500 square foot home at the Property (the “Contract”).  In January 2023, Carr gave Primary a notice to suspend work.  An inspection purportedly revealed construction defects related to the balcony at the home constructed on the Property—including drywall and waterproofing issues.  Carr then hired another contractor to repair the alleged defects. In March 2023, Primary filed a lawsuit against Carr.  Primary alleges that Carr failed to make payments due and owing under the Contract for work performed by Primary at the Property.   In May 2023, Carr filed a cross-complaint against Primary and Roes 1-10.  In the cross-complaint, Carr alleges that Primary breached the contract and the covenant of good faith and fair dealing by performing substandard work at the Property.  Primary filed an answer to the Cross-Complaint, asserting affirmative defenses based on intervening or superseding causes and causation of damages by third parties alleged to bar and/or diminish Cross-Complainant's damages.   In March 2024, Primary produced a list of subcontractors and contracts with subcontractors who provided work and/or materials to the construction site.  There were more than 25 subcontractors listed, many with inaccurate names and without current addresses or contact information.  As a result, Carr had to investigate the work performed and locate current information.  On July 30, 2024, Carr filed 10 amendments to the Cross-Complaint for the Roe 1-10 cross defendants, but another 19 cross-defendants remained to be added, whose identities or contact information Carr did not discover until November 2024.   This hearing is on Carr’s motion for leave to amend complaint.  Carr seeks leave to add 29 designated defendants who were subcontractors working under the supervision of Primary and whose identities or contact information Carr only recently discovered, two supporting causes of action (negligence and third party beneficiary), a supporting jurisdictional allegation for compliance with Code Civ. Proc. § 411.35 (certificate of merit), and an additional cause of action (fraud) against Primary based on newly discovered evidence that Primary failed to install plumbing systems required by the original contract, and instead used cheap materials that created a high risk of water leakage over time, with the further highly likely result of bacterial, toxic and mold infestations.   LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1), provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ Under California Rules of Court Rule, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (a),¿a motion to amend a pleading shall:¿ (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;¿ (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and¿ (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿¿ ¿ In addition, under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b),¿a¿separate declaration¿must accompany the motion and must specify:¿¿ (1) the effect of the amendment;¿ (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;¿ (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and¿ (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ ¿¿ The Court’s discretion to grant leave “should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the Court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿¿The Court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿ DISCUSSION Carr has not filed a declaration in compliance with CRC Rule 3.1324.  Under the Rule, a motion to amend must include a supporting declaration consistent with Rule 3.1324(b)(1-4). In particular, the separate declaration must specify the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  While the Court may be able to determine some of this information from the moving papers, the requirements in CRC Rule 3.1324 are mandatory, and the Court will not grant a motion for leave to amend unless the moving party has complied with all mandatory requirements.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Cross-Complainant's motion for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: January 9, 2025     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 