  Case Number:  22TRCV00525    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 29, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00525
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sikder Holding International, Inc., et al.
v. Michael Ball, et al.        
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Sikder Holdings International, Inc., a California
corporation; R&R Beverages Group PTE, LTD., a Singapore Limited Company,
Lisa Haque, an individual, and Nasim Sikder
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Michael Ball, et al. (No Opposition) 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                         May 28, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave
to File Second Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
 
¿¿ 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiffs, Sikder Holdings
International, Inc, R&R Beverages Group PTE, LTD, Lisa Haque, and Nasim
Sikder filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael Ball, Marsha NA Nongkhai,
aka Asha Kai, Ultracor, inc., and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty
(CWater); (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Denim Technologies); (4)
Fraud/Concealment; (5) Conversion; and (6) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On October 23, 2023, this Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Continue Trial to May 17, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs now file a Motion for Leave to File FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Leave to
File First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.     Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
move for an order allowing them to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The
reasoning Plaintiffs have presented for this filing is that Plaintiffs have
aggressively pursued additional information regarding Defendant, Ultracor, Inc.
Since mid-2022, Plaintiffs outline numerous roadblocks that have halted their
ability to amend and update their Complaint including: (1) failure of Ultracor
to respond to discovery; (2) Ultracor being in contempt of court orders; (3)
Ultracor not responding to noticed depositions and their PMQ not showing up;
(4) Ultracor’s principal, Nongkhai failing to appear at either of her noticed
depositions; and (5) objections to subpoenas to chase bank records by Nongkhai
despite her non-appearance in discovery matters. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiffs note that their proposed FAC disposes of their breach of contract
and breach of fiduciary claims against defendant, and reduces the causes of
action from six to three. This Court notes that although it granted Plaintiffs’
previous motion to enforce the subpoena against Ultracor’s Chase Bank records
on January 2, 2024, and that Chase Bank has also previously produced 3,189
pages of bank records, that much of this discovery, like the propounded
discovery requests to Ultracor, and the PMQ depositions have not been resolved
entirely. Because of this, the Court notes that it is unsure if Plaintiffs will
be continuously requesting Motion for Leave to file an amended pleading along
with a motion to continue trial. Counsel for Plaintiffs in this case, and in
the related case, just requested this Court continue trial based on the trial
date in this case, as such, the Court wants to ensure that Plaintiffs do not
think another continued trial, in both cases, is necessary. 
            Further,
the Court requests information on whether Ultracor’s principal, Nongkhai
attended her deposition on January 17, 2024. If Plaintiffs contend that after
this motion, they will have enough evidence to move forward with their May
trial date, the Court is inclined to GRANT this motion. 
            
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs are permitted to file a First Amended
Complaint. 
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice. 
 