  Case Number:  24STCV16073    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Kellee Murayama,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV16073




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Yoon Young Lee, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 7, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendant Sang Jun Jin
Responding Party: Plaintiff Kellee Murayama
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
             
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff Kellee
Murayama sued Defendants Yoong Young Lee, Eugene Lee and Sang Jun Jin,
asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; and (2) breach of fiduciary
duty. Plaintiff, the owner of a condominium unit in a building managed by
Defendants, alleges Defendants improperly allowed another unit’s occupant to
hoard dead and live cats, causing Plaintiff’s tenant to move out of the
building.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant Sang Jun Jin demurs to the
complaint on the ground that Defendant does not owe Plaintiff a duty of care or
a fiduciary duty. Defendant asserts that he, as a property manager acting on
behalf of the Homeowner’s Association, owes a duty to the Homeowner’s
Association, but not to Plaintiff as an individual member of the association. In
support, Defendant cites the federal case Teledyne
Industries, Inc. v. Eon Corporation (S.D.N.Y.1975)
401 F.Supp. 729, 736–737, stating “[A]n officer or director will not be liable
for torts in which he does not personally participate, of which he has no
knowledge, or to which he has not consented.... While the corporation itself
may be liable for such acts, the individual officer or director will be immune
unless he authorizes, directs, or in some meaningful sense actively
participates in the wrongful conduct.”
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty to uphold the HOA
CC&Rs and to maintain the habitability of the units. This is sufficient to
allege the existence of a duty. Plaintiff alleges Defendant was notified of the
conditions of the neighboring unit and failed to remedy the conditions. This is
sufficient to allege that Defendant, as an individual, breached that duty. While
the Association also may have a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff, Defendant has not
shown that he individually has no duty.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 