 Case Number:  22STCV28035    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/19/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28035 CAMERON S. AZIMI
vs JONAH KYLE MARTIN, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Jonah Martin and
Constance Martin
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS
GRANTED.
 
On August 29, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case. On February 15, 2024, Defendants Jonah Martin
and Constance Martin filed their answers. The trial is currently set for
November 1, 2024. Defendants move the court for a continuance to March 2025 to
allow more time to conduct discovery.
The court finds good
cause to continue the trial. The parties have had approximately six months to
conduct discovery, and the need for additional time is understandable.
Furthermore, there was no prior continuance, and no opposition was filed by
Plaintiff alleging prejudice. The request is also made ahead of the November
trial date, and not at the eleventh hour. The court grants Defendants' motion.
The new Trial Date is
set for March _____ 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to March _____ 2025, at
10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines will follow the new trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 