 Case Number:  23STCV02001    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DISMISS AND MOTIONS TO COMPEL
INITIAL RESPONSES
Hearing Date: 9/19/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV02001 BRYSON PHINALI
ARRINGTON vs SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANY et al.
Moving Party: Defendant SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
GAS COMPANY 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DISMISS IS DENIED;
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES ARE
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
 
Background
 
On June 9, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging a natural gas explosion that occurred
on February 1, 2021, in Los Angeles, California. On May 13, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel, and Plaintiff
has since been appearing in the case pro per. On May 16, 2024, Defendant
SoCalGas served its Form Interrogatories (Set No. Two), Special Interrogatories
(Set No. Two), Requests for Admission (Set No. One), and Requests for
Production of Documents (Set No. Two) to Plaintiff. On July 10, 2024, Defendant
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding outstanding discovery
responses and gave Plaintiff an extension to provide the outstanding discovery
responses by July 19, 2024. As of July 31, 2024, SoCalGas has not received
discovery responses and now moves to dismiss (the Court presumes, though the
motion does not specifically reference “terminating sanctions,” that the motion
to dismiss is effectively a request for terminating sanctions, or, in the
alternative, to compel discovery responses.
Terminating Sanctions
A terminating sanction
is a “drastic measure which should be employed with caution.” (Deyo, 84
Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279-280.) Terminating sanctions are premature here, as there has not been
any violation of a court order, thus no history of abuse exists. 
Motions To Compel Initial Responses
Although
the Court declines to impose terminating sanctions,  the Court finds it appropriate to grant
Defendant’s motion to compel. As a preliminary matter, the Court will note that
the format and content of the motion leave much to be desired, as it did not
cite any statute or case law as grounds to compel initial responses. However,
motions to compel initial responses are fairly straightforward, and the grounds
of the motion are evidenced by the timeline provided by Defendant and
Plaintiff’s failure to serve discovery responses as stated in defense counsel’s
declaration attached to the present motion. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
1.  Requests for Production and Interrogatories
 
A defendant may make a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time.
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd.
(a).) A plaintiff may make a demand for production of documents and propound
interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after the service of
the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed,
whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).)
A plaintiff may make a demand for
production of documents and propound interrogatories without leave of court at
any time 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.020, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for
production of documents is not limited by number, but the request must comply
with the formatting requirements in Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030. A party
may propound 35 specially prepared interrogatories that are relevant to the
subject matter of the pending action and any additional number of official form
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.030, subd. (a)(1) - (a)(2).)       
      
The party whom the request is
propounded upon is required to respond within 30 days after service of a
demand, but the parties are allowed to informally agree to an extension and
confirm any such agreement in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270, subd. (a)
- (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.270, subd. (a) - (b).)
 
If a party fails to timely respond to a request for
production or interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives
any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.230, and waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The party
propounding the discovery requests may move for an order compelling responses.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).) Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to compel initial discovery responses does not
have any meet and confer requirements.
 
2.  Request
for Admissions
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  CCP § 2033.010.  “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”  CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). A motion to deem RFA admitted does
not have any meet and confer requirements.
 
Discussion
 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff did not timely respond to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories (Set No. Two), Special Interrogatories (Set No. Two), Requests
for Admission (Set No. One), and Requests for Production of Documents (Set No.
Two). Plaintiff did not file an opposition or any filings indicating to the
Court that the responses at issue have been served. Thus, the Defendant’s
motions to compel responses to Form and Special Interrogatories and Requests
for Production of Documents are granted. Plaintiff is hereby ordered to serve
verified and complete responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Set No.
Two), Special Interrogatories (Set No. Two), and Requests for Production of
Documents (Set No. Two) without objections within 20 days of today. 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request to compel regarding Defendant’s Requests for
Admission (Set No. One).  Nowhere in the
motion does Defendant indicate it is seeking to have the RFA deemed admitted,
and the CCP does not provide for an order to compel responses to an RFA.  (Again, the Court notes that the format and
content of the motion leave much to be desired).
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 