 Case Number:  23STCV18819    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
DEMURRER
Hearing Date: 9/19/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV18819 ALEJANDRA
QUINTERO vs PERCH RESTAURANT, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
Background
On August 8, 2023,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Perch Restaurant, Pershing
Square Downtown LA; Citrus Hospitality Management; JMF Pershing Square LLC; JMF
Enterprise LLC; JMF Enterprises V LLC; and DOES 1 through 100, alleging three
causes of action: (1) general negligence, (2) premises liability, and (3)
products liability. Plaintiff alleges she incurred injuries at Defendants’
restaurant after encountering a conduit or piping for an outdoor patio heater. 
On February 2, 2024,
the Court sustained Defendants' demurrer with leave to amend as to Plaintiff's
third cause of action for product liability. In reaching its decision, the
Court recognized California’s strict products liability precedents which have established
"a bright-line legal distinction" that imposes liability only on
entities responsible for introducing an injury-producing product into the
stream of commerce. (Taylor v. Elliott Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 564, 576.)
The Supreme Court of
California concluded that it would be improper to impose strict liability on
the hotel proprietor for injuries caused by an alleged defect in hotel premises
that the proprietor did not build or market. (Peterson v. Superior Court
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185 ,1188.) The Court further explained that “although many
potentially defective products are used in hotel or restaurant setting, the
mere circumstance that it was contemplated customers of these businesses would
use the products ... or be benefited by them does not transform the owners of
the business into the equivalent of retailers of the products. [Citation]” (Id.,
at pp. 1199-1200.) “The mere foreseeability of injury to users of a defective
product was not sufficient justification for imposing strict liability outside
the stream of commerce.” (O’Neil v. Crane Co., (2012) 53 Cal.4th 335,
349.)
Furthermore, the Court
held that in attempting to meet the pleading requirements for a product
liability case, Plaintiff made several allegations, such as "Defendants
placed the item in the stream of commerce" or "Defendant manufactured
and installed component parts which were incorporated into the final product
and were also defective." However, the Court found these to be legal
conclusions and not to be considered by the Court.
On February 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint. Pershing Hill LLC, doing business
as Perch and erroneously sued as Perch Restaurant; JMF Enterprises V LLC; JMF
Pershing Square LLC; and Citrus LLC, erroneously sued as Citrus Hospitality Management
("Defendants"), now demur to the product liability cause of action in
the second amended complaint (SAC). Based on a side-by-side comparison of the
FAC and the SAC, the Court determined that the only new information pled in the
SAC is as follows:
“Defendants, and each
of them, are the owners of multiple restaurants. They are also the builder of
restaurants (i.e., construct the restaurants and "build them out from
scratch". As an owner/ builder of multiple restaurants, they participated
in and conducted the design, construction, and building of the subject
restaurant, as well as multiple other restaurants. After designing,
constructing, building the restaurant, Defendants leased the property for use
to their other codefendants, whom are alleged to be alter-egos of each other.
As a builder engaged in the business of constructing (i.e., manufacturing), as
well as leasing properties to each other, products liability attaches.”
“Additionally, with
regards to the product alleged to be defective in this Complaint, Defendants,
and each of them, rebuilt, repurposed, rewired, redesigned, reconstructed, and
reconditioned the product, thus assuming the role analogous to that of a manufacturer.”
Discussion
On February 2, 2024,
the Court found that the First Amended Complaint (FAC) did not allege that
Plaintiff was responsible for making or marketing the defective product, and
merely because customers would use the products or benefit from them does not
transform the owners of the business into retailers of the products, or part of
the stream of commerce  per the
bright-line rule under Taylor v. Elliott Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 564, 576, where liability is imposed only on those entities responsible
for placing an injury-producing product into the stream of commerce. In the
SAC, Plaintiff attempts to circumvent the issue that Defendant did not make or
market the product at issue, by alleging that “Defendants, and each of them,
rebuilt, repurposed, rewired, redesigned, reconstructed, and reconditioned the
product, thus assuming a role analogous to that of a manufacturer.”  The Court first notes that Defendants were
previously found not to be within the stream of commerce as to the original unmodified
product. Plaintiff’s new theory seems to be that Defendants reconstructed or
created a new defective product. However, Plaintiff failed to allege facts that
this newly reconstructed product was put into the stream of commerce. Although
Plaintiff made conclusory statements in the SAC such as "Defendants placed
the item in the stream of commerce," these were the same statements made
in the FAC that the Court, on February 2, 2024, already determined to be legal
conclusions. In what has been newly alleged in the SAC, there is no factual
allegation that this newly reconstructed product was part of a distribution
chain. No distributors, retailers or consumers are identified, nor was it
alleged that this modified product is being sold to consumers. All that is
alleged seems to be that the product was used by the Defendants in their own
restaurants, which Plaintiff alleges are alter egos of each other.
The Court in O'Neil
v. Crane Co. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 335, 349, emphasized that strict products
liability should be imposed only on those entities responsible for placing a
defective product into the stream of commerce. This is the crucial distinction
between the present case and Kriegler v. Eichler Homes, Inc. (1969) 269
Cal.App.2d 224, a case that Plaintiff heavily relies on. In Kriegler,
the defendant was involved in the mass production of homes that were placed
within a commercial distribution chain, with the houses ultimately sold to
consumers. Here, Defendants are not within the stream of commerce for the
original product as the Court has previously ruled. After the product's
reconstruction, there are no allegations—other than those that the Court ruled
were legal conclusions—of any distribution chain, stream of commerce, or
customers to whom this newly reconstructed product could be sold to. 
This is Plaintiff's
third complaint, and Plaintiff has had ample opportunity to comply with the
pleading standards. Also, from the facts alleged, it does not appear that
further amendments can cure the defect. Should Plaintiff, during discovery,
discover facts that demonstrate Defendant was manufacturing this heater,
placing it in a chain of distribution, and selling it to consumers, the Court
may then consider Plaintiff's request to amend the complaint. As of now, the
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 