  Case Number:  20STCV28515    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL
Hearing Date: 9/19/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV28515 BERTHA GONZALEZ
NUNEZ vs JOSE ALFARO et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL IS
GRANTED 
 
On April 30,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear at the hearing due to technological
issues. Plaintiff had arranged for coverage, and the retained counsel intended
to appear remotely. However, on the day of the hearing, counsel was placed in
the "waiting room" by CourtConnect and waited for some time before
being disconnected. After unsuccessful attempts to reconnect, counsel called
the Court and was informed that the servers were down (Exhibit 2).
 
The Court
continued the hearing to June 26, 2024, but once again, neither Plaintiff nor
counsel appeared, leading to the dismissal of the action without prejudice.
Plaintiff alleges that the failure to appear was caused by excusable neglect,
specifically due to regrettable miscommunication within the team and the
failure to secure an attorney to cover the hearing. Plaintiff now moves the
court for mandatory relief of the dismissal based on counsel’s mistake or
neglect.
 
Section 473, subdivision (b) states in pertinent part: “The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.... Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
 
Section 473, subdivision (b),
provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under the discretionary
relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or his or her attorney. Under
the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” the court shall
vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.”  The range
of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted in the mandatory provision
is broader than that in the discretionary provision, and includes inexcusable
neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation results from which relief
can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only extends to vacating a default
which will result in the entry of a default judgment, a default judgment, or an
entered dismissal.”  (Leader v.
Health Industries of America, In (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616. Mandatory relief
applies here, as Plaintiff’s counsel has submitted a declaration attesting to
his mistake or neglect. The neglect, in the form of non-appearance, led to the
Court’s dismissal of the case. Dismissal is the type of court order that qualifies
for mandatory relief. Additionally, this motion was filed within six months of
the dismissal, which occurred in June 2024. All requirements for mandatory
relief have been met and the court GRANTS this motion.  The Court sets a non-appearance case review re default judgment for _____________. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 