 Case Number:  22STCV07704    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 9/19/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV07704 MARILYN
GOTTESMAN vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Background
On September 27, 2011, at approximately 8:30
a.m., Plaintiff Marilyn Gottesman tripped and fell due to a sidewalk
displacement located at 8124 Regis Way in Los Angeles. Defendant City of Los
Angeles moves the Court for summary judgment on the basis that the displacement
which caused Plaintiff to fall is a trivial defect.
 
Undisputed Facts 
On September 27, 2021,
at approximately 8:30 A.M., Plainitff tripped and fell on the sidewalk at/near
8124 Regis Way in Los Angeles. Plaintiff tripped and fell as a result of her
right foot hitting an uplift in the sidewalk. The day of her fall was the first
time that Plaintiff had walked on the side of the block where she fell.
Plaintiff was walking a dog (a Siberian husky) on a 5- to 6-foot-long leash.
The leash was in Plaintiff’s left hand and the dog was on Plaintiff’s left
side. Prior to the trip-and-fall accident, Plaintiff and her dog stopped about
5 to 6 feet from the uplift.  As
Plaintiff and her dog resumed the walk, Plaintiff scanned the area in front of
her but did not see the uplift. A red circle on Exhibit 2-3 to the transcript
of Plaintiff’s deposition depicts the area where Plaintiff tripped. At the
location of the Plaintiff’s accident, the sidewalk comprises concrete and
measures approximately 5 feet wide. The sidewalk was firm and did not have any
jagged or loose edges.  At the time of
the accident, there were no obstructions blocking Plaintiff’s view of the
sidewalk. The lighting conditions were sufficient for the uplift to have been
seen.
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts
must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
¿               The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)¿ 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court overrules Plaintiff’s Objections No. 1 and 2. The parties
did not make any other objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s
ruling, as per CCP § 437c(q).
 
Premises Liability 
 
The Trivial Defect Doctrine 
 
“Property owners are required to maintain land in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition and to use due care to
eliminate dangerous conditions on their property.  But a property owner is
not liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect on
its property.  The so-called ‘trivial defect doctrine’ recognizes that
persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to
maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.  The duty of care
imposed on a property owner, even one with actual notice, does not require the
repair of minor defects.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th
221, 226 [cleaned up].)  
 
“In limited circumstances a court may determine a
walkway defect is trivial as a matter of law.  Where reasonable minds can
reach only one conclusion—that there was no substantial risk of injury—the
issue is a question of law, properly resolved by way of summary judgment. 
But where sufficient evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds may
differ as to whether the defect is dangerous, summary judgment is
inappropriate.”  (Id. at p. 226.)   
   
California Courts have developed
two substantially similar tests to determine whether a sidewalk defect is
trivial, i.e., not dangerous, as a matter of law.  In Stathoulis v.
City of Montebello (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 559, 567-68, the Court of Appeal
set out a two-part test. “First, the court reviews evidence regarding the type and
size of the defect.  If that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial
defect, the court considers evidence of any additional factors such as the
weather, lighting and visibility conditions at the time of the accident, the
existence of debris or obstructions, and plaintiff’s knowledge of the
area.  If these additional factors do not indicate the defect was
sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person, the court should deem
the defect trivial as a matter of law ....” (See also Nunez v. City of Redondo
Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 758 [adopting two-step framework]; Huckey
v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105 [same].) 
 
More recently, in Stack v. City
of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110, the Court of Appeal read
Government Code section 830.2 to require a more “holistic” approach, stating,
“[a]lthough we agree with the premise that the size of the defect is the
primary determinant of triviality, as discussed below, we modify the prevailing
two-step framework into a holistic, multi-factor analysis.”  The Court
will follow Stack’s holistic approach, although the result would be the
same under either test.
 
1. Size of the Defect
 
“We begin with the most important
factor: the defect’s size.” (Stack, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 110 [cleaned
up].)  “Sidewalk elevations ranging from three-quarters of an inch to one
and one-half inches have generally been held trivial as a matter of law.” (Huckey,
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1107; see Stathoulis, supra, 164
Cal.App.4th at p. 568 [“Several decisions have found height differentials of up
to one and one-half inches trivial as a matter of law.”])  A more
“accurate encapsulation” of the law, according to Stack, is that “when
the size of the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch the courts
have been reluctant to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of
law, i.e., that it is minor or trivial.”  (Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 112.)  “That said, there is no firmly fixed arbitrary
measurement in inches below which a defect is trivial as a matter of law and
above which it becomes a question of fact whether or not the defect is
dangerous.  This is because a court should not rely solely upon the
size of the defect ... although the defect’s size ‘may be one of the most
relevant factors’ to the court’s decision.”  (Id. at pp. 112–113
[cleaned up].)
 
The
parties provide slightly different measurements of the height of the
displacement. Plaintiff’s expert measures it at 1 ¼ inches and Defendant’s
expert measures it at slightly over 1 inch. 
Upon
closer examination of the experts’ declarations, the Court finds that the
declarations are not actually in conflict with each other, as they measure
different sections of the displacement. Mr. Gsell, Plaintiff’s expert, measured
three sections of the displacement on the concrete slab, from the far right
side (IMG_7177), to the middle (IMG_7179), and approximately seven inches left
of the center slab (IMG_7182). The respective measurements were 1 ¼, ¾, and 5/8
inches (Gsell Decl. ¶ 8, 9). These measurements indicate that the displacement
is most pronounced on the right and lessens as one moves to the left of the
slab.
 
However, Plaintiff's argument that the displacement causing her fall measured 1
¼ inches is unsupported by her own expert’s findings and Plaintiff’s own
testimony.  Mr. Gsell's declaration does
not specify whether any of these measurements correspond to the exact location
where Plaintiff fell. He did not assert that the location of Plaintiff’s fall
was at the 1 ¼ inch displacement; rather, he provided measurements from three
disparate locations across the slab. No rationale was provided for choosing
these specific locations, other than to demonstrate the change in elevation
from right to left. This is further confirmed by an examination of IMG_7177,
showing that the measurement hugs the very edge of the concrete slab.
In her deposition,
Plaintiff testified that at the time of her trip-and-fall, she was walking
"towards the right side… middle to right side" of the sidewalk, and
she "circled" the approximate area on which she tripped and fell on a
photograph depicting the subject sidewalk condition (City’s Compendium of
Evidence, Ex. 3 – Transcript of Plaintiff’s Deposition, at transcript page
44:4-14; Ex. 6 – Blanchette Declaration, ¶ 6 and Ex. B). Plaintiff did not
testify that she tripped on the very right edge of the sidewalk where it
measures 1 ¼ inches in height.
On the other hand,
Defendant’s expert, Blanchette, accounted for Plaintiff's testimony that she
was walking from the middle to the right side of the sidewalk and measured the
displacement at the approximate location where Plaintiff's foot caught the displacement
(Blanchette Decl. ¶ 8). It shows a measurement slightly above one inch,
specifically 1.03125 inches, as Defendant clarified in their reply.
Although Plaintiff
argues that her expert measured the displacement in 2021 whereas Defendant’s
expert measured it in 2023, Blanchette has declared that the conditions are
substantially similar (Blanchette Decl. ¶ 6). Upon examination of both experts'
investigations, the Court finds that the conditions were substantially similar;
no work appears to have been performed on the displacement, nor has there been
any change. Furthermore, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence to suggest
that the displacement has shrunk, contrary to the common experience that
displacements typically grow over time.
Here, there is really
no contradictory testimony from the two experts. The measurements were taken at
different locations, with Plaintiff’s expert measuring the farthest right of
the slab while Defendant's expert took measurements to the left of that point.
Given the nature of the displacement, which is highest on the far right and
decreases as you move left, it is unsurprising that the two measurements
differ. Because Plaintiff’s expert did not state that the right edge is where
Plaintiff fell, and this is not supported by Plaintiff’s own testimony, the
Court finds that Defendant’s expert’s measurement, which takes into account
Plaintiff’s testimony, reflects the height of the displacement where Plaintiff
fell.
It is undisputed that the sidewalk
pavement displacement in question here was 1and 1/4 inch at its highest point,
tapering off in height towards the right. (City’s Exh. H, I, J.) Considering
the size of the defect alone, without any aggravating factors, the displacement
is trivial even at its highest point and is even less of an issue at the place
where Plaintiff tripped.  The Court finds
the size of the displacement to be about 1 inch. 
 
2.  Aggravating Factors 
 
The Court next considers additional factors. 
“Beyond size, additional factors courts typically consider in assessing a
sidewalk condition’s triviality as a matter of law are: the nature and quality
of the defect (including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks); whether
anything was obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an object,
debris, or other substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of
the incident; whether the defect has caused other accidents; and plaintiff's
familiarity with the area.”  (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th
at p. 115.)   
 
At
the time of the accident, there were no obstructions blocking Plaintiff’s view
of the sidewalk (Def's Ex. 3 - Gottesman Dep., at 35:13-16, 35:20-36:5). At the
time of Plaintiff’s fall, the lighting conditions were more than sufficient for
the uplift to have been seen and avoided (Def's Ex. 6 - Blanchette Dec ¶ 7).
The subject sidewalk condition is firm, stable, and does not have any jagged,
loose edges (Def's Ex. 6 - Blanchette Dec ¶ 8). The City did not receive any
notifications, complaints, or requests for sidewalk repair at/near 8124 Regis
Way, Los Angeles prior to Plaintiff’s alleged September 27, 2021 accident
(Def's Ex. 7 – Declaration of Glenn Lacoure ¶ 4; see also, Def's Ex. 4 – City’s
Special Interrogatories to Plaintiff, Set One, at Interrogatory Nos. 7-9; Def's
Ex. 5 – Plaintiff’s Responses to City’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, at
Responses to Interrogatory Nos. 7-9).
Although
Plaintiff argues that the displacement must be assessed holistically, she
either does not dispute the presence of aggravating factors or has failed to
present substantial evidence of such factors. First, Plaintiff does not dispute
that there were no obstructions blocking her view of the sidewalk at the time
of the accident (Plf’s Response to UMF 12). Plaintiff also does not contend
that lighting or visibility was an issue (Plf’s Response to UMF 13). Both Mr.
Blanchette’s and Mr. Gsell’s photographs from their inspections show that there
is no debris, plants, or roots covering the sidewalk; there are no jagged or
loose edges, and the sidewalk appears to be stable. No contrary evidence has
been provided, nor is there any evidence that another individual fell at the
same spot.
As
for Plaintiff’s familiarity with the sidewalk, she had walked in the
neighborhood where she fell twice a day since 2017, but she had not previously
walked on the side of the street where the incident occurred. This information
is supported by evidence in Defendant’s Compendium, Ex. 3 – Gottesman Dep., at
25:13-15; 26:2-9; 25:16-19. This factor is considered neutral.
Overall,
the court finds the displacement is question measures at just very slightly
above 1 inch, and there were no aggravating factors. Thus, the motion for
summary judgment is granted, as the Court finds the sidewalk displacement to be
trivial.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time,
counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 