 Case Number:  21STCV31561    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27  MOTION FOR SANCTIONS¿ Hearing Date: 9/19/24¿ CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV31561 KEVIN JOSHUA ROGOFF et al. vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY et al. Moving Party: Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority and Marcelino Efrocino Cipriano Barrozo Responding Party: Plaintiff¿Kevin Rogoff Notice: Sufficient¿ Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS¿IS GRANTED  On August 26, 2021, Plaintiffs Kevin Joshua Rogoff, Fanny Valenzuela, Nefretiri Rogoff and Judith Rogoff filed the instant action for negligence and motor vehicle negligence against, among others, Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority and Marcelino Efrocino Cipriano Barrozo (collectively referred to herein as “Defendants”). On October 17, 2023, Defendants’ counsel personally served Plaintiffs’ counsel with a Notice of Demand for an Independent Medical Examination (IME) of Kevin Rogoff, scheduled for November 16, 2023. The notice specified that “any continuance or cancellation of this examination must be received no later than 48 hours prior to the examination date” and that “failure to provide such notice will render Plaintiff responsible for any fees charged due to late cancellation.” On November 14, 2023, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel to confirm that the IMEs were proceeding as scheduled for November 16, 2023. On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel responded, claiming non-receipt of the IME demands and stating that Plaintiff Kevin Rogoff would not be able to attend. As a result, Defendants incurred a $1,500 late cancellation fee for his nonappearance at the IME with Dr. Nelson. (Exhibit 3.) On November 15, 2023, Defendants’ counsel sent a meet-and-confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting reimbursement for the cancellation fee charged by Dr. Nelson. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to respond to this meet-and-confer attempt. On May 22, 2024, Kevin Rogoff was ordered to attend a second IME for his right hip on May 28, 2024, with Dr. Nelson. However, on May 28, 2024, Mr. Rogoff failed to appear for the court-ordered IME. Neither Mr. Rogoff nor his attorney’s office provided any notice to Defendants. Defendants were informed of Mr. Rogoff’s failure to appear by Dr. Nelson’s office, and another $1,500 no-show fee was incurred. (Exhibit 9.) Defendants’ counsel made multiple attempts, through emails and meet-and-confer efforts, to seek reimbursement from Plaintiffs’ counsel for the cancellation fees resulting from Plaintiff’s non-appearance and late cancellation. Plaintiffs’ counsel did not respond to any of these attempts. Defendants now move the Court for sanctions against Plaintiff Kevin Rogoff and his counsel, in the amount of $3,960. Plaintiff argues that this motion should be denied because it contains a typographical error, referring to “Nefretiri Rogoff” instead of the correct name, “Kevin Rogoff,” in the notice of the motion. However, this is a minor error, as the motion and caption clearly identify the sanctions as being sought against Kevin Rogoff. Moreover, it is well-settled that the appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and opposition to the motion on its merits constitutes a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of motion. (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.) Defendant contested the motion on its merits, thereby waiving any notice defects. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not dispute the sequence of events presented by Defendants but requests that sanctions not be imposed because Plaintiffs’ counsel lost contact with Plaintiff regarding the second IME. However, despite losing contact with Plaintiff, Plaintiffs’ counsel did not communicate this to Defendants’ counsel 48 hours before the IME to potentially reschedule the IME and avoid incurring cancellation fees. Plaintiff’s counsel also did not substantively respond to Defendants meet and confer attempts after the IME inquiring into the reason for Mr. Rogoff’s nonappearance.  Plaintiff did not present any argument in the opposition regarding the late cancellation of the first IME. Plaintiff also failed to provide any justification for not giving the 48-hour notice before the IME date to avoid cancellation fees, as stated in the notice. The Court does not find the imposition of sanctions unjust. Plaintiff further argues that the $3,000 cancellation fee is unreasonable and unsupported. However, Defendant has provided invoices from Dr. Nelson, showing that $1,500 was charged for each cancellation (Exhibits 3, 9). It is reasonable and common for a doctor to charge such fees for either a no-show or a last-minute cancellation, and the Court finds the amount of sanctions reasonable and substantiated. Moreover, Defendant has made multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the cancellation fees, as evidenced by Exhibits 4, 6, and 8, but received no responses. Consequently, Defendant had to file this motion to recover the cancellation fees.  The Court finds that sanctions in the amount of $3,000 for the cancellation fees are appropriate based on Plaintiff’s late cancellations, failure to appear at the scheduled IME, failure to provide timely communication to avoid the cancellation fees, and the lack of response to Defendants' meet-and-confer efforts. While Plaintiff is correct that sanctions are not intended to punish a party, in this case, the $3,000 sanctions are not to punish but to reimburse Defendant for the cancellation fees incurred due to Plaintiff's nonappearance and late cancellations. Additionally, the $960 sanction is to compensate Defendant for attorney’s fees incurred in seeking recovery of the cancellation fees. Plaintiff could have avoided this motion by responding to Defendant’s counsel's numerous meet and confer attempts, but failed to do so over a long period of time. The Court thus orders sanctions in the amount of $3,960 against Plaintiff and his attorney, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 20 days from today. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.  