 Case Number:  22STCV08055    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/19/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV08055 AN DO, et al. vs
MARTA E. MELENDEZ, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants MARTA E.
MELENDEZ and RODOLFO ORTIZ
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES
AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
On January 25, 2024,
Defendants MARTA E. MELENDEZ and RODOLFO ORTIZ served Special Interrogatories,
Set No. 1, Request for Production of Documents (RFP), Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff. Responses to these discovery requests
were due on February 24, 2024. As of August 2024, Plaintiff has failed to
provide responses to Defendants’ discovery requests. Defendants now move the
court to compel initial discovery responses.
It undisputed that
Plaintiff did not provide the discovery responses at issue prior to the
statutory deadline. Plaintiff did not file an opposition or any document
indicating that the discovery responses at issue were served prior to the
hearing. Thus, the motions are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide
complete and verified responses to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories, Set No.
1, RFP Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One without objections within 20
days of today.
Furthermore, sanctions
are mandatory, and the court does not find Plaintiff to have acted with
substantial justification. Defendants request sanctions in the amount of $810
in attorney fees per motion. The court reduces the sanction to $1,500 for all
three motions given the simplicity and duplicity of the issues and the lack of
objections. Sanctions in the amount of $1,500 are ordered against Plaintiff and
his/her counsel, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 20 days of
today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.