 Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S.
Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR COSTS
AND ATTORNEY’S FEES
Hearing Date:
9/19/24 
CASE NO./NAME:
21STCV04367 EDWIN SARGENTI vs CITY OF LONG BEACH, et al. 
Moving Party:
Defendant City of Long Beach
Responding Party:
Plaintiff 
Notice:
Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION
FOR COSTS AND ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED
 
Background
The
action stems from Plaintiff Edwin Sargenti’s fall while operating a Lime
electric scooter on a City of Long Beach sidewalk after entering into a Lime
user agreement. The City is designated as a third-party beneficiary of this
Agreement. On May 14, 2024, the Court granted Defendant City of Long Beach’s
Motion for Summary Judgment against Plaintiff. Defendant served the Notice of
Entry of Judgment on July 5, 2024. On August 6, 2024, Defendant moved the court
to award it $54,708.06 in costs and $329,208.75 in attorney’s fees, pursuant to
the indemnity clause of the agreement and Code of Civil Procedure § 1032(b).
Costs
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1032 establishes that a defendant dismissed from an
action is a prevailing party and, as a matter of right, is entitled to recover
costs in any action or proceeding unless a statute specifically states
otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) A defendant is considered
the "prevailing party" whether the dismissal is voluntary or
involuntary. (Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 606.)
Furthermore, a defendant is entitled to costs whether the dismissal is with or
without prejudice. (Cano v. Glover (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 331.)  
A
prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs
within 15 days after the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment or
dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5, or the date
of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or within 180
days after entry of judgment, whichever is earlier. The memorandum of costs
must be verified through a statement from the party, attorney, or agent
certifying that, to the best of their knowledge, the listed costs are correct
and were necessarily incurred in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(a)(1).)
Defendant
references Rule 3.1702 to support the contention that this statute allows for
the filing of a motion for costs; however, Rule 3.1702 does not govern the
deadline for filing a memorandum of costs. Rule 3.1702, titled "CLAIMING
ATTORNEY'S FEES," specifies in subdivision (a), "Application,"
that the rule applies in civil cases to claims for statutory attorney's fees
and contractual attorney's fees, unless otherwise provided by statute. Neither
subdivision (b) nor (c) of Rule 3.1702 mentions a memorandum of costs. The only
mention of a memorandum of costs in Rule 3.1702 is in subdivision (e),
"Attorney's fees fixed by formula," which states that if a party is
entitled to statutory or contractual attorney's fees that are predetermined
without court intervention, those fees must be claimed in the memorandum of
costs. This provision facilitates the claiming of attorney's fees through the
memorandum of costs when the fees are fixed. 
This
specific provision is irrelevant here as the attorney fees in question are not
fixed by a formula or a predetermined amount.
Rules
3.1700 and 3.1702 establish distinct procedures for asserting and contesting
claims within their respective scopes. Rule 3.1700 imposes relatively brief
periods for the filing of a memorandum of costs and motions to tax costs,
whereas Rule 3.1702 provides a more extended period for filing motions for
attorney's fees in unlimited civil actions. Conflicts between Rules 3.1700 and
3.1702 concerning attorney’s fees are resolved in favor of Rule 3.1702 because
it is deemed specific relative to the general nature of Rule 3.1700. In such
cases, the specific rule prevails unless a contrary intention is clearly
evident. (Kaufman v. Diskeeper Corp., (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1, 9.)
Kaufman,
as relied upon by Defendant, does not substantiate the position that a motion
to tax costs, which is subject to a 15-day deadline, can be filed concurrently
with a motion for attorney fees under a 60-day deadline. Defendant has not
contested this point in the reply. Consequently, the relevant deadline for
claiming costs is 15 days after Defendant served the Notice of Entry of
Judgment, in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a)(1). The time
provisions for filing a memorandum of costs are mandatory. (Sanabria v.
Embrey (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 422, 426.) Therefore, Defendant's request for
costs is untimely and is denied.
Attorney’s Fees
Defendant
relies on sections 1.4.7, 1.8, 1.15, and 8.1 of the user agreement between Lyft
and Plaintiff for the recovery of City of Long Beach's attorney fees incurred
in this matter. The Court notes that these provisions in the contract are
indemnification and assumption of risk clauses, and not attorney fees
provisions where the prevailing party can collect attorney fees. Defendant is
attempting to collect attorney fees pursuant to the indemnity and assumption of
risk provisions in the agreement.
The
Court will analyze each provision in turn:
Section
1.4.7. Indemnification. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and
without limiting Your indemnification obligations set forth in Section 8 of
this Agreement, You agree to indemnify and hold harmless Lime from any tickets,
citations, fines, penalties and administrative fees incurred as a result of
Your use of a Vehicle, and any and all consequences, claims, demands, causes of
action, losses, liabilities, damages, injuries, fees, costs and expenses,
penalties, attorneys’ fees, judgments, suits settlements or disbursements of
any kind or nature arising from: (a) Your negligence or willful misconduct; or
(b) Your breach of this Agreement.  
Section
1.4.7 applies exclusively to Lime, as the specific language indicates, “You
agree to indemnify and hold harmless Lime from any tickets.” This provision is
inapplicable to the City.
Sections
1.8, 1.15, and 8.1 potentially apply to the City as these sections refer to a
"released party" which encompasses the City, or the provisions do not
specify to whom they apply, allowing for broader applicability.
Section
8.1 states:
“You
agree to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Released Persons from and
against any and all consequences, claims, demands, causes of action, losses,
liabilities, damages, injuries, fees, costs and expenses, penalties, attorneys’
fees, judgments, suits settlements, and/or disbursements of any kind, or nature
whatsoever, whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, and whether known or unknown,
that directly or indirectly arise from or are related to any claim, suit,
action, demand, or proceeding made or brought against any Released Person, or
on account of the investigation, defense, or settlement thereof, arising out of
or in connection with, whether occurring heretofore or hereafter: (i) Your use
or misuse of the Services, Products, and/or related equipment, (ii) Your User
Submissions; (iii) Your use of the Services and Your activities in connection
with the Services; (iv) Your breach or alleged breach of this Agreement or any
Additional Terms; 
Then
there are the assumption of risk provisions stating: 
1.15.
Assumption of Liability by You: YOU AGREE THAT YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE AND
LIABLE FOR ANY MISUSE, CONSEQUENCES, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, CAUSES OF ACTION, LOSSES,
LIABILITIES, DAMAGES, INJURIES, FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES, PENALTIES, ATTORNEYS’
FEES, JUDGMENTS, SUITS AND/OR DISBURSEMENTS OF ANY KIND, OR NATURE WHATSOEVER,
WHETHERFORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, AND WHETHER KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, AS A RESULT
OF USING ANY OF THE SERVICES 
1.8.
Compliance with Laws: YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE AND LIABLE FOR ANY VIOLATION
OF ANY LAWS, RULES, REGULATIONS, AND/OR ORDINANCES CAUSED BY YOUR USE OF THE
SERVICES, INCLUDING IMPROPER RIDING AND/OR PARKING, AND YOU AGREE THAT YOU ARE
SOLELY RESPONSIBLE AND LIABLE FOR ANY AND ALL CONSEQUENCES, CLAIMS, DEMANDS,
CAUSES OF ACTION, LOSSES, LIABILITIES, DAMAGES, INJURIES, COSTS AND EXPENSES,
PENALTIES, ATTORNEYS’ FEES, JUDGMENTS, SUITS, FEES (INCLUDING IMPOUNDING FEES
CHARGED BY ANY LOCAL GOVERNMENT) AND/OR DISBURSEMENTS OF ANY KIND, OR NATURE
WHATSOEVER, WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, AND WHETHER KNOWN OR UNKNOWN,
AS A RESULT OF USING ANY OF THE SERVICES. 
“Generally,
indemnity is defined as an obligation of one party to pay or satisfy the loss
or damage incurred by another party.” (Rideau v. Stewart Title of
California, Inc., (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1287, 1294.) Generally, an
indemnification provision allows one party to recover costs incurred defending
actions by third parties, not attorney fees incurred in an action between the
parties to the contract. (Rideau, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 1298.)
Courts look to several indicators to distinguish third party indemnification
provisions from provisions for the award of attorney fees incurred in
litigation between the parties to the contract. The key indicator is an express
reference to indemnification. A clause that contains the words “indemnify” and
“hold harmless” generally obligates the indemnitor to reimburse the indemnitee
for any damages the indemnitee becomes obligated to pay third persons, that is,
it relates to third party claims, not attorney fees incurred in a breach of
contract action between the parties to the indemnity agreement itself. (Carr
Business Enterprises v. City of Chowchilla, (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.)
Broad
language such as “‘Seller ... agrees to indemnify and save buyer ... harmless
from any and all losses ... including ... reasonable attorney's fees ...
arising from any cause or for any reason whatsoever’ does not provide for
attorney fees in an action between the parties for breach of contract.” (Alki
Partners, LP v. DB Fund Servs., LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 574, 601.)
Similarly, an indemnification clause in which one party promised to “indemnify”
the other from “‘any, all, and every claim’ which arises out of ‘the
performance of the contract’ ” (Citing Myers Building Industries, Ltd. v.
Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 974) deals only with
third party claims, and cannot support an award of attorney fees in an action
for breach of contract between the parties to the agreement. The Myers
court held that, considering the ordinary meaning of the words “indemnify” and
the context of the provisions, the contract could not be construed as
separately providing for attorney fees in an action between the parties. (Ibid.)
The Myers court determined the indemnity provision there did not afford
a right to attorney fees incurred in breach of contract litigation between the
parties to the agreement, even though, the contract provided the indemnity
agreement was to be enforced “[t]o the fullest extent permitted by law.” (Id.
at pp. 963–964.)
Although
the provisions at issue use broad language similar to that in Myers such
as "any, all, and every claim which arises out of the performance of the
contract ... to the fullest extent permitted by law” or "harmless from any
and all losses ... including ... reasonable attorney's fees ... arising from
any cause or for any reason whatsoever," Myers (as well as Alki)
denied attorney’s fees.
In
this case, both express references to indemnification and assumption of risk
are evident in the titles of the provisions. The provisions are not titled as
attorney fee provisions, and Defendant has not provided such a provision. There
is also usage of terms like "indemnify" or "hold harmless,"
which are standard for indemnity agreements in section 8.1, and terms like
"YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE AND LIABLE," which are typical for
assumption of risk provisions under sections 1.15 and 1.8. Furthermore, within
the provisions themselves, it does not contain any language that is typical of
an attorney’s fee provision in a lawsuit between the parties, such as “the
prevailing party can recover attorney’s fees.” The purposes of attorney fee
provisions, indemnity provisions, and assumption of risk provisions all differ:
an attorney fee provision governs disputes between the parties; an indemnity
provision applies when a third party, not the parties themselves, sues one of
the parties; and an assumption of risk provision involves one party
acknowledging and accepting the inherent risks of an activity or service,
thereby limiting the liability of the provider for those risks. Essentially,
these are standard indemnity and assumption of risk provisions, although very
broad in language; they lack any specific mention that in a lawsuit between the
parties, the prevailing party would be entitled to attorney’s fees.
Defendant
cites Hom v. Petrou (67 Cal.App.5th 459, 472), but in that case, there
was an attorney fee provision between the contracting parties stating,
"Should any dispute arise from this Lease or the tenancy hereby created,
and the parties cannot settle it between themselves, then the prevailing party
will be entitled to reimbursement of its reasonable attorneys’ fees."
Under this agreement, the third-party beneficiaries were able to recover fees
against one of the parties. This is distinguishable from the present case,
where no such attorney fee provision exists for the prevailing party.
Thus,
attorney’s fees are denied. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number. The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.