 Case Number:  22STCV21816    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/19/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV21816 NAHID Z-EZAZI,
et al. vs PACIFIC CARE NON-EMERGENCY et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Pacific Care
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS
GRANTED.
 
On July 6, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case in which  decedent Fatemeh Khoshnood (“decedent”)
allegedly fell out of her wheelchair while being transported from her dialysis
appointment. Defendants filed their answers on May 22, 2023, and August 10,
2023. The trial is currently set for October 31, 2024. Defendant Pacific Care
moves the court for a continuance to April 2025 to allow more time to conduct
discovery, such as depositions, and for the parties to attend mediation.
Defendant Access Services and Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
The court finds good
cause to continue the trial. The parties had approximately a year to conduct
discovery, and the need for additional time is reasonable. Furthermore, there
was one prior continuance, and no opposition was filed by the other parties,
nor were there any parties alleging prejudice. The court grants Defendant’s
request. The parties should treat the new trial date as firm.
The new Trial Date is
set for April _____ 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued
to April _____ 2025, at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines will follow the
new trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 