  Case Number:  20STCV22988    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Tuesday, December 12, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                              Calendar No. 2
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
C.G.
v. Truly Commerce, Inc., et al.  
20STCV22988
1.      Schimmel & Parks, APLC’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Plaintiff C.G.
2.      California Legal Counsel APLC’s Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel for Plaintiff C.G. 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Schimmel & Parks, APLC’s and
California Legal Counsel APLC’s Motions to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff
C.G. are granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed his Complaint on June 17, 2020.
Plaintiff’s operative First Amended Complaint was filed on September 28, 2020. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was hired by Defendants as a laborer in
their warehouse facility when he was 14 years old. Plaintiff reported directly
to Defendant Nechemia Shoub. Thereafter, Defendant Shoub began to abuse
Plaintiff emotionally, mentally, and sexually, who was a minor at all relevant
times. Defendant Shoub manipulated Plaintiff into trusting him, in part, using
promises of promotion and professional advancement. Defendant Shoub began to abuse
this trust by engaging in a calculated course of misconduct that included
intimidation, manipulation, undue influence, and inappropriate behavior towards
Plaintiff. Defendants repeatedly made false promises to Plaintiff regarding
payment of Plaintiff’s back pay and advancement opportunities. Defendants
regularly failed to timely pay wages owed to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges causes of action for: 1. Negligence;
2. Negligent Hiring, Retention, Training, and Supervision, 3. Battery; 4.
Assault; 5. IIED; 6. Unfair Competition (Bus. & Prof. Code 17200), as well
as four additional causes of action under the Labor Code. 
 
Motions to be Relieved
as Counsel
 
Counsel
states, in their declarations, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states
that there has been a complete breakdown in the relationship of the parties.
The Court finds that the attorneys have filed and served upon the client a
declaration.  The Court also finds that
the attorneys have shown sufficient reasons why the motions to be relieved as
counsel should be granted and why the attorneys brought a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The
Court finds that the attorneys served the proposed orders upon the client and
all parties as required by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
Therefore, the
motions to be relieved as counsel are granted.
 
The attorneys
are relieved as counsel of record for the client effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed orders upon the client. 
 

Schimmel & Parks APLC is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling. 