 Case Number:  23TRCV02230    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Tuesday, December 12, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 3  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ally
Bank v. William Fernandez, et al.
23TRCV02230

Ally Bank’s Application for Writ of Possession   

 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
            Ally Bank’s Application for Writ of
Possession is granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 512.040(b).
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed its Complaint on July
11, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant breached the motor
vehicle retail installment contract which Defendant entered into with
Plaintiff’s assignor. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Claim and Deliver of Personal Property; 2. Money on a Contract.
 
            Writ of Possession
 
CCP § 512.010 sets forth the requirements in an
application for writ of possession.  CCP
§ 512.010(b) states: “The application shall be executed under oath and shall
include all of the following:
 (1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's
claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed.
If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the
instrument shall be attached.
 (2) A showing that the property is wrongfully
detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into
possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information,
and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 (3) A particular description of the property
and a statement of its value.
 (4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.
 (5) A statement that the property has not been
taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is
by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
            Pursuant to CCP § 512.040(b): “The
writ will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably
valid and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established. The
hearing is not for the purpose of determining whether the claim is actually
valid. The determination of the actual validity of the claim will be made in
subsequent proceedings in the action and will not be affected by the decision
at the hearing on the application for the writ.” Pursuant to CCP § 511.090, a
“claim has probable validity where it is more likely than not that plaintiff
will obtain judgment against defendant on that claim.”
 
            Further, “[a]t the hearing, the
court shall make its determinations upon the basis of the pleadings and other
papers in the record; but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and
consider additional evidence and authority produced at the hearing or may
continue the hearing for the production of such additional evidence, oral or
documentary, or the filing of other affidavits or points and authorities.”  CCP § 512.050.
 
            Plaintiff applies for a writ of possession to
possess the vehicle that was the subject of the sales agreement.  Here, Plaintiff has set forth all the
essential elements required in CCP § 512.010(b).  (Decl., James Singleton, ¶¶ 5-10.)  Plaintiff has met its burden to establish the
probable validity of its claim. 
(Id.)   
 
Plaintiff is not required to
post an undertaking as Defendant has no positive interest in the vehicle.  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
515.020(a), the amount of Defendant’s undertaking is set at $32,995.67.   
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 