 Case Number:  23TRCV00675    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Tuesday, December 12, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 5  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ana
Lourdes Machado v. The TJX Companies, Inc., et al.  
23TRCV00675
1.      Marshalls of California, LLC and The TJX Companies,
Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss
2.      Ana Lourdes Machado’s Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Marshalls of California, LLC and The TJX Companies,
Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss is denied.
 
Ana Lourdes Machado’s Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on March 7, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff slipped and fell at Marshall’s in
Torrance. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. General
Negligence; 2. Premises Liability.
 
On July 17, 2023, Defendants’ motion to strike
portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint was granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff
did not file a First Amended Complaint within the time allotted and has still
not technically filed a First Amended Complaint.
 
Motion to Dismiss
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 581(f)(2) states: “The court may
dismiss the complaint as to that defendant when: Except where Section 597
applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.”  CCP § 597
applies to trials of defenses and is not applicable to this action.  “[P]laintiffs’ failure to file an amended
complaint within the time specified subjected their entire action to dismissal
in the court's discretion under section 581, subdivision (f)(2).” Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613.
 
On July 17, 2023, Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Portions of the Complaint was granted with 20 days leave to amend. No First
Amended Complaint was filed by Plaintiff. Instead, Plaintiff’s counsel states
that: “On 7/28/23 I emailed Defendant's Counsel's Mr. Stone with the propose
(sic) amended Complaint stating that if he is not willing to stipulate, I will
file a motion.” (Decl., Georgia Anderson, ¶ 7.)  Then, Plaintiff counsel states that: “On
8/2/2023 I serve (sic) Mr. Stone with Plaintiff motion to amend the Complaint.
On 8/2/2023 I submit (sic) Plaintiff (sic) Motion to leave to Amend Complaint
though (sic) electronic filing, however on 8/4/23 the Clerk rejected the filing
for a minor reason “resubmit each document as a separate pdf.” (Decl.,
Anderson, ¶¶ 8, 9.)  A review of
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend reveals that it was served on August 2, 2023,
and a proposed copy of the First Amended Complaint was attached to the motion.
 
It is unclear why Plaintiff’s counsel believed that
she needed to first attempt to obtain a stipulation for filing the First
Amended Complaint and then, second, why she believed that she needed to reserve
a motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint. The Court’s order of July
17, 2023 specifically states that an amended pleading may be filed by Plaintiff
within 20 days – no other motions or conditions were required. To the extent
that it appears that Plaintiff counsel’s states that she misunderstood
statements from the Court, the Court finds that any such misunderstanding is
sufficient to constitute excusable neglect, mistake, and/or surprise. (Decl.,
Anderson, ¶ 6.)  The procedural
mechanisms which Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to employ, after July 17, 2023,
were completely unnecessary. She needed to simply file the First Amended
Complaint with the Court within 20 days.  That is all.  The Court is also perplexed why Defendant’s
counsel did not simply reiterate this, as well, when Plaintiff apparently tried
to obtain a stipulation with Defendant’s counsel.
 
The Court has the discretion to accept an untimely
amendment.  Harlan v. Department of
Transp. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 868, 874.  Plaintiff counsel has adequately demonstrated
that the delay in amendment was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. The Court may exercise its discretion in denying a motion to
dismiss under these circumstances. Contreras v. Blue Cross of Calif.
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 945, 948 (stating that Plaintiff is not required to first
move to set aside a dismissal in a similar circumstance and that the Court has
discretion to deny or grant the motion to dismiss filed by the Defendant).
Further, as mentioned above, a proposed copy of the First Amended Complaint was
served within the time allotted to amend and Plaintiff counsel states that a
copy of the First Amended Complaint was, at least, attempted to be filed,
albeit with an unnecessary motion for leave to amend, within the time allotted.
As noted, the filing was rejected for technical reasons.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 475 states:
“The court must, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the pleadings
or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect the
substantial rights of the parties. No judgment, decision, or decree shall be
reversed or affected by reason of any error, ruling, instruction, or defect,
unless it shall appear from the record that such error, ruling, instruction, or
defect was prejudicial, and also that by reason of such error, ruling, instruction,
or defect, the said party complaining or appealing sustained and suffered
substantial injury, and that a different result would have been probable if
such error, ruling, instruction, or defect had not occurred or existed. There
shall be no presumption that error is prejudicial, or that injury was done if
error is shown.”
 
The strong interest in hearing cases on the merits
compels the Court to deny this motion. There is little to no prejudice from the
delay in filing the amended pleading. On the other hand, a dismissal of this
case in this situation would be with prejudice forever eliminating
Plaintiff’s claims and her right to assert her claims. Certainly, a dismissal
with prejudice of Plaintiff’s claims would cause significant prejudice to
Plaintiff.
 
Therefore, the motion to dismiss is denied.
 
Motion for Leave to Amend
 
The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§
473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to
amend is generally liberally granted. 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature. 
However, the court does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a
proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law
and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.   Cal.
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.

 
The application for leave to
amend should be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered.  The closer the trial date, the stronger the
showing required for leave to amend.  If
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. The court has
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action or defense. California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Sup.Ct. (Gorgei) (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d. 274, 280-81 (disapproved on other
grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 390, 407.)
 
For the reasons noted above,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is granted. As
stated above, this motion, in fact, was completely unnecessary from the start. Thus,
the Court simply grants the request to file the First Amended Complaint albeit
in an untimely manner in connection with the Court’s prior ruling granting the
motion to strike portions of the Complaint with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve a copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint within 3 days of this
date.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.