 Case Number:  24STCV12477    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MICHAEL BUTLER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSIT
  AUTHORITY, 
                        
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  24STCV12477
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff Michael
Butler filed this action against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transit Authority, asserting causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) dangerous
condition of public property, (3) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (4)
violation of the Disabled Persons Act, and (5) strict products liability. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he is
disabled and relies on a scooter or wheelchair for mobility and regularly rides
the Los Angeles Metro for transportation. (Compl. ¶ 11.) On June 10, 2023,
Plaintiff boarded a metro train in his wheelchair. (Id., ¶ 12.) The
train allegedly braked aggressively multiple times during the ride, and on one
such occasion, this caused Plaintiff to fall over in his wheelchair, leading to
severe injuries. (Id., ¶ 13.) Several passengers allegedly attempted to
contact the train operator, who did not respond. (Id., ¶ 14.) At a later
stop, another operator appeared and quickly exited the train without
acknowledging the passengers. (Ibid.) The train then continued as
normal. (Ibid.) 
            On August 9, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the complaint. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on August 23, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on August
29, 2024.    
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Liu Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
a. Negligence (First COA) 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute .
. . [a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises
out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any
other person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 815(a).) “[S]ection 815 abolishes common law
tort liability for public entities.” (Miklosy v. Regents of University of
California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899.) “In other words, direct tort
liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them
to be liable . . . .” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) 
1. Mandatory Duty
One such statute is Government Code
section 815.6, which provides: “Where
a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is
designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public
entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure
to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” (Gov. Code, § 815.6.) “[A]pplication
of section 815.6 requires that the enactment at issue be obligatory, rather
than merely discretionary or permissive, in its directions to the public entity.”
(Haggis v. City of Los Angeles (2000) 22 Cal.4th 490, 498.) “If a
statute does not require that a ‘particular action’ be taken, Government Code
section 815.6 does not create the right to sue a public entity.” (Shamsian
v. Department of Conservation (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 621, 632.) 
Plaintiff has not identified any statute
imposing a mandatory duty in relation to the operation of the train. Plaintiff
argues that “Defendant was the operator of the subject metro rail and had a
duty of care to operate the train in a safe, lawful, and responsible manner so
as to not cause injury to others.” (Opp. 5:14-15.) However, this is not
sufficient under section 815.6; instead, the statute must “require that a ‘particular
action’ be taken.” (See Shamsian, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p. 632.)
Plaintiff has identified no statute mandating any “particular action” with
regards to the operation of a metro train. Thus, liability for negligence
cannot be based on section 815.6.   
2. Vicarious
Liability
Another statute expressly imposing
liability on public entities is Government Code section 815.2, which provides:
“A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission
of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the
act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of
action against that employee.” (Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).) A government entity
that is immune from direct tort liability may nonetheless be liable vicariously
for the acts of its employees. (See Ross v. San Francisco Bay Area Rapid
Transit Dist. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1507, 1514.) However, this also means
that the entity is immune to the extent that its employees are immune. (Ibid.;
Gov. Code, § 815.2(b).)  
An individual’s liability for negligence
depends on the following elements: (1)
a duty to exercise ordinary care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and
(4) damages. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that the individual train operators and servicers
had a duty to operate and maintain the train with due care, that they breached
that duty, and that the breach caused Plaintiff’s damages. (See Compl. ¶¶ 13-28.)
Defendant claims that there are insufficient facts explaining how its
employees’ actions caused Plaintiff’s injuries. This overlooks the allegations
that the train operators braked excessively, ignored passengers’ alerts during
the incident, and failed to properly maintain the rail’s safety systems, among
other things. These allegations are sufficiently specific for pleading
purposes. 
Because the
complaint adequately pleads negligence against the employees, it has
established a basis for vicarious liability under section 815.2. Thus,
Plaintiff has articulated a statutory basis for the negligence claim. The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action. 
b.
Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Second COA)
            Government
Code section 835 is yet another statute that expressly provides for liability
against a public entity. It provides as follows:
 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury
caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes
that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that
the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
which was incurred, and that either:
 
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or
 
(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
            Here,
Plaintiff has alleged that the metro rail was in a dangerous condition due to
defective design and maintenance of the train, tracks, tunnel, signals,
electrical systems, brakes, etc. (Compl. ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges that such
defects were the result of the negligent acts of Defendant’s employees. (Id.,
¶ 32.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant had sufficient notice of the
defects in time to take preventative measures before Plaintiff’s injury. (Id.,
¶ 33.) Thus, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a claim under
section 835. 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action.    
 
c.
Unruh Act (Third COA)
            The
Unruh Civil Rights Act provides that “[a]ll persons within the jurisdiction of
this state are free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language,
or immigration status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever.” (Civ. Code, § 51(b).) 
            The
term “business establishments of every kind whatsoever” should be interpreted “in
the broadest sense reasonably possible.” (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co.
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 468.) Thus, “some entities that would not ordinarily ‘be
thought of as … ‘traditional’ business establishment[s]’ should be considered
business establishments for purposes of the Unruh Civil Rights Act.” (Brennon
B. v. Superior Court (2022) 13 Cal.5th 662, 674.) “In parsing the
boundaries of what constitutes a ‘business establishment,’ our cases have
focused on attributes—performing business functions, protecting economic value,
operating as the functional equivalent of a commercial enterprise, etc.” (Id.
at p. 681.) “[A]n entity must effectively operate as a business or a commercial
enterprise” (ibid.) or “engage[] in behavior involving sufficient
‘businesslike attributes’” (Carter v. City of Los Angeles (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 808, 825). 
            In Brennon,
the Supreme Court held that “public school districts engaged in the work of
educating students” did not constitute a “business establishment” under the
Unruh Act. (Brennon, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 681.) “When acting in their
core educational capacity, public school districts do not perform ‘customary
business functions,’ nor is their ‘overall function … to protect and
enhance … economic value.” (Ibid.) Similarly, “[a] state prison is not a
business establishment for purposes of the act unless it engages in behavior
involving sufficient ‘businesslike attributes.’” (Carter, supra, 224
Cal.App.4th at p. 825.) 
            Defendant
relies on Brennon for the proposition that public entities cannot be
“business establishments” under the Unruh Act. However, Brennon makes
clear that the analysis focuses on “attributes” such as “performing business
functions, protecting economic value, [or] operating as the functional
equivalent of a commercial enterprise,” not on the public or private status of
an entity. (See Brennan, supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 681.) Brennan
did not hold that all public entities fall outside the definition of “business
establishment.” It merely held that school districts, “[w]hen acting in their
core educational capacity,” could not be considered business establishments. (Ibid.)
Carter recognized that a public entity, such as a state prison, may be
considered a business enterprise if it “engages in behavior involving
sufficient ‘businesslike attributes.’” (Carter, supra, 224 Cal.App.4th at
p. 825.) Defendant cites no case where a public entity was deemed beyond the
scope of the Unruh Act solely because it was a public entity. 
            Here,
the operation of a metro line involves providing transportation services in
exchange for monetary payment. In this way, Defendant “appears to have been
operating in a capacity that is the functional equivalent of a commercial
enterprise.” (See Warfield v. Peninsula Golf & Country Club (1995)
10 Cal.4th 594, 622.) Defendant “furnish[es] goods, services or facilities to
its clients, patrons or customers.” (See Stamps v. Superior Court (2006)
136 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1449.) Brennon does not preclude application of
the Unruh Act under the particular circumstances of this case. 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action.
d.
Disabled Persons Act (Fourth COA)
            “Individuals
with disabilities or medical conditions have the same right as the general
public to the full and free use of the streets, highways, sidewalks, walkways,
public buildings, medical facilities, including hospitals, clinics, and
physicians’ offices, public facilities, and other public places.” (Civ. Code, §
54(a).) 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant operated a public transport system but failed
to provide safety accommodations for disabled passengers with wheelchairs.
(Compl. ¶¶ 49-50.) This sufficiently establishes a violation of the DPA. Citing
to federal cases interpreting the Americans with Disabilities Act, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege deliberate indifference or
discriminatory animus. (Mtn. 9:7-21.) However, the DPA is a California statute,
and Defendant cites no authority imposing such a requirement under the DPA.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action.
e.
Strict Products Liability (Fifth COA)
                        1.
No “Product”
            “Products
liability is the name currently given to the area of the law involving the
liability of those who supply goods or products for the use of others to
purchasers, users, and bystanders for losses of various kinds resulting from
so-called defects in those products.” (Johnson v. United States Steel Corp.
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 22, 30.) “A ‘product’ is broadly defined to include any ‘tangible
personal property distributed commercially for use or consumption.’” (Id.
at p. 31.) “Generally, the imposition of strict liability hinges on the extent
to which a party was ‘responsible for placing products in the stream of
commerce.’” (Hernandezcueva v. E.F. Brady Co., Inc. (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 249, 258.) “However, products liability does not reach a party who
is delivering a service to the consumer rather than supplying the product at
issue.” (Sharufa v. Festival Fun Parks, LLC (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 493,
502.) 
            “In
a given transaction involving both products and services, liability will often
depend upon the defendant’s role. For example, an airline passenger injured
because of a defect in the craft would have a strict liability claim against
the manufacturer,” but “the airline operating the plane would be primarily
involved in providing a service, i.e., transportation. The airline is itself
the end user of the product and imposition of strict liability would be
inappropriate.” (Ferrari v. Grand Canyon Dories (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
248, 258.) In Ferrari, the plaintiff was injured while taking a guided
tour on a river raft and sued the tour company for products liability. (Id.
at pp. 251-52.) The court held that the claim was invalid because “Defendants
did not provide plaintiff with a raft for her to use. They provided a
service, i.e., recreational raft transportation on the Colorado River.” (Id.
at p. 259.) The raft “was merely an incident to this service.” (Ibid.) 
            Similarly,
Defendant in this case primarily provided a transportation service, and the
trains were merely an incident to this service. Defendant was not “responsible
for placing products in the stream of commerce.” (See Hernandezcueva, supra,
243 Cal.App.4th at p. 258.) While Plaintiff may have a claim against the
manufacturer or distributor of the trains, Defendant is neither. Instead,
Defendant is an ultimate user like the airline or tour company described in Ferrari.

This case is not
analogous to Sharufa, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at p. 503, where the court found
a triable issue over whether a water park primarily provided a product (the
slides) or a service (food, ride attendants, lifeguards, retail, etc.). Whereas
guests visiting a waterpark arguably do so specifically to use the waterslides for
their inherent entertainment value, passengers on a metro train primarily seek
the service of being moved from one place to another. The product (the train)
is merely an incident to this service. Passengers ride the train to go
somewhere, not for the sake of the train itself. Unlike Ferrari, Sharufa
did not involve a transportation service. Thus, Sharufa is not authority
for whether products liability is viable against the Defendant in this case,
who is a transportation provider, not an amusement park operator. Ferrari
is more on point and precludes products liability under the facts of this case.

Because
Defendant did not provide a product, it cannot be held liable for products
liability.   
2. Government Immunity
As established
above, government liability must be specifically enumerated in a statute.
However, “[s]trict products liability is a unique, court-fashioned doctrine.” (Tolan
v. State of California ex rel. Dept. of Transportation (1979) 100
Cal.App.3d 980, 986-87.) “Hence, strict products liability has no place in
governmental tort law, directly or by analogy.” (Id. at p. 987.) Plaintiff’s
opposition does not respond to this point, much less cite any statute imposing
strict products liability on public entities. Therefore, the claim fails as a
matter of law for this independent reason.  
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the fifth cause of action.
II. Motion to
Strike
            a. Negligent Hiring
            The
Tort Claims Act prescribes two sources of liability for a public entity: (1)
liability based on the entity’s own conduct; and (2) vicarious liability for
the acts of employees of the entity. (de Villers v. County of San Diego
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 238, 251.) While a public entity is generally liable for
any act of its employees that is within the course of employment, the entity’s
liability for its own conduct is limited to that prescribed by statute. (Id.
at pp. 251-52; Gov. Code, § 815.) A negligent hiring claim fails to the extent
that it seeks direct liability for an entity’s own negligence because there is
no statutory basis for such liability. (Id. at pp. 252-53; Munoz v.
City of Union City (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1111-14.) 
However, a
public entity may be vicariously liable for the negligence of its supervisory
employees in hiring and supervising incompetent staff. In C.A. v. William S.
Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 874-75, the court held
that a school district could be vicariously liable for the negligence of its
administrators in hiring and supervising a known child molester. Such a theory
was not possible in de Villers because “there was no evidence supporting
a conclusion any County employee had undertaken a special protective
relationship toward de Villers,” a husband whose wife murdered him using poison
she stole from the county coroner’s office where she worked. (Id. at p.
874.) In other words, “the toxicologist's supervisors and coworkers owed her
husband no duty to prevent his murder and could therefore not be personally
liable for his death.” (Ibid.) Without any such liability on the
individual employees, the County could not be vicariously liable. (Ibid.)

            By
contrast, the court in C.A. found that “school personnel ‘have a duty to
protect students from harm, which includes an obligation to exercise ordinary
care in hiring, training, supervising, and discharging school personnel.’” (C.A.,
supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 874.) It follows that when school personnel
negligently perform their duties, including by hiring incompetent teachers who
harm children, the school district is vicariously liable for such negligence. (Id.
at pp. 874-75.)  
            In
this case, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant’s employees negligently hired
and supervised the staff who operated and maintained the metro rail system.
(Compl. ¶ 20.) Unlike in de Villers, where employees of the county
coroner owed no duty to prevent a coworker from poisoning her husband,
Defendant’s employees owe metro passengers a duty to ensure their safety while
riding, which arguably includes properly hiring and supervising the staff who
operate and maintain the trains. Assuming Defendant’s employees negligently
hired and supervised incompetent staff, Defendant may be vicariously liable for
this negligence under Government Code section 815.2. Thus, for pleading
purposes, the alleged facts support Defendant’s vicarious liability for
negligent hiring.
            The
motion to strike is DENIED as to the allegations pertaining to negligent hiring
and supervision. 
            b. Prejudgment Interest
            “A
person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being made
certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in the person
upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that
day, except when the debtor is prevented by law, or by the act of the creditor
from paying the debt. This section is applicable to recovery of damages and
interest from any debtor, including the state or any county, city, city and
county, municipal corporation, public district, public agency, or any political
subdivision of the state.” (Civ. Code, § 3287(a), emphasis added.) 
            Defendant
argues that prejudgment interest is unrecoverable against a public entity under
Civil Code section 3291. Section 3291 prescribes prejudgment interest when a
plaintiff makes a settlement offer that the defendant does not accept, and the
plaintiff obtains a more favorable result at trial. Section 3291 does not apply
to public entities. However, section 3287 expressly allows recovery against
public entities in situations where damages are certain or capable of being
made certain. Thus, Plaintiff may allege prejudgment interest under section
3287. Whether Plaintiff is ultimately entitled to any prejudgment interest is
not currently at issue. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action
and OVERRULED in all other respects. The motion to strike is DENIED.