 Case Number:  24STCV03574    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SUSSANNE KHAN, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
AIRBNB, INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV03574
  Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion to strike the answer
  of gefin investments, llc and for entry of default 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs
Sussanne Khan and Babrak Arslan Goni filed this action against Defendants Airbnb,
Inc.; Kiakat Partners, LP; and Gefin Investments, LLC. 
            On May 20, 2024, an unverified
answer was purportedly filed by attorney Robert Smith on behalf of Defendant
Gefin Investments, LLC (Gefin). Mr. Smith denies ever representing Gefin or
filing anything on its behalf. (Smith Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel, Hillary
Johns, was contacted by a Leslie Richards, who appeared to represent Gefin and
requested an extension of time to file a responsive pleading. (Johns Decl. ¶
1.) Ms. Johns agreed to the extension. (Ibid.) After Mr. Smith informed
Ms. Johns that he did not represent Gefin, Ms. Johns discovered that Ms.
Richards had been disbarred and was not licensed to practice in California. (Id.,
¶¶ 3-4.) Ms. Richards responded that she was only a paralegal, that Mr. Smith
was initially set to represent Gefin but could no longer do so, and that Gefin
was arranging for new counsel. (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. 5.) To date, Ms. Johns had
not been contacted by any licensed attorney representing Gefin. (Id., ¶
6.) 
            On August 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion to strike Gefin’s answer and to enter default against Gefin.
Gefin filed its opposition on August 22, 2024. Plaintiffs filed their reply on
August 26, 2024.  
DISCUSSION
I.
Motion to Strike
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
Plaintiffs move to strike the answer filed
on May 20, 2024 on the grounds that it was not properly filed by anyone
representing Gefin and that Gefin, as a corporation, cannot represent itself.
Gefin does not oppose the striking of the May 20, 2024 answer. The Court finds
that the answer is improper and must be stricken.  
II.
Entry of Default
            Plaintiffs also request that default
be entered against Gefin. Gefin argues that if the answer is stricken, it
should be allowed to file a responsive pleading. Gefin manager Shai Abishoor
avers that upon receiving the summons and complaint, he contacted an Airbnb
referral to arrange for defense counsel. (Abishoor Decl. ¶ 5.) Mr. Abishoor
avers that he was connected with Ms. Richards, who appeared to be an attorney
representing Gefin and who assured Mr. Abishoor that the case was being
handled. (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.) Upon learning of the instant motion and the
associated facts, Mr. Abishoor retained Mark Rosenbaum to represent Gefin. (Id.,
¶¶ 11-12.) 
            Plaintiffs cite no legal authority
supporting their request for default. The Court finds that default is not
warranted, or would be easily set aside if entered. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
473.) Because the law favors resolution on the merits, doubts are resolved in
favor of the party requesting relief, and only “slight evidence” is needed to
justify relief. (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1521, 1524.) Here, the facts readily support a finding of mistake or excusable
neglect. Gefin is currently represented by licensed counsel and is prepared to
file a responsive pleading. The appropriate course is to allow Gefin to respond
to the complaint and have the case proceed on the merits. 
            Plaintiffs’ reply consists solely of
a supplemental declaration by Ms. Johns demonstrating service of the summons
and complaint and statement of damages on Gefin. Plaintiffs did not file a
reply brief and provide no argument to accompany Ms. Johns’ declaration. It is
unclear what significance the evidence has to the issue at hand. Gefin does not
deny receiving service of the summons, complaint, or statement of damages.
Gefin’s argument against default is that it was caused by mistake or excusable
neglect based on the representations made by Ms. Richards. Plaintiffs’ reply
evidence has no bearing on these facts, nor have Plaintiffs provided any
authority to support their request for default. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion to strike is
GRANTED. The answer of Gefin Investments, LLC filed on May 20, 2024 is stricken
in its entirety. Gefin shall file a responsive pleading within 5 days of this
order.
            Plaintiffs’ request for entry of
default is DENIED. 