  Case Number:  22STCL03999    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING      MAHMUD REZA SIAMIZADE, an individual and as    representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi                vs.   STEVEN MEIER, et al.       Case    No.:  22STCL03999          Hearing Date: May 24, 2024      Defendants  Steven Meier M.D. and Steven W. Meier M.D., Inc. dba Meier Orthopedic Sports  Medicine’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. The IIED claim  is struck from the FAC.   Defendant LA  Peer Surgery’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS  LEAVE TO AMEND. The IIED claim is struck from the FAC.   On 6/15/2022,  Plaintiff Mahmud Reza Siamizade, as an individual and on behalf of himself and  as representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi, (Plaintiff) filed suit  against Steve Meier M.D. and Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine, and LA Peer  Surgery Center. On 12/21/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC)  alleging: (1) refusal to provide medical records to Plaintiff; (2) refusal to  provide medical records to counsel; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional  distress (IIED).                 On  2/14/2023, Defendants Steven Meier M.D. and Steven W. Meier M.D., Inc. dba  Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine (collectively, Defendants) demurred to  Plaintiff’s FAC. Defendants also moved to strike portions of the FAC.                On  4/10/2024, Defendant LA Peer Surgery demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC.                For  ease, the Court has consolidated its analysis into a single ruling.   Discussion     In order to  commence or continue an action as a decedent’s successor-in-interest,  fundamentally a plaintiff must first have standing.    Code of Civil  Procedure (CCP) Section 377.32 mandates:   (a) The  person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending  action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this  article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of  perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:    (1)  The  decedent’s name.    (2)  The  date and place of the decedent’s death.    (3)  “No  proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s  estate.”    (4)  If  the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the  distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.    (5)  Either  of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:    (A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in  interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil  Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or  proceeding.”    (B)  “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s  successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of  Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or  proceeding.”    (6) “No other  person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be  substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”    (7) “The  affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the  laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”    (b) Where  more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this section,  the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to  reflect that fact.    (c) A  certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the  affidavit or declaration.                Here,  Plaintiff’s FAC fails to comply with this mandatory statute. Although claiming  to sue in his individual capacity and as “representative of the Estate of  Mahzar Sedghi,” according to the First Amended Compliant (Exhibit E at ¶2,  e.g.), no affidavit or declaration has been provided or served which comports  with the statutory requirements of CCP §377.32, supra. Further, no  supporting facts have been proffered. As such, Plaintiff has failed to allege  sufficient facts to show he has standing to pursue this claim.                Plaintiff  must allege facts which could show he has standing to pursue this claim as a representative  of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi.                However,  in the interest of prudence and in anticipation of future motion practice, the  Court briefly addresses the substance of Defendants’ claims.    Both parties argue that  Plaintiff cannot state a claim because the first and second causes of action  are not recognized causes of action, and there are insufficient facts to  support a claim for IIED.    As for the IIED cause of  action, Plaintiff did not seek, nor was  awarded, leave to amend to add a cause of action for IIED. Plaintiff also has  not alleged any facts which could show that the failure to release medical records—especially  given that those records have since undisputedly been released—could rise to  the level of conduct “so extreme that it goes beyond all possible bounds of  decency.” (CACI 1602.) Accordingly, the IIED claim must be stricken.    As for the  first and second causes of action, the Court finds that, assuming Plaintiff can  allege sufficient facts to show standing, the facts are sufficient to state a  claim as to the first and second causes of action against the Meier Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges that he made multiple attempts in writing to obtain his  mother’s medical records and that they failed to release them. In their moving  papers, Defendants do not appear to argue that Plaintiff failed to properly  request the records.  While Defendants  contend that they have now released the records, they offer no explanation as  to why Plaintiff is not entitled to recover damages, including attorney fees,  incurred to secure the release of these records. (See, Akins v. State of  California (1998) 61Cal.App.4th 1, 50.)  Moreover, while Defendants dispute that the  released records are incomplete, the Court accepts well-pled allegations as  true at the pleading stage. As such, the completeness of the medical records is  a factual determination and thus not properly determined at this stage.    Moreover, while Meier Defendants argue that “Failure to  Provide Medical Records” is not a cause of action, the Court looks to the  substance of the allegations, rather than the label affixed to the claim, when  determining whether a claim has been stated. Here, Plaintiff alleges a  violation of Health & Safety Code section 123110(b)(1). Meier Defendants do  not set forth any authority which could show there is no private right of  action to enforce this provision.    However, the  Court finds Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to support the first and  second causes of action against LA Peer Surgery. Plaintiff does not allege that  he and/or his mother ever made a written request for medical records to this  Defendant (LA Peer Surgery Center) and provided this Defendant (LA Peer Surgery  Center) with a written release. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged  sufficient facts to show that he properly requested the records from LA Peer  Surgery, and thus has not alleged facts which could show a violation of Health & Safety Code section  123110(b)(1) as to LA Peer Surgery.                Based  on the foregoing, the Meier Defendants and LA Peer Surgery Defendants’  demurrers are sustained, with 15 days leave to amend.  The IIED claim is struck from the FAC.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  May     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.    