 Case Number:  22STLC03999    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING      MAHMUD REZA SIAMIZADE, an individual and as    representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi                vs.   STVEN MEIER, et al.       Case    No.:  22STCL03999       Hearing Date: May 24, 2024      Defendants’  demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first and second cause of action, but  SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third cause of action.   On 6/15/2022,  Plaintiff Mahmud Reza Siamizade, as an individual and on behalf of himself and  as representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi, (Plaintiff) filed suit  against Steve Meier M.D. and Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine, and LA Peer  Surgery Center. On 12/21/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC)  alleging: (1) refusal to provide medical records to Plaintiff; (2) refusal to  provide medical records to counsel; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional  distress (IIED).                 On  2/14/2023, Defendants Steven Meier M.D. and Steven W. Meier M.D., Inc. dba  Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine (collectively, Defendants) demurred to  Plaintiff’s FAC.    Discussion                 Defendants  argue that Plaintiff’s claims fail because there is no recognized cause of  action for the failure to provide medical records, the IIED cause of action is  procedurally improper and is insufficiently pled.                As  to the first contention, Defendants argue that there is no recognized cause of  action for either failure to provide medical records. However, Defendants’  motion does not contain any substantive legal analysis to show that it did not  violate Health and Safety Code Section 123110 (k)(1) or Health and Safety Code  Section 123110 (b)(1) which governs the release of patient records, or to  explain how the statute contemplates recovery other than the use of  litigation.  (“This failure to cite  pertinent legal authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins  v. State of California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived  by failure to cite legal authority).               While  Defendants contend that they have now released the records, they offer no  explanation as to why Plaintiff is not entitled to recover damages, including  attorney fees, incurred to secure the release of these records. (See Akins,  supra.)  Moreover, while  Defendants dispute that the released records are incomplete, the Court accepts  well-pled allegations as true at the pleading stage. As such, the completeness  of the medical records is a factual determination not properly determined at  this stage.                As  to the second contention, Defendants note that Plaintiff did not seek, nor was  awarded, leave to amend to add a cause of action for IIED. This, alone, is  sufficient to sustain the demur to this cause of action. However, the Court  also notes that the claim fails as a matter of law. Plaintiff has not alleged  any facts which could show that the failure to release medical records, now  release, could rise to the level of conduct “so extreme that it goes beyond all  possible bounds of decency.” (CACI 1602.)               Based  on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the first and second  cause of action, but sustained, without leave to amend as to the third cause of  action.      It is so ordered.    Dated:  May     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.    