  Case Number:  21SMCV01761    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Calemzuk v. Corral
360, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01761
MOTION:                  Motion
to Add Judgment Debtor
HEARING DATE:   3/1/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            The Court may amend a judgment to
add an alter ego of an original judgment debtor, and thereby make the
additional judgment debtor liable on the judgment. (CCP § 187; Highland
Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of Banning¿(2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 267, 280.) To prevail on the motion, the judgment creditor must
show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that: “(1) the parties to be added as
judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually
represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no
longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated
as those of the entity alone.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC v. Airborne
Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811, 815–816.) The court is
not required to hold an evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment, and
may rule on the motion based solely on declarations and other written evidence.
(Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg¿(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1, 9.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Emiliano Calemzuk moves to amend the Judgment in
this action to add Alejandro Corral as an additional judgment debtor pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 187. Judgment was entered against the
sole defendant, Defendant Corral 360 Inc., and in favor of Plaintiff, on
January 28, 2022, for the principal amount of $58,540.00. Mr. Corral is
allegedly the principal of Defendant. Plaintiff argues that Corral 360 is
merely a shell corporation that has been suspended for years, intended to
solely benefit its principal Alex Corral, and thus Mr. Corral should be liable
for the judgment.
 
“Modification of a judgment may be proper when the
newly-named defendant is an existing defendant’s alter ego. ‘Under the alter
ego doctrine, ... when the corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud,
circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose,
the courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s acts to
be those of the persons ... actually controlling the corporation, in most
instances the equitable owners. The alter ego doctrine prevents individuals ...
from misusing the corporate laws by the device of a sham corporate entity
formed for the purpose of committing fraud or other misdeeds.” (Wolf
Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales, Inc. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 703, citations
omitted.)
 
“Before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked in
California, two conditions generally must be met. ‘First, there must be such a
unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner
that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not
in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.’ While courts have
developed a list of factors that may be analyzed in making these determinations,
‘[t]here is no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be
pierced; rather the result will depend on the circumstances of each particular
case.’” (Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
214, 220–221, citations and alterations omitted.)
 
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the first requirement of
alter ego liability—unity of interest. “The first requirement for disregarding
the corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine—whether there is sufficient
unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the
individual and the corporation no longer exist—encompasses a series of factors.
Among the many factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are one
individual’s ownership of all stock in a corporation; use of the same office or
business location; commingling of funds and other assets of the individual and
the corporation; an individual holding out that he is personally liable for
debts of the corporation; identical directors and officers; failure to maintain
minutes or adequate corporate records; disregard of corporate formalities;
absence of corporate assets and inadequate capitalization; and the use of a
corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for the business of an
individual. This list of factors is not exhaustive, and these enumerated
factors may be considered with others under the particular circumstances of
each case. ‘No single factor is determinative, and instead a court must examine
all the circumstances to determine whether to apply the doctrine.’” (Misik
v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1073, as modified (Aug. 9, 2011), citations
omitted.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that
Mr. Corral is the sole person Plaintiff interacted with in relation to the
subject funds. (Calemzuk Decl., ¶¶ 3-10.) In the years leading to this
litigation, Corral reassured Plaintiff multiple times that he would repay the
money loaned to him, “personally guaranteeing” repayment. (Id., ¶ 4.) Even
following judgment, Mr. Corral said that he would repay Plaintiff. (Id., ¶5.) Plaintiff
also provides that Mr. Corral committed to paying $5,000.00 per month for 13
months to pay off the judgment, and that the only two payments came from Mr.
Corral. (Id., ¶¶13-14.) Mr. Corral is listed as Defendant’s sole officer (Chief
Executive Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial Officer), sole director, and also
as the designated Agent for Service of Process by the Secretary of State. (Id.,
Ex. C.) Plaintiff also notes that the Court found good cause to issue an order
to appear for examination to Mr. Corral on behalf of Corral 360 Inc., and
issued a bench warrant against Corral 360 for Mr. Corral’s failure to appear. Plaintiff
notes that Corral 360 is suspended by the Secretary of State, apparently for
failure to pay taxes. (Id., Ex. D.) From this evidence, the Court concludes
that Mr. Corral is the sole officer, director and agent of service of process
for Corral, and that Mr. Corral guided Corral 360’s defense to this litigation.
(See Id., ¶ 17.) 
 
The above evidence presents three factors
that might aid in establishing the unity of interest. Mr. Corral is apparently
the sole proprietor of Corral 360, though the precise nature of his ownership
is uncertain. Mr. Corral held himself out as personally liable for the debts of
Corral 360 by his promises to pay the judgment and personally paying a portion
of said judgment. Mr. Corral probably also controlled Corral 360’s defense of
this litigation. From these facts, the Court could
conclude that Mr. Corral used Corral 360 as a shell for his personal business.
However, the Court would require more evidence to conclude that a unity of
interest exists such that the Court should pierce the veil. For example, the
mere fact that Mr. Corral is the sole proprietor of Corral 360 does not by
itself suggest that there is no separate personality between
the two. If Mr. Corral is the sole agent, officer, and owner of Corral
360, then he would necessarily have to control any litigation involving Corral
360. As a practical matter, a sole proprietor such as Mr. Corral would also
have to negotiate with creditors. Thus, this evidence ultimately only demonstrates
that Mr. Corral controls Corral 360, which is insufficient. The Court would require other factors be shown, such as
commingling of funds and other assets of the individual and the corporation,
failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records, or absence of
corporate assets and inadequate capitalization. There is no evidence that Mr.
Corral did not respect such formalities. 
 
Second,
there must be an inequitable result. “The second requirement for application of
the alter ego doctrine is a finding that the facts are such that adherence to
the fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud
or promote injustice. The test for this requirement is that if the acts are
treated as those of the corporation alone, it will produce an unjust or
inequitable result.” (Misik, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 1073; NEC Elecs. Inc. v. Hurt
(1989) 208 Cal. App. 3d 772, 777 [evidence discloses that Hurt depleted the
assets of debtor-corporation by receiving approximately $2.8 million in “loans”
and by using corporate moneys to pay for his personal expenses].)
Here, the
Court does not have sufficient evidence to conclude that Plaintiff is unable to
collect from Corral 360. The Court would expect some evidence showing that
Corral 360 lacks funds or is insolvent, such that Plaintiff cannot recover
against Corral 360. Plaintiff asserts that
Corral 360 is inadequately capitalized, has continued to fraudulently incur
more debts, has no significant assets, has not complied with any corporate
formalities, has no “stock register or corporate binder to indicate a de
minimis compliance” with corporate formalities, and oftentimes carries a
negative cash flow. Plaintiff makes these contentions without any evidentiary
support. Plaintiff only relies on the fact that Corral 360 is suspended from
doing business in California. While being suspended would be consistent with
being insolvent, it does not mean that Corral 360 has no assets, has any debts,
is fraudulently incurring more debts, or otherwise did not abide by corporate
formalities. Critically, without evidence of Corral 360’s finances, the court
cannot conclude that Mr. Corral is attempting to avoid liability entirely by
ensuring that Corral 360 wouldn’t have funds to pay the judgment. 
 
The Court
recognizes that Plaintiff has attempted to collect against Corral 360 via
certain post-judgment collection methods, including asking Mr. Corral for
payment and the above noted ORAP. Corral 360 failed to appear and Mr. Corral
stopped paying the judgment himself, thus complicating the collections process.
Further, the ORAP would have presumably gone into the capitalization and
finances of Corral 360. Thus, Corral 360 has impeded Plaintiff from seeking
discovery on this very issue. Be that as it may, the Court would still require additional
collection efforts against Corral 360, or more information on Correl 360’s
finances, corporate structure, and adherence to corporate formalities. While
Corral 360 is not forthcoming in fully satisfying the judgment, the current
record does not have sufficient evidence on the issue of inequity. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED without prejudice.