 Case Number:  21STCV38979    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cohen, v. Frye,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV38979
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions
HEARING DATE:   3/1/2024
 

Legal
Standard
 
            In
the absence of contrary court order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is
broad. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action . . . if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010;
see Davies v. Superior Court
(1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
must be brought based on responses to requests for admission that: (1) provide
evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make unmeritorious or overly-generalized
objections.  (CCP., § 2033.290(a).)
However, a motion to compel further responses cannot compel the admission of
matters already denied.  (Holguin v.
Superior Court (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 812, 821.)
 
            A motion to compel further must be
noticed within 45 days of the
service of a response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing. Otherwise, the propounding party waives any right
to compel further response to the inspection demand. (See, e.g., CCP §
2031.310(c).)  Motions to
compel further responses must always be accompanied by a meet-and confer declaration
(per CCP § 2016.040) demonstrating a “reasonable and good faith attempt an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §§
2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).) They must also be accompanied by a
separate statement containing the requests and the responses, verbatim, as well
as reasons why a further response is warranted. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a).) The
separate statement must also be complete in itself; no extrinsic materials may
be incorporated by reference. (CRC rule 3.1345(c).)
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or
failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Daniela Cohen moves to
compel Defendant Richard Jordan Frye (“Frye” or Defendant), to provide further
verified responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission,
Set One (RFAs) nos. 2, 3, 12-17, and 19. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
provided incomplete and improper answers to RFAs 2, 3, 12-17, and 19, despite
an order to provide further responses.
 
On March 25, 2022, Plaintiff served
her first set of discovery requests on the Defendant, including the subject
RFAs. (Moghadam Decl., ¶ 3.) On May 10, 2022, Defendant provided responses to
all discovery requests. (Id., Ex. B.) On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff moved to
compel further responses.  On May 15,
2023, the Court held an IDC regarding Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s
first set of discovery requests. On May 31, 2023, the Court granted the motion
to compel further responses as to nos. 2, 3, 12-17, and 19. The Court permitted
further answers within fifteen days.
 
On June 14, 2023, Defendant served
supplemental responses. (Id., Exs. D-E.) Plaintiff found the response to be
evasive. Counsel underwent additional meet and confer efforts, which were
unproductive. (Id., ¶¶ 12-14.) Defendant also refused to provide electronic/word
versions of Defendant’s discovery responses, to facilitate the drafting of
motions to compel. (Id., ¶ 15.) Defendant also provided supplemental responses
following this motion, on December 7, 2023. (See Keshishian Decl., ¶3, Ex. 20.)
 
Examining both the initial
supplemental responses, and the supplemental responses served on December 7,
2023, Defendant provided evasive and non-responsive responses to most of the
RFAs at issue. Further, some of the supplemental responses are identical in
substance to the initial supplemental responses. Thus, the newly-served
supplemental responses appear to be a bad faith tactic to avoid this motion. That
said, some of the supplemental responses are proper. Therefore, the Court will
turn to the merits of each request and the most-current supplemental response.
 
RFA no. 2 requests that defendant
admit: “You caused the automobile collision that is the subject of this
lawsuit.” Defendant provided the supplemental response “ADMIT in part as
Responding Party changed lanes from a left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel
and collided with Propounding Party, DENY in part as to causation.” This is an
evasive response. Defendant admits that he caused the subject collision by
changing lanes and colliding with Plaintiff but denies in part “as to causation.”
This denial is ambiguous as to whether Defendant means causation generally, or
some other unstated meaning of causation. Defendant’s denial “as to causation”
would contradict the initial admission of causation, i.e., that he caused the
collision at least in part. Defendant cannot, in one breath, admit to some causation,
and then deny causation entirely. Thus, a further response is required.
 
RFA no. 3 requests that defendant
admit: “You are solely responsible for the automobile collision that is the
subject of this lawsuit.” Defendant’s current supplemental response provides a
substantially similar response to his initial supplemental response. Both responses
state, to effect, “Defendant admits in part as Responding Party changed lanes
from a left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel and collided with Propounding
Party, DENY in part as to causation.” The Court agrees that this is an evasive
response. Defendant cannot deny the request “as to causation” when the request does
not seek information on causation, but on “sole responsib[ility],” which
differs from causation generally. Thus, a further response is required.
 
RFA no. 12 requests that defendant
admit: “You caused the automobile collision that is the subject of this lawsuit
by making a right turn from a left-turn-only designated lane.” Defendant
provides the supplemental response “DENY, as Responding Party was not making a
right turn, rather changing lanes.” The Court finds this to be a code-compliant
and straightforward response. Defendant denies that he caused the collision by
making a right turn from a left-turn-only lane, because he was not making a
right turn. No further response is necessary.
 
RFA no. 13 requests that defendant
admit: “You caused the automobile collision that is the subject of this lawsuit
by departing from a left-turn-only designated lane, during a ‘red arrow’
traffic light.” Defendant provided the supplemental response: “ADMIT in part as
Responding Party changed lanes from a left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel
and collided with Propounding Party, DENY in part as to causation.” Again, this
response is ambiguous as to the phrase “as to causation” and contradicts the
admission. The RFA seeks an admission that Defendant caused the collision in a
particular manner, i.e., by departing from a left-turn lane during a ‘red
arrow’ traffic light. The response ignores this question. Therefore, a further
response is required.  
 
RFA no. 14 requests that defendant
admit: “You caused the automobile collision that is the subject of this lawsuit
by making a right turn in violation of California Vehicle Code § 21461.” The
current supplemental response provides: “DENY, as Responding Party was not
making a right-turn.”  This is a
straightforward denial that Defendant caused the collision by making a right
turn in violation of a cited statute because he was not turning right. No
further response is required.
 
RFA no. 15 requests that defendant
admit: “You caused the automobile collision that is the subject of this lawsuit
by driving in violation of California Vehicle Code § 21461.” The current
supplemental response provides: “Defendant admits in part as Responding Party
changed lanes from a left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel and collided
with Propounding Party, DENY in part as to causation”. This response is
evasive. The RFA requests that he admit he caused the collision by driving in
violation of a cited statute. The response ignores this question, and denies an
irrelevant point. Therefore, a further response is required.
 
RFA no. 16 requests that defendant
admit: “You presently have no facts with which to dispute Plaintiff’s claim
that you were negligent in causing the automobile collision that is the subject
of this lawsuit.” Defendant’s current supplemental response provides the same
non-sequitur discussed above: “Defendant admits in part as Responding Party
changed lanes from a left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel and collided
with Propounding Party, DENY in part as to causation.” This admission does not
address the existence of any facts which would dispute Plaintiff’s claims of
negligence. The denial also ignores this question, and ambiguously denies
“causation” generally. A further response is required.
 
RFA no. 17 requests that defendant
admit: “You were negligent in causing the automobile collision that is the
subject of this lawsuit.” Defendant provides the deficient supplemental
response “Defendant admits in part as Responding Party changed lanes from a
left-turn only lane onto a lane of travel and collided with Propounding Party,
DENY in part as to causation.” As explained above, this response is ambiguous
as to causation, and does not address the call of the question. A further
response is required.
 
RFA no. 19 requests that defendant
admit: “You have no facts with which to dispute Plaintiff’s damages in this
lawsuit. Defendant provides the supplemental response: “Defendant admits in
part as Responding Party changed lanes from a left-turn only lane onto a lane
of travel and collided with Propounding Party, DENY in part as to causation.”  As stated several time, this is insufficient
and a further response is required.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to RFA nos. 2, 3, 13, 15-17, 19, and DENIED as to RFA nos. 12 and 14.
 
Sanctions are mandatory. The Court must
sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (See, e.g., CCP, § 2030.300(d).) 
 
Plaintiff provides evidence that she
incurred $7,613.50 in attorney’s fees and costs in connection with these
proceedings. (Moghadam Decl. ¶¶ 17-18.) Counsel spent 6.4 hours meeting and
conferring with opposing counsel regarding Defendant’s supplemental discovery responses,
5.1 hours preparing the instant motion, 7 hours reviewing the opposition and
preparing the reply thereto, plus an anticipated 1.0 hour for the hearing.
Counsel charges a rate of $485 per hour. In light of the entirety of the record,
and the mixed success on the motion, the Court finds that a reasonable fee in
this instance would be $4,365.00, plus costs. Accordingly, sanctions are
imposed in the reduced amount $4,425.00 against Defendants and their counsel of
record Natalie Keshishian, Chantalle Zakarian, Robyn S. Hosmer, and Law Offices
of Robyn S. Hosmer, jointly and severally.
 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days.  Further responses are ordered within 10 days.