 Case Number:  22STCV30547    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                4/15/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          22STCV30547 ROBERT WILLIAMSON vs GLS US FREIGHT, INC., et al
Motion:                              MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Moving Party:                 Defendant GLS US Freight
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Continuances of trials are generally disfavored,
but each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to
the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
(1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance
of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of
the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
 
Factual Background and Analysis
 
On September 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
personal injury case alleging that he was injured in a forklift injury. On
October 18, 2022, Defendants filed their answer. The trial date is currently
set for June 10, 2024. Defendants now request an additional three months to
conduct further discovery, including written discovery, an independent medical
examination (IME), and time to retain experts. Defendants argue they need additional
discovery because (1) Plaintiff did not appear for deposition until recently
and (2) they only recently became aware that Plaintiff contends that he suffered
a traumatic brain injury.  Defendants
also contend that their counsels are unavailable at the time of trial.  There has been one previous trial
continuance. 
 
Plaintiff opposes a continuance, countering
Defendants’ arguments as follows: (1) the delay in discovery was a result of
defense counsel insisting that the deposition of a defendant who has been unresponsive
go first; and (2) Plaintiff is not contending he has a traumatic brain injury.  Plaintiff also argues prejudice but fails to
articulate what that prejudice consists of. 
 
The Court is not persuaded a continuance is
necessary.  In particular, defendants
fail to provide sufficient information regarding a conflict, e.g., other
trial case numbers, estimated trial lengths, likelihood of trial, etc., for the
Court to determine the validity of this claim. The Court perceives that the
discovery delays were as much, if not more, a result of Defendants’ conduct that
of Plaintiff’s.  Accordingly, on the
bases provided, the motion is denied.  
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 