 Case Number:  23NWCV02022    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  C Moises, et al v.
ortiz, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02022
HEARING:   1/17/24 @ 9:30 AM
#5
 
The Toyota Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Toyota Financial Services
International Corporation, Toyota Motor Credit Corporation, and Toyota Lease
Trust (collectively the Toyota Defendants) demur to Plaintiffs Abraham Michelle
Suarez Mosies and Luis Alvarez Acosta’s (collectively Plaintiffs) Complaint on
the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action.
Background
Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint against the Toyota Defendants, Defendant Daniel Alejandro
Tomelic Ortiz (Ortiz), Uber Technologies, Inc., Raiser, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC
(collectively the Uber Defendants) for negligence and against the Toyota
Defendants and Uber Defendants negligent hiring and supervision. The Complaint
arises from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on December 1, 2021, where
Ortiz was allegedly driving while under the influence and caused his vehicle to
impact the rear of an unknown vehicle which fled the scene. The crash caused
significant and life-altering injuries to Plaintiffs who were passengers in
Ortiz’s vehicle.  Plaintiffs contend that
all Defendants created a joint venture to lease or rent vehicles and Ortiz was
acting within the course and scope of his employment or agency with the joint
venture at the time of the incident. The Complaint alleges the following:
24.
Plaintiffs are further informed and believe, and thereon allege, that TOYOTA
DEFENDANTS, UBER DEFENDANTS, ORTIZ DEFENDANTS, and/or and DOES 41 through 50,
inclusive, were agents, servants, employees, successors in interest, and/or
joint venturers of each other, and were, as such, acting within the course,
scope, and authority of said agency, employment and/or venture, and that those
Defendants, as aforesaid, when acting as a principal, was/were negligent in the
selection of each Defendant as an agent, servant, employee, successor in
interest, and/or joint venturer (hereinafter collectively also referred to as
“JOINT VENTURERS”). 
25.
The JOINT VENTURERS each had a joint interest in the common business of leasing
and or rental of vehicles, with an understanding to share profits and losses
and a right to joint control. 
26.
At all times herein mentioned, Defendants, and each of them, were the agents,
servants and employees of each other and acting within the scope of their
employment and agency as such.
Legal
Standard
The
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by
demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A
party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated
therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).) “‘[A] demurrer based on an affirmative defense will
be sustained only where the face of the complaint discloses that the action is
necessarily barred by the defense.’” (McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 78-79.)
Discussion

It is well established that 49 USC § 30106 (the
Graves Amendment), precludes liability for owners of motor vehicles in the
business of renting those vehicles. (See, e.g., Green v. Toyota Motor Credit
Corp., 605 F.Supp.2d 430 (E.D.N.Y. 2009).) Plaintiffs do not contest this
point. 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that the Toyota
Defendants are liable as joint venturers with Ortiz and the Uber Defendants to
lease vehicles to ride-share drivers. “A joint venture is an undertaking by two
or more persons jointly to carry out a single business enterprise for profit. [Citation.]
There must be a community of interest in the enterprise; a sharing of profits
and losses; and joint participation in the conduct of the business.” (Lasry
v. Lederman (1957) 147 Cal.App.2d 480, 485–486.) Plaintiffs allege that the
Defendants had a community of interest in their enterprise to lease or rent
vehicles, the parties shared profits and losses, and had joint control over the
business. (Compl. ¶ 25.) Further, Plaintiff alleges that Ortiz was acting
within the course and scope of his agency or employment of the joint venture at
the time of the incident giving rise to this action. (Compl. ¶¶ 24 and 26.) This
allegation is outside the scope of the Graves Amendment because it is not based
solely on Defendants’ ownership of the vehicle, but rather on Ortiz’s alleged
employment or agency with the joint venture. The fact that Plaintiff may not
have been working at the time of the collision is not contained within the four
corners of the Complaint.  As such, it
cannot be considered when ruling upon a demurrer.  Plaintiffs have stated a cause of action at
this stage where the allegations are liberally construed. (CCP § 452.) Thus,
Plaintiffs have adequately alleged their respondeat superior theory of
liability. 
Accordingly, the
Toyota Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 