  Case Number:  22NWCV00380    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  C Kim v. sekero one, inc. et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00380
HEARING:   1/17/23 @ 10:30 AM
#8
 
Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Sekero One, Inc, Sekero International,
Inc., and Haeun E. Choi’s (collectively the Moving Defendants) demur to each
cause of action on the grounds that each fails to state a claim and is
uncertain.
First Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract
Moving Defendants argue that this claim fails
because the alleged oral contract which is confirmed in writing is between
Plaintiff and Defendant Jong H. Choi. There is no alleged contract between Moving
Defendants and Plaintiff. This is now the third complaint in which Plaintiff
has failed to allege a contract between Plaintiff and Defendants Sekero One,
Inc. Sekero International, Inc, and Haeun E. Choi. Further, Plaintiff has
failed to provide any factual basis upon which the deficiencies in his
Complaint can be cured. Thus, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the First Cause of
Action is sustained without leave to amend.
Second Cause of Action – Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Moving Defendants argue that this claim fails
because a contractual relationship is a prerequisite and Plaintiff failed to
properly allege a contract.
“The prerequisite for any action for breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the existence of a
contractual relationship between the parties, since the covenant is an implied
term in the contract. [Citations Omitted.]” (Smith v. San Francisco (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)
Here, as indicated above, Plaintiff has failed
to properly allege the existence of a contractual relationship between the Moving
Defendants. Thus, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is sustained
without leave to amend.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
 