 Case Number:  BC675696    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion to Tax Costs
The motion is DENIED.
On September 14, 2017, plaintiffs Erika Valadez, Maria Estela Rosas and
Efren Lara (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant In-N-Out Burgers
(“Defendants”), and other employees of In-N-Out, alleging that Plaintiffs
Valadez and Rosas were sexually harassed by an assistant supervisor and
coworkers, and that all Plaintiffs experienced adverse employment actions after
complaining. 
In June 2018, this court granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
On January 12, 2022, the court confirmed Defendants’ arbitration award, as to
Plaintiff Valadez, which found in favor of Defendants as the case was barred by
the statute of limitations. Plaintiffs appealed.
On May 20, 2024, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur, affirming this
court’s ruling confirming the arbitration award. The Court of Appeal noted that
Defendants are awarded costs on appeal.
On June 27, 2024, Defendant In-N-Out filed a verified memorandum of costs,
listing costs in the amount of $1,810.37.
Plaintiffs filed a motion to motion to
strike the memorandum of costs.
Defendant In-N-Out opposes.
Motion to Strike
Costs
Plaintiffs argue that most or all the costs are unreasonable because
Defendants have not submitted documents such as invoices or receipts,
supporting all of its costs for printing and copying of briefs and
transmitting, filing, and serving of records, briefs, and other papers. Plaintiffs
request that Defendants be required to submit documents or other evidence in
support of its claimed amounts. Plaintiffs cite to Bach v. County of Butte (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308 for the proposition that documentation must be
submitted when a party dissatisfied with the costs claimed in the memorandum
challenges them by filing a motion to tax.
However, this argument
fails from the onset as “there [is] no requirement that copies of bills,
invoices, statements or any other such documents be attached to the
memorandum... To the contrary, a properly verified memorandum of costs is
considered prima
facie evidence
that the costs listed in the memorandum were necessarily incurred.” (Bach, supra, 215
Cal.App.3d at 308.)
 
The party
prevailing in the Court of Appeal in a civil case is entitled to costs on
appeal.  (CRC Rule 8.278(a)(1).)  Within 40 days after the issuance
of the remittitur the party claiming costs must serve and file in the superior
court a verified memorandum of costs under CRC Rule 3.1700 and a party may
serve and file a motion in the superior court to strike or tax costs pursuant
to CRC Rule 3.1700.  (CRC Rule 8.278(c)(1)-(2).)
“A party may recover only the following
costs, if reasonable: (A) Filing fees; (B) The amount the party paid for any
portion of the record, whether an original or a copy or both. The cost to copy
parts of a prior record under rule 8.147(b)(2) is not recoverable unless the
Court of Appeal ordered the copying; (C) The cost to produce additional
evidence on appeal; (D) The costs to notarize, serve, mail, and file the
record, briefs, and other papers (E) The cost to print and reproduce any brief,
including any petition for rehearing or review, answer, or reply; (F) The cost
to procure a surety bond, including the premium, the cost to obtain a letter of
credit as collateral, and the fees and net interest expenses incurred to borrow
funds to provide security for the bond or to obtain a letter of credit, unless
the trial court determines the bond was unnecessary; and (G) The fees and net
interest expenses incurred to borrow funds to deposit with the superior court
in lieu of a bond or undertaking, unless the trial court determines the deposit
was unnecessary.” CRC Rule 8.278(d)(1)(A)-(G) (emphasis added). 
“If the items appearing in a
cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to
tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.” (Ladas v.
California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761, 774.) If the
items appear to be proper expenses, they are themselves prima facie evidence
that the costs, expenses and services were necessarily incurred. If the items
appear proper, it is not enough for the losing party to attack submitted costs
by arguing that he thinks the costs were not necessary or reasonable. Rather,
the losing party has the burden to present evidence and prove that the claimed
costs are not recoverable. (Seever v. Copley Press Inc. (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.) However, when items claimed as costs do not appear on
their face as proper and necessary, and the items are properly challenged by a
motion to tax costs, the burden of establishing the necessity of the items is
on the party claiming them as costs. (See Id.; See also Whitney v.
Whitney (1958) 164 Cal.App.2d 577, 585.) “[I]f the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.” (Ladas, 19 Cal.App.4th at 774.)
Here, first, there is also no requirement that
supporting documentation, such as receipts, be submitted with the memo of
costs. (See Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1267.)
Nevertheless, in the opposition, Defendant submitted documentation. Plaintiff
has not filed a reply to assert any further argument.
Next, Defendant filed a verified memorandum of costs and the expenses appear
to be proper expenses. This is therefore prima facie evidence that the
costs were reasonably incurred. Thus, the burden of showing that the costs
sought were not reasonable or necessary is on Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs only argue
the costs are not reasonable and offer no declarations or other evidence in
support of the assertions. As discussed above, Plaintiff has the burden of
proof to show that the item of cost was not reasonably necessary for the
conduct of the litigation; mere conclusory assertions are insufficient to rebut
the prima facie showing costs are proper. (See Jones v. Dumrichob (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1266; County of Kern v. Ginn (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d
1107, 1113-14.) In sum, the court finds that Plaintiffs fail to meet their
burden of proof.
The only specific argument Plaintiffs make as to an item of costs is they
argue that under Item No. 3, Defendants seek recovery of $934.50 for
“preparation of reporter’s transcript.” Plaintiffs argue that while Defendants
provide supporting documentation allegedly substantiating these costs, the
invoice submitted is for the preparation of the original and one certified copy
of the transcript. Plaintiff continues that because only the certified copy was
prepared and utilized for appeal, to the extent that the court grants his cost,
Plaintiff should only be required to pay, at most, half of the amount
requested. 
However, the court finds that the expense was reasonably necessary. As
Defendant explains, a certified copy is only provided when ordering
an original transcript. (Fahimi Decl., ¶ 4.) Put another way, no
certified copy can be provided without paying for the original transcript.
In fact, there is no option to order just an original transcript or certified
copy, and the two must be purchased as a package. (Id.) Again,
Plaintiffs have not filed a reply to challenge Defendant’s statement.
As a result, the motion to strike costs is denied.
Conclusion
The motion to strike costs is denied.
There is no requirement to submit documentation to support the memorandum of costs;
nevertheless, Defendant did so in its opposition. Further, as Defendant filed a
verified memorandum of costs, the burden to submit evidence to show the costs
were not reasonably necessary was on Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs did not submit
any evidence to meet this burden, and merely made conclusory assertions. Even
if Plaintiffs did meet their burden, the court finds the costs were reasonably
necessary. 