  Case Number:  20STCV35154    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion for Terminating Sanctions
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED.
On September 15, 2020, Plaintiff Broadway Exchange Building, LP  (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Vianey Elizabeth Sanderson f/k/a Vianey Elizabeth Delgado, and Jigger P.
Mercado (“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for breach of lease and
breach of guaranty. 
The complaint alleges that Defendants entered into a commercial real estate
lease agreement with Plaintiff to lease Plaintiff’s commercial rental space for
five years, and that beginning in April 2020, while still in possession of the
Premises, Defendants stopped paying rent to Plaintiff and have continued since
that time to fail to pay rent for the Premises. 
Plaintiff filed a motion for terminating sanctions.
Defendant Sanderson opposes the motion.
Terminating Sanctions
Plaintiff moves for terminating sanctions on the
ground that Defendant Sanderson has repeatedly failed to comply with this court’s
orders to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions against Defendant.
Defendant argues in opposition that is an abuse of discretion for a trial
court to issue a terminating sanction for failure to pay the sanction. (Newland
v. Sup.Ct. (Sugasawara) (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 608, 610.)
“The discovery statutes
evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary
sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “Discovery sanctions
should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.” (Ibid.) “[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse.” (Ibid.) Where discovery violations are “willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules, the trial court is
justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.) A trial court has
broad discretion to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a
prerequisite to the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon
Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions
are requested against a party, there must be a failure to comply with a court
order and the failure must be willful. (Ibid.)   
“A decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.” (Creed-21 v. City of
Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.) A trial court’s order to impose
terminating sanctions will be reversed only if it “was arbitrary, capricious,
or whimsical.” (Id. at 702.)  “[W]here a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Id. at p. 702.)
Trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have
willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. (Los Defensores, Inc. v.
Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating sanctions are warranted
when a party’s lack of compliance with the discovery process has caused the
opposing party prejudice. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 989.) 
The court
notes that the motion is moot as Defendant has stated she paid the sanctions
and no reply has been filed to dispute this assertion. In any event, even if it
were not moot, Defendant is correct that a court may not issue a terminating
sanction for failure to pay a monetary discovery sanction. ¿(Newland v.
Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 610, 615.)¿ A monetary sanction
order is enforceable as a money judgment under the Enforcement of Judgments
Law, CCP §§680.010, et seq.  (Id. at 615.)  These orders have the
force and effect of a money judgment, and are immediately enforceable through
execution. (Id.)
Lastly, as Plaintiff could have enforced the sanctions
order as a money judgment, the Court declines to impose additional monetary
sanctions for Defendant’s failure to pay court ordered sanctions.
As a result, the motion for terminating and monetary
sanctions is denied as moot.
Contempt
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant Sanderson and her
counsel should be held in contempt for their failure to pay the sanctions.
Defendant argues to the extent that Plaintiff seeks to hold Defendant in
contempt, it has not followed the required procedure and the Court has not
issued an OSC Re: Contempt. Further, Defendant argues she paid the sanctions.
The contempt at issue is “indirect,” which requires a more
elaborate procedure to notify the person(s) sought to be charged and to allow
him or her an opportunity to be heard.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1211–1218;
see also Hanson v. Superior Court, supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at p.
81.)  “An affidavit must be presented to the court stating the facts
constituting the contempt, an order to show cause must be issued, and hearing
on the facts must be held by the judge.”  (Arthur v. Superior Court
(1965) 62 Cal.2d 404, 407-408.)  Since the acts involved did not occur in
the court’s presence, the affidavit (declaration) must cover each element of
the commission of the contempt.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1211.5.)  This
affidavit serves as the “complaint” in indirect contempt proceeding (Lyon v.
Superior Court (1968) 68 Cal.2d 446, 452) and must contain factual
allegations based on firsthand knowledge. 
 
In indirect contempt proceedings based on disobedience of a
prior court order, a valid judgment must meet “strict requirements.”¿ Each of
the following must be established: (1) the rendition of a valid court order;
(2) actual knowledge of the order; (3) ability to comply; and (4) willful
disobedience of the order.  (Conn v. Superior Court (1987) 196
Cal.App.3d 774, 784 [repeated failures to turn over documents as
ordered].)  Upon receipt of the affidavit, the court usually issues an
order to show cause (OSC) why the person should not be held in contempt. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1212.)  Although not required, the alleged contemnor
may respond to the affidavit and OSC by counteraffidavits or declarations.  These affidavits serve as the
“answer” to the charging allegations in the original affidavit. (Lyon v.
Superior Court, supra, 68 Cal.2d at p. 452.)  Such affidavits are not
mandatory, however. The alleged contemnor may assert his or her defenses
entirely at the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1217.) 
 
Here, there is no evidence showing
Defendant had the ability to comply with the court orders and whether she
willfully disobeyed the court order. Further, as noted above, the motion is
moot because Defendant has paid the sanctions.
Additionally, the Court notes that contempt would not be
proper here when the issue is a failure to pay monetary sanctions, which does
not tend to impede, embarrass, or obstruct the court’s discharge of its
duties.  (In re Shortridge (1893) 99 Cal. 526, 532.)  Rather,
as noted above for the motion for terminating sanctions, the proper recourse to
recover sanctions would be for Plaintiff to enforce the sanctions order as a
money judgment pursuant to the Enforcement of Judgments Law (CCP sections
680.010, et seq.).  (See Newland, supra 40 Cal.App.4th at 615
(stating that monetary sanction orders are enforceable as money judgments
through the execution of judgment laws); Jones v. Otero (1984) 156
Cal.App.3d 754, 759; Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group, June 2020 Update), ¶ 8:2031.)  
 
Accordingly, the motion to hold Defendant in contempt is denied. 
 
Conclusion
The motion for terminating and monetary sanctions and to
hold Defendant in contempt is denied as Defendant has paid the sanctions, and
even if she had not, the proper recourse to recover
sanctions would be for Plaintiff to enforce the sanctions order as a money
judgment pursuant to the Enforcement of Judgments Law.
 