  Case Number:  20SMCV00998    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   SHEGERIAN & ASSOCIATES, APC f/k/a SHEGERIAN & ASSOCIATES, INC..,    Plaintiff, v.  HIGH NOON OFFICE, LLC, et al.,    Defendant.    Case No.:  20SMCV00998     Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024   ORDER RE:   CROSS-DEFENDANT SHEGERIAN &    ASSOCIATES’ MOTION TO RENEW    MOTIONS FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE    PLEADINGS      BACKGROUND This action arises from a breach of a commercial lease.  Defendant High Noon Office, LLC is the Landlord, and Plaintiff Shegerian & Associates APC f/k/a Shegerian & Associates Inc. is the Tenant.  Tenant leases the 4th and 7th floors of a commercial office building known as the Clocktower Building, located at 225 Santa Monica Boulevard, Santa Monica, California (the “Property”).  Tenant brought an action to seek a declaration excusing its failure to pay rent for the 7th floor based on an interpretation of the Lease that this Court found would yield “absurd results.”  This Court sustained Landlord’s demurrer of the original and amended complaints, finding “[t]here [was] no actual controversy alleged here, as plaintiff’s interpretation [was] forced and unreasonable.”  The Court sustained the demurrer to the amended complaint without leave to amend because Tenant agreed it had no other claims to levy.  (Ex. B to Cook Decl.)  Only Landlord’s cross-complaint remains before the Court.  The cross-complaint against Tenant, alleges four causes of action for (1) declaratory relief – commencement of the 7th Floor Lease, (2) breach of contract and declaratory relief for failure to pay rent, (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (4) declaratory relief allowing collection of rent pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code §1951.4.   This hearing is on Tenant’s motion to renew its motion to amend complaint or for leave to file a cross-complaint and motion to amend answer.  Tenant seeks leave to add nine claims and eleven affirmative defenses based on Landlord’s purported failure to disclose that the Building contained a diesel generator which produced carcinogenic chemicals.   The Court previously denied the motions concluding they were filed in bad faith to prevent Landlord from being able to prevail on its then-pending motion for summary judgment, and “Landlord would be prejudiced by having its motion for summary judgment likely rendered ineffective by the multiplication of claims and defenses by Tenant and by possibly having to re-open discovery after discovery has already closed.”   Thereafter, the Court issued its ruling denying Landlord’s motion for summary judgment and granting and denying in part Landlord’s motion for summary adjudication.  (Ex. 2 to Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”).)  The Tenant now argues the Court’s denial of Landlord’s motion for summary judgment is a new fact or circumstance warranting the grant of its previously denied motions to amend.  Because Landlord’s motion for summary judgment was denied, Tenant reasons Landlord will not be prejudiced by the proposed amendments.   LEGAL STANDARD  Under Code Civ. Proc. §1008(b), a party who originally made an application for an order which was denied may make a subsequent application for the same order.¿ The application must be based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law, and be made to the same judge that made the order.¿ The party making the application must state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.¿ The language of Code Civ. Proc. §1008(e) makes it absolutely clear that a Court’s power to hear successive motions is restricted to motions that comply with Code Civ. Proc. §1008, subdivisions (a) and (b).¿ (Scott Co. v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Ins. Co. (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 197, 211.)  Section 1008(b) contains no 10 day time limit.  (Rowan v. Kirkpatrick (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 289, 296.)   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Landlord requests judicial notice of (1) the Court’s August 31, 2023 minute order denying Tenant’s motion for leave to amend, (2) the Court’s November 28, 2023 minute order denying Landlord’s motion for summary judgment and granting in part and denying in part Landlord’s motion for summary adjudication, and (3) the omnibus declaration of Brian Cook in support of Landlord’s opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings, motion for leave to amend the First Amended Complaint and motion for leave to amend the Verified Answer.  The Court grants the request as to the two minute orders pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§452(d) and 453.  As to the declaration, the Court denies the request as unnecessary.  Landlord may simply re-file the declaration in support of its opposition.   DISCUSSION Tenant argues that the Court’s denial of the motion for summary judgment is a new fact or circumstance warranting renewal of its motions to amend its complaint and answer.  The Court disagrees. While the Court denied Landlord’s motion for summary judgment, it granted summary adjudication as to most affirmative defenses asserted by Tenant.  Accordingly, it is still the case that Tenant’s motions to amend would have prejudiced Landlord from being able to prevail on its motion for summary adjudication as it would have multiplied the defenses to which Landlord needed to respond and it would have resulted in the reopening of discovery after discovery had already closed.         CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Tenant’s motion to renew its motions to amend the complaint and answer to the cross-complaint.    DATED: February 22, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 