

            
            This case arises out
of the termination of the alleged employer-employee relationship between
Plaintiff Dominic Adua Nyaaba (“Nyaaba” or “Plaintiff”) and Defendant Quility-Asurea
Agency Insurance Services, LLC (“Quility” or “Defendant”) which Plaintiff
alleges terminated in a breach of contract on July 20, 2021.  On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff sued Defendant Quility,
alleging causes of action for (1) loss of wages; (2) battery; (3) assault(s);
(4) negligence; (5) negligence-harassment, duress; (6) emotional distress; and
(7) compensatory damages.[1]  The Complaint further alleges damages for
$165,000, to compensate Plaintiff for wrongful termination and being asked to
leave because Defendant Quility did not want to pay Plaintiff Nyaaba
commissions.  (Compl. at p. 3.)
 
            Defendant Quility now demurs to
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of contract, second cause of
action for negligence, and other causes of action for lost wages, battery, assault,
and wrongful termination because Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action and
demonstrates uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e)
and (f).   (CCP §430.10(e)-(f).)
 
            Defendant filed the instant Demurrer
on March 25, 2024.  On April 26, 2024,
the Court issued a Minute Order, continuing the Hearing on the Demurrer
previously scheduled to May 7, 2024 to May 8, 2024.  Plaintiff filed an Opposition or “Answer” to
Defendant’s demurrer on April 29, 2024.[2]  Defendant filed their Reply on May 1, 2024, requesting
the Court strike Plaintiff’s Answer to Demurrer for being untimely. 
 
            The
Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
Legal
Standard for Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the
grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
. . . .” ’ ”   (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Uncertainty 
 
            Defendant argues that the first, second, and
“other causes of action for lost wages, battery, assault, and wrongful
termination” are uncertain.  A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.  (Williams v. Beechnut
Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  The Court finds that the Complaint is
uncertain, as the allegations are not meaningfully and intelligibly discussed
and do not provide facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
 
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
            Defendant Quility
asserts that Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to state a breach of
contract claim because it is unclear as to (1) whether a written contract was
even formed, (2) whether Quility or Plaintiff signed any agreement, or (3)
whether Quility was even a party to the agreement.  
 
To prevail on a cause of action for breach of
contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.). 
 
 
            The Complaint alleges that the
essential terms of such contract are the following:
 
Income
Goal: $100,000.
Number of weeks to reach income goal: 48 Sold list 40
Place premium $1,500 average premium 
My
lead costs=$20,000 annually 
Commission Advanced =$75,000 16


(Compl., ¶ C-2.)
 
Defendant notes that Plaintiff has
provided no extrinsic evidence of such a contract but argues that the contract
was breached because he was: abused, harassed, assaulted, and batter[ed]” when
“Elmer pursued me to the fisrt [sic] floor and commanded me not to return.”
(Compl., ¶ BC-2).  Plaintiff also alleges
that “Josh asked me to leave because they did not want to pay me
commissions.  Andy, Krystal, Chadd Parker
and other employees screamed at me and made fist [sic] of rage. Andy had a hun
[sic] in his car.”  (Complaint, ¶ BC-2).  Plaintiff contends that he is owed
“165,700.00” in damages resulting from purported loss of wages at $100,000 per
year and other vague allegations concerning commissions and leads.” (Id. ¶
BC-6.)
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action because Plaintiff has not demonstrated the
existence of a contract or a meeting of the minds.  Without establishing the existence of a
contract and/or the terms of the contract, Plaintiff has not established a
breach. Further, Plaintiff’s allegations are unintelligible. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer as to the first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Second
Cause of Action – General Negligence
 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence
are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach
of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917 [50 Cal.Rptr.2d 309, 911 P.2d 496].)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
facts in support of a cause of action for negligence are virtually
incomprehensible and cites Ankey v. Lockheed Missiles and Space Co. (1979)
88 Cal.App.3d 531 [the essential facts upon which a determination of the
controversy depends should be stated with clearness and precision so that
nothing it left to surmise; recitals, references to, or allegations of material
facts which are left to surmise are subject to special demurrer for uncertainty].)  
The complaint fails to identify Defendant Quility’s
duty of care or breach of duty, and does not allege facts of causation or
injury.  Plaintiff’s references to
discrimination, loss of wages, assaults, and batteries are vague,
unintelligible, and insufficient to demonstrate the elements of a negligence
cause of action.  
Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer as to the second cause of action. 
 
Other
Causes of Action – Lost Wages, Battery, Assault, & Wrongful Termination
 
Lost Wages
 
“Requiring the plaintiff to prove future economic
losses are reasonably certain ‘ensures that the jury’s fixing of damages is not
wholly, and thus impermissibly, speculative.’”  (Atkins v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 696, 738 [214 Cal.Rptr.3d 113].)
 
            Defendant
argues that “Plaintiff’s purported damages are insufficiently pled because the
muddled facts do not support how or why he would be entitled to $100,000 in
lost wages, commissions, and/or leads in the first place.  (Demurrer at p. 7.). Moreover, it is unclear
what Plaintiff means by “income goal,” “solid list,” “lead costs,” or
“Commission Advanced.” 
 
            Plaintiff
has not pleaded the payment of past wages or a payment schedule that would
entitle Plaintiff to damages in the form of lost wages.  Plaintiff has also not established a contract
entitling Plaintiff to any such wages or that Plaintiff was wrongfully
terminated and thus, owed future loss of income. There is no allegation of a
contract providing Plaintiff with wages. 
 
            Thus,
the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer as to the cause of action for lost
wages. 
 
 
Battery
 
            “The elements of a
cause of action for battery are: (1) the defendant touched the plaintiff, or
caused the plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend the
plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) the plaintiff
was harmed or offended by the defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person
in the plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching.”  (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 879, 890
 
Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendant Quility
battered Plaintiff.  (Demurrer at p.
8.)  Plaintiff merely states that “Elmer”
pursued Plaintiff to the first floor and commanded him “not to return.”  (Compl. at p. 3.)  
 
            The
Court notes that Plaintiff states “Prior to that date Josh asked me to leave
because they did not want to pay me commissions. Andy, Krystal, Chadd Parker,
and other employees screamed at me and made fist of rage.  Andy had a hun in his car.”  (Compl. at p. 1.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges no physical touching that
constitutes any form of harmful or offensive conduct.  Plaintiff does not assert Defendant(s) made
any form of contact with him.  The
demurrer to the cause of action for battery is sustained. 
            
 
Assault 
“The essential elements of a cause of action for
assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2)
plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
668-669.)
 
            Plaintiff
fails to allege how Defendant Quility battered Plaintiff and allegations about
being pursued to the first floor or being screamed at do not establish
Defendant was acting with intent to cause harmful or offensive conduct or
threatened Plaintiff such that Plaintiff reasonably believed Defendant was
about to carry out a threat. 
 
            The
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer as to the cause of action for assault. 
 
Wrongful Termination
            
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the
employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.”  (Garcia-Brower
v. Premier Automotive Imports of CA, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 961, 973.)
 
            Defendant
argues there are no specific allegations that Defendant Quility employed
Plaintiff, that Quility terminated Plaintiff, what position Plaintiff held, or
what public policy was violated. 
(Demurrer at pp. 8-9.)
            
            Again,
Plaintiff has provided no facts demonstrating an employer-employee relationship
existed between Defendant and Plaintiff. 
As such, the Court cannot find a cause of action for wrongful
termination. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer as to the cause of action for wrongful
termination. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained. Plaintiff shall have
leave to amend.  The amended complaint
shall be served and filed on or before May 17, 2024.
 
 
 
 
 
 


