


[1] Referred to in the Complaint as
“Dealer”.


[2] Referred to in the Complaint as
“Holder”.


[3] The Eighth Cause of Action is
asserted against Safeco and Does 71-75 only.


[4] The court tracks the arguments raised
in Defendants’ demurrer and thus begins with Plaintiff’s Fraud Causes of
Action. 
 


[5] Vehicle Code section 11713.18 provides: 
 
It is a violation of this code for
the holder of any dealer’s license issued under this article to advertise for
sale or sell a used vehicle as “certified” or use any similar descriptive term
in the advertisement or the sale of a used vehicle that implies the vehicle has
been certified to meet the terms of a used vehicle certification program if any
of the following apply:
 
 (6) Prior to sale, the dealer fails to provide
the buyer with a completed inspection report indicating all the components
inspected. 
 
(9) The term “certified” or any
similar descriptive term is used in any manner that is untrue or misleading or
that would cause any advertisement to be in violation of subdivision (a) of
Section 11713[5]
of this code or Section 17200[5] or 17500 of the Business and
Professions Code.
 
(Veh. Code, § 11713.18, subd.
(a)(6), (9), footnotes added.)  
 
If the crux of
Plaintiff’s allegations was that the use of “certified” necessarily means that
a used vehicle does not have an accident history, Vehicle Code section 11713.18
does not support that construction. 
Section 11713.18 requires that a dealer provide a buyer with a completed
inspection report (subdivision (a)(6)), and prohibits the use of the term
“certified” in a manner that is untrue or misleading (subdivision (a)(9)).  Under Section 11713.18, the term “certified” does
not mean that a used vehicle has never been in a prior accident; nor is the reference
to the term in this regard misleading. 
Plaintiff does not allege that the Subject Vehicle failed to pass the
certification inspection or that CarMax Auto failed to provide Plaintiff with a
completed inspection report.  And
tellingly, she does not allege whether the inspection report includes a review
of the Subject Vehicle’s accident history.  Further, there is no authority which states
that the “certified” designation cannot be applied to a vehicle that was
previously involved in an accident. 
 


[6] A “buy-here-pay-here” dealer is a
dealer, as defined in Section 285, who is not otherwise expressly excluded
by Section 241.1, and who does all of the following:
(a)
Enters into conditional sale contracts, within the meaning of subdivision
(a) of Section 2981 of the Civil Code, and subject to the provisions of Chapter
2b (commencing with Section 2981) of Title 14 of Part 4 of Division 3 of
the Civil Code, or lease contracts, within the meaning of Section 2985.7
of the Civil Code, and subject to the provisions of Chapter 2d (commencing
with Section 2985.7) of Title 14 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil
Code.
(b)
Assigns less than 90 percent of all unrescinded conditional sale contracts and
lease contracts to unaffiliated third-party finance or leasing sources within
45 days of the consummation of those contracts.
(c)
For purposes of this section, a conditional sale contract does not include a
contract for the sale of a motor vehicle if all amounts owed under the contract
are paid in full within 30 days.
(d)
The department may promulgate regulations as necessary to implement this
section.
 

