  Case Number:  22STCV09188    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger,
Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 12, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  Not Set
                                                           
CASE: 
                       Maria Hernandez v. Kia America, Inc.
 
CASE
NO.:                 22STCV09188
 





















 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Kia America, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
    Plaintiff Maria Hernandez                                          
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            This is a lemon law case. 
Plaintiff Maria Hernandez (“Plaintiff” or “Hernandez”) purchased a 2020
Kia Forte (“Vehicle”) from Kia of Carson (“Dealer”) on February 18, 2020.  The Vehicle had an express warranty.  Plaintiff alleges the Vehicle’s air
conditioning system was defective.  She
presented the Vehicle to an authorized Kia repair facility for repair.  However, the repair facility was unable to
conform the Vehicle to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable
number of attempts.  The Vehicle
qualified as a “lemon” under the Song-Beverly Act (the “Act”).  Plaintiff demanded that Defendant Kia
America, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Kia”) repurchase the Vehicle.  Three weeks after the demand was made, Kia
offered Plaintiff two options: repurchase of the Vehicle or restitution.  Plaintiff did not accept either offer.  This suit followed.
 
On March 15, 2022, Hernandez filed a Complaint against
Kia for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Express Warranty, and (2)
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Implied Warranty.
 
            Kia timely filed this Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Kia replied.      
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to
make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  A moving
defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of
action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at p.
855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.) 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court
must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than
to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  “Put another
way, have defendants conclusively negated a necessary element of the
[plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material
issue of fact that requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)   
III.      EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            In its Reply, Kia submits two objections
to the Declaration of Jeffery Mukai. 
Specifically, Kia objects to (1) Exhibit 1 of the Mukai Declaration and
(2) Exhibits 4 and 6 of the Mukai Declaration. 

 
The Court need not rule on Kia’s objection to Exhibit 1
of the Mukai Declaration because it is not material to the disposition of the
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
 
As to Kia’s second objection, it is well-founded.  Exhibit 6 is a deposition transcript of a
witness in the matter of Treptow v. Kia
Motors America, Inc., Case No. CVPS2104074. 
Attached to the deposition transcript is a “release agreement template”
which is separately attached to the Mukai Declaration as Exhibit 4.  Plaintiff relies on Exhibit 4 to argue that Kia’s
pre-litigation offer to repurchase/pay restitution for the Vehicle would have
included the release agreement template. 
Plaintiff further argues that the release agreement is illegal.  Exhibits 4 and 6 are objectionable on multiple
grounds.  As Kia correctly contends, these documents lack authentication, foundation,
appear to be part of settlement discussions, and are hearsay.  (Evid. Code, §§ 403, 702, subd. (a), 1152,
subd. (a), 1400, 1401.)  
 
Accordingly, objection #2 relating to Exhibits 4 and 6 of the Mukai Declaration is
SUSTAINED.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
Undisputed Material Facts
 
The following facts are not in dispute: In 2020, Plaintiff
purchased the Vehicle at the cash price of $20,500.  (Kia’s Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 3.)  Plaintiff purchased additional option
contracts and gap insurance from the Dealer in the total sum of $4,695.00.  (Id.) 
On October 4, 2021, Plaintiff contacted Kia customer service to discuss
concerns with repairs of the Vehicle. 
She informed the customer service that she did not want to keep the Vehicle
because she believed it was a lemon. 
(UMF 16.)  On October 12, 2021, at
Plaintiff’s request, a Spanish-speaking representative contacted Plaintiff to
discuss her concerns with the Vehicle. 
(UMF 18.)  Plaintiff requested
that the Vehicle be evaluated for a buy-back. 
(Id.)  The Kia
representative explained to Plaintiff it would take two to three weeks to evaluate
the buy-back request and requested documents from Plaintiff.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff provided the documents on October 14, 2021.  (UMF 19.) 
A Kia representative contacted Plaintiff on October 18, 2021 to inform
Plaintiff would take between one and three weeks to review Plaintiff’s case.  (UMF 20.) 
On October 25, 2021, a Kia representative emailed Plaintiff a letter
which stated the following: 
 
“We would like to make the following
offer to either repurchase, or repair your vehicle. All options will require a
signed settlement release agreement. Please review these options:
 
Option #1 - Repurchase of your vehicle: 
 
Est. 20 Payments of $441.37 Each (subject to
verification)              $8,827.40 
Subtotal                                                                                               $8,827.40

Less Optional Service Contract: Power Protect*                               ($1,750.00) 
Less Optional Service Contract: Power Protect*                               ($1,750.00) 
Less Optional Gap Contract*                                                             ($895.00)

Less Optional Surface Protection: Portfolio*                                     ($300.00) 
Less Mileage Deduction (based on 8,001 miles)                                ($1,366.84) 
 
Total Settlement Amount for Option #1*                                           $2,765.56
 
*In addition, Kia America will pay off
the underlying vehicle loan. You may be entitled to a refund for any unused
portion of an extended service contract or insurance product, if applicable.
See a Kia dealer for cancellation information.
 
Option #2 - Goodwill:
 
Kia will pay you the sum of four
thousand dollars ($4,000.00) as a onetime goodwill gesture. You would keep the
vehicle and accept this offer as full settlement of your concerns. The balance
of any remaining Kia warranties on your vehicle would remain in full effect per
the terms and limitations outlined in the Kia Warranty and Consumer Information
Manual issued for your vehicle. Options #1 is contingent on the physical
inspection of the vehicle for damage and/or excessive wear and tear. A
cashier’s check made payable to Kia America, Inc., for any damages beyond
normal wear and tear will be required prior to Kia’s fulfillment of the terms
contained in this settlement. 
 
(UMF 23.)  
 
On December 13, 2021, after Plaintiff did not respond to Kia’s
repurchase offer, a Kia representative contacted Plaintiff.  Plaintiff stated she wanted to hire a lawyer
because she did not like the offer.  The
Kia representative informed Plaintiff that the offer was negotiable.  However, when asked, Plaintiff stated she did
not have a number in mind.  (UMF 25.)  Kia did not receive further contact from
Plaintiff prior to the filing of this lawsuit on March 15, 2022. (UMF 26.)  In all, Plaintiff brought the Vehicle for
repair 10 times prior to sitting for deposition.  (UMF 5-12.) 
Plaintiff complained of problems with the Vehicle’s air conditioning on
five occasions.  (See UMF 6, 7, 9, 12,
13.)
 
Analysis 
 
Kia argues it is entitled to summary judgment because it
fulfilled its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act (Act) by making a prompt
and reasonable offer to repurchase the Vehicle from Plaintiff which Plaintiff
refused to accept or negotiate. 
Alternatively, Kia seeks summary adjudication of the following issues:
(1) whether the First Cause of Action fails because Plaintiff refused Kia’s
pre-litigation offer to repurchase the Vehicle; (2) whether the Second Cause of
Action fails because Plaintiff refused Kia’s pre-litigation offer to repurchase
the Vehicle, (3) whether Plaintiff can show Kia acted willfully in handling
repairs of the Vehicle and Plaintiff’s repurchase request; and (4) whether
Plaintiff’s claims for attorneys’ fees and costs can be deemed reasonably
incurred because Kia promptly offered to repurchase the Vehicle.  The court addresses each argument in turn.
 
Summary Judgment and Issues 1 and 2: Whether Kia’s
Pre-litigation Offer Entitles Kia to Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
of the First Two Causes of Action. 
 
Section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2) sets forth the
manufacturer's affirmative obligation to “promptly” repurchase or replace a
defective vehicle it is unable to repair, providing that if a manufacturer is
“unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle ... to conform to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the
manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance
with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance
with subparagraph (B).”  In turn, the restitution
remedy in section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2)(B) states that “the manufacturer
shall make restitution in an amount equal to the actual price paid or payable
by the buyer, ... including any collateral charges such as sales or use tax,
license fees, registration fees, and other official fees, plus any incidental
damages to which the buyer is entitled under Section 1794, including, but not
limited to, reasonable repair, towing, and rental car costs actually incurred
by the buyer.”  (Kirzhner v.
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2020) 9 Cal.5th 966, 971.)
 
The promptness of the offer is not in dispute.[1]  Kia argues summary judgment (and summary
adjudication of the first two causes of action) is warranted because “Plaintiff
ignored a reasonable offer to repurchase the Vehicle.”  (Def. Mtn. at p. 6.)  Kia’s argument stumbles out of the gate.  Notably, Plaintiff did not ignore Kia’s
offer.  Plaintiff stated she did not like
the offer, and she wanted to hire an attorney. 
(UMF 25.)  To prevail, Kia must
show that Plaintiff’s failure to accept Kia’s offer disqualifies her, as a
matter of law, from relief under the Act. 
Kia fails to cite any authority for such a position.  For the most part, Kia centers its argument on
Dominguez v. American Suzuki Motor Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 53 (Dominguez).  
 
            In Dominguez,
the Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s denial of summary judgment.  The facts justify the reversal.  Dominguez purchased a new 2004 Suzuki DL 1000
(Motorcycle) for $8,780.41.  Over the next six months, Dominguez submitted
the motorcycle for repair at least five times. 
 Dominquez engaged counsel who
requested that Suzuki repurchase or replace the motorcycle.  Six weeks later, Suzuki offered to repurchase
the motorcycle for $8,780.41, the full purchase price.  Suzuki did not place any conditions or qualifications
on its offer to repurchase the motorcycle. 
The sticking point became the attorney’s fees and costs.  The appellate court stated, “Section 1793.2,
subdivision (d)(1), requires a manufacturer that cannot repair consumer goods
after a reasonable number of attempts to ‘either replace the goods or reimburse
the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer....’ That
is what happened here.” (Dominguez, supra, 160
Cal.App.4th at p. 59.) 
 
            By comparison, that is not what happened here.  Kia did not make an unconditional and unequivocal
offer to repurchase the car.  As
Plaintiff points out, Kia’s offer included several conditional terms.  First, Kia stated that, “All options will
require a signed settlement release agreement.”  (UMF 23.) 
That settlement release agreement, however, was not included in the
offer.[2]
 The terms are unknown.  Unknown terms are certainly grounds to reject
the offer.  Second, the asterisk accompanying
the total settlement amount states that: “In addition, Kia America will pay off
the underlying vehicle loan.  You may be
entitled to a refund for any unused portion of an extended service contract or
insurance product, if applicable.  See a
Kia dealer for cancellation information.”  (UMF 23.) 
 Here too, the terms are
unknown.  Finally, the offer states that
Option #1 (which is the repurchase option) “is contingent on the physical
inspection of the vehicle for damage and/or excessive wear and tear.  A cashier’s check made payable to Kia America,
Inc., for any damage beyond normal wear and tear will be required prior to
Kia’s fulfillment of the terms contained in this settlement.” (UMF 23.)  This contingency is fraught with problems.  It’s unclear who will conduct the physical
inspection; what constitutes excessive wear and tear; and whether plaintiff can
challenge the amount.  These qualifications
and contingencies distinguish this case significantly from the flat-out, unencumbered
offer made to repurchase Dominguez’s motorcycle, for the full purchase price.[3]
 Based upon these vagaries, Kia’s offer
was not, as the court said in Dominguez, an offer to “either replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an
amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer....” (Dominguez, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th at p. 59.) 
 
            Plaintiff was entitled to reject the offer and seek
assistance of counsel.[4]  In a slightly different context involving 998
offers, the court in Etcheson v. FCA US LLC (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th
831, reversed a trial court’s reduction of attorney’s fees.  The reasonableness of the defendant’s offer
was relevant to the court’s consideration of the issues.  The court of appeal, reviewing several other
cases stated, “[t]he import of both Goglin and McKenzie is that where a
defendant's settlement offer contains unfavorable provisions or is otherwise
invalid, as FCA's offers were here, it is not unreasonable for a plaintiff to
reject that offer.” (Id. at pp. 845–846.)  The Court of Appeal pointed out that the plaintiff was correct to reject
both offers: the first, because it required plaintiffs to sign a release
without stating any release terms; the second, because it was insufficiently
specific. (Etcheson, at p. 846.) 
Both problems are present here with Kia’s prelitigation offer.  Plaintiff did not act unreasonably when she
rejected the offer and sought the assistance of counsel.      
 
            Defendant
has not established that its offer satisfies the requirements of the Act as a
matter of law.[5]
 Recognizing its offer had deficiencies
and maybe too low, Defendant then faults Plaintiff for failing to negotiate
over the terms.  Defendant fails to cite
any authority for the proposition that a Plaintiff is obligated under the Act
to negotiate over the terms to obtain relief or prior to seeking the assistance
of counsel.     
 
            Defendant’s
motion summary judgment and summary adjudication of the first two causes of
action is denied. 
 
Issue 3: Whether Kia Acted Willfully in Handling Repairs
of the Vehicle and Plaintiff’s Repurchase Request
 
Kia argues summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s civil
penalties claim is warranted because Kia did not refuse to repurchase or
replace the vehicle.  As such, there is
no evidence of willful conduct to support imposition of civil penalties under
the Act.
 
“If the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was
willful, the judgment may include, in addition to the amounts recovered under
subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not exceed two times the amount of
actual damages. This subdivision shall not apply in any class action under
Section 382 of the Code of Civil Procedure or under Section 1781, or with
respect to a claim based solely on a breach of an implied warranty.”  (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).) 
 
 A manufacturer’s
noncompliance is “willful” when it knows “of its obligations but intentionally
decline[s] to fulfill them.” (Schreidel v. American Honda Motor Co. (1995)
34 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1249, 1250, quotations omitted.)  “[A] violation is not willful if the
defendant’s failure to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and
reasonable belief the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present.
 This might be the case, for example, if
the manufacturer reasonably believed the product did conform to the
warranty, or a reasonable number of repair attempts had not been made, or the
buyer desired further repair rather than replacement or refund.  [¶] Our interpretation of section 1794(c) is
consistent with the general policy against imposing forfeitures or penalties
against parties for their good faith, reasonable actions.”  (Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of N. Am., Inc.
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 185.)
 
Here, it is undisputed that Kia offered to repurchase Hernandez’s
vehicle or pay restitution.  (UMF 113.)  But the offer suffered from several problems,
as discussed above.  True,  Kia’s representative specifically stated to
Hernandez that the offer was negotiable, and the representative further asked
Hernandez whether she had a buyback/restitution number in mind.   Nonetheless,
Kia’s conduct and its flawed offer raise triable issues of material fact with respect
to whether Kia knew of its obligations but intentionally declined to fulfill
them.  
 
Whether a manufacturer willfully violated its obligations
under the Act is a jury question.  “In
regard to the willful requirement of Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (c), a
civil penalty may be awarded if the jury determines that the
manufacturer ‘knew of its obligations but intentionally
declined to fulfill them.” (Schreidel, supra, 34 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1249-1250, emphasis added; see also Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors,
Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1104 [“Whether a manufacturer willfully
violated its obligation to repair the car or refund the purchase price is a
factual question for the jury that will not be disturbed on appeal if supported
by substantial evidence.”].)  
 
Kia’s motion for summary adjudication of civil penalties
is denied. 
 
Issue 4: Whether Plaintiff May Recover Attorney Fees and
Costs
            
            Kia argues Plaintiff cannot recover attorney fees and
costs because she filed this “tactical lawsuit for the purpose of recovering
fees and civil penalties.”  However, this
argument turns upon the validity of Kia’s prelitigation offer.  Having previously found Plaintiff was
entitled to reject the offer, Kia’s motion for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff’s claims for attorney fees and costs is denied.
 
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly, the Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.  The alternative Motion
for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
            
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   April 12, 2024                                    




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry
  Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of
  the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 


