  Case Number:  22TRCV002658    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Wednesday,
October 25, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Stephanie Dawn Diamond v. Kevin Donald McKenzie 
            22TRCV00658
1.      Stephanie
Dawn Diamond’s Motion to Vacate Failure to File Default Judgment     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Stephanie
Dawn Diamond’s Motion to Vacate Failure to File Default Judgment is granted.  
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on August 3, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Pursuant
to The Estate of Carol Joan Quinn, Plaintiff Diamond and Defendant McKenzie
were to share equally in the assets of the Estate. However, Defendant McKenzie
used his position as Executor to steal over $70,000 in cash from the Estate.  
 
            Motion
to Set Aside Dismissal
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            Plaintiff
has adequately established that the dismissal was entered due to her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Thus, the motion to set aside dismissal
(which Plaintiff entitled motion to vacate failure to file default judgment) is
granted and the case is restored to the active calendar.
 
            The
Court sets an OSC Re: Failure to File Default Judgment for ____________.