 Case Number:  24TRCP00007    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 9, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCP00007
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        G. Joseph Buck v. City of Torrance
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff,
G. Joseph Buck, in Pro Per
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Defendant, City of Torrance 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s April 22, 2024
Ruling on Petitioner’s Petition for Injunctive Relief Ordering Compliance with
California Public Records Act ,Cal. Gov’t Code § 7920.000 et seq., and Cal.
Constitution, Art. 1, § 3
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED. 
                                                 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
On January 5, 2024, Petitioner, G. Joseph Buck filed a
Petition for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief order Compliance with the
California Public Records Act, Cal. Gov Code §§ 7020.000 et seq., and
California Constitution Art. 1, § 3(b). In Petitioner’s Petition for
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Order for Compliance with the Public Records
Act, Petitioner argued that Responded uses the label “PRE23-00013” to identify
a recent request for approval of a Precise Plan of Development for property
located at 22209 Susana Ave., Torrance, CA. (Petition, ¶ 17.) The Petition
indicated that Respondent’s planning department holds and retains documents
pertaining to Precise Plan PRE23-00013 in a file identified in the same manner.
(Petition, ¶ 18.) On December 18, 2023, at Petitioner’s request, Petitioner
notes that Respondent permitted Petitioner to examine the contents of the file,
maintained in Respondent’s Planning Department, that contained documents filed
by the Applicant for approval of Precise Plan PRE23-00013. (Petition, ¶ 19.)
Later that day, Petitioner notes that he then delivered to Respondent,
Petitioner’s Public Records Act request identified as “Public Records Act
Request re: PRE23-00013,” which request Respondent then further identified as
“Public Records Act Request:: W011717-121823.” (Petition, ¶ 20.) 
 
The
Petition further contended that in his Public Records Act Request, he asked for
Respondent’s “permission to use [his] own equipment to photograph, and obtain
for [him] a copy of each of the documents that [he] examined in the City of
Torrance Planning Department on December 18, 2023, and that [he] described
above,” i.e., “large-sized sheets of paper that bear the labels: A1 – Site
Plan, A2 – First Floor Plan, A3 – Second Floor Plan, Aa5 – Elevations, A7 –
Roof Plan, and TS – Boundary/Topography Survey.” (Petition, ¶ 21.) Petitioner
noted that with the exception of the Document labeled “A1-Site Plan” Respondent
refused to permit Petitioner to photograph any of the Documents. (Petition, ¶
23.) Petitioner asserted that Respondent’s refusal to allow Petitioner to use
Petitioner’s own equipment, to make and retain a copy of each of the Defendants
(with the exception of the Document identified as A1-Site Plan), violates the
provisions of the CPRA as set forth by Government Code section 7922.530(b).
(Petition, ¶ 29.)
 
On
April 22, 2024, this Court, after hearing oral argument from both parties,
DENIED the Petition. Now, Plaintiff has moved for Reconsideration.
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Reconsideration. On June 24, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. To
date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard  
 
When a court granted or
denied a prior application for an order in whole or in part, the original party
making the application may make an additional application for the same order
when it based upon “new or different facts, circumstances, or law in which case
it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to
what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) If
a party fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure § 1008(b), the court may
revoke or set aside on ex parte motion any order following the
application. (Id.)  If a change in law warrants
reconsideration of a prior order entered, the court may make a motion on its
own and enter a new order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(c).) An application that
fails to comply with CCP § 1008 cannot be considered. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(e).) 
 
Section 1008 is “the
clear legislative intent to restrict motions to reconsider to circumstances
where a party offers the court some fact or authority that was not previously
considered by it” and could not have been considered by it.¿ (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)¿ Section 1008 is the exclusive
means for modifying, amending or revoking an order.¿ That limitation is
expressly jurisdictional.”¿ (Id. at p. 1499.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“The burden under
section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground
of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving
party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at
the trial.”¿ (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)¿ There is a strict requirement or diligence on the
moving party; the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for
failing to provide the evidence or different facts earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)¿
Evidence obtained after a is not ground for reconsideration where there was no
showing why evidence could not have been obtained earlier.¿ (Jones v. P.S.
Develop. Co., Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 707, 725, overruled on other
grounds in Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 530 [discussing
evidence discovered after a hearing on a motion for summary judgment].)¿
 
B.    
Discussion

 
Two hearings were held on this petition, one on
April 11 and a second on April 22.  By
this motion Plaintiff seeks the Court’s reconsideration of its April 22, 2024
ruling on the grounds that, as he argues, neither Petitioner nor Respondent
were able to address the Court’s identified factual and legal issues in its
tentative ruling during the hearing (Motion, ¶ 1), and that Petitioner
specifically was unable to comply because he had not received notice of the
Court’s detailed and multiple requests set forth in the written tentative
ruling prior to a few minutes before the hearing started when this Court’s
assistant delivered him a copy of the Tentative Ruling. (Motion, ¶ 1.) As an
alleged consequence of this lack of notice, Petitioner contends that there is
substantial evidence and legal argument that exists, and that was not submitted
to the Court on or prior to the April 22, 2024 motion by either Petitioner nor
Respondent. (Motion, ¶ 3.)   The motion indicates
that the Court delayed the April 22 hearing that morning to allow both sides
the opportunity to review a printed copy of the tentative ruling before oral
argument; the opposition papers and the Guerrero Declaration indicated that the
Court gave both sides “at least half an hour” to review the printed copy of the
tentative ruling after the courtroom staff provided each side with a copy.   The Court
typically inquires of the parties at the outset of hearings on noticed motions
and petitions to ensure a fair and fruitful hearing, and the Court regularly
delays the conduct of a hearing to enable the parties or their counsel the time
and opportunity to review and consider the Court’s thoughts on the noticed
matter if they had not previously seen the posted basis for the intended
ruling.   
 
Petitioner cites to the Court’s March 11, 2024
minute order where it stated that: “The Court, counsel, and plaintiff briefly
discuss[ed] the possibility of an evidentiary hearing in this case. On the
Court’s own motion, a hearing [was] set as follows: Evidentiary Hearing 402 EC
is scheduled for 04/22/2024 at 09:30 AM in Department 8 at Inglewood
Courthouse. The Court order[ed] a declaration and documents for an in-camera
review be submitted by 4/8/24.” (Motion, ¶ 5.) Petitioner argues that the
minute order did not include a statement of a briefing schedule for the parties
to follow in their preparation and presentation of evidence to argue for the
Court’s consideration, and that Petitioner made repeated inquiries to the
Court’s assistant and Respondent’s attorney as to the briefing schedules and
briefing content for use with respect to the hearing, but was not able to
understand prior to the hearing what was to be submitted to the Court prior to
the evidentiary hearing. (Motion, ¶¶ 5-7.) 
But there does not appear to have been any prejudicial effect of the
purported lack of a briefing schedule, as Petitioner did file a brief in
support of his petition on April 5 and filed a Reply Brief on April 22 that the
Court considered in deciding the merits of the Petition despite its late
submission.  
 
Petitioner contends that when the Court’s assistant
handed him the tentative ruling for the April 22 hearing, he did not have time
to understand, or comprehend the breadth and importance of the Court’s concern
until he was able to return home after the April 22, 2024 hearing. (Motion, ¶
15.) As such, he wishes to submit this application for reconsideration so that
he can respond to the Court’s concerns as to the “use” he intended to make of
the copies he obtained, pursuant to the CPRA, and documents held by Respondent.
(Motion, ¶ 15.) 
This is not sufficient grounds for Section 1008 reconsideration.  A Court’s indication of its question for the
parties is a substitute for the Court asking questions orally during the
hearing; the fact that a party may not have her or his best answer to the
Court’s question does not warrant reconsideration of a ruling after a hearing
on the merits.  The City’s April 8, 2024 opposition
brief had raised the issue of Petitioner’s intended use of the subject records so
Petitioner should not have been surprised that the Court would like to hear from
Petitioner about his intended use of the records as bearing on whether they
were protected by federal copyright law. 
Petitioner’s own brief in support of his petition noted that he desired
to use his own equipment to obtain copies of the documents “for Petitioner’s
use” with a footnote 3 reference to paragraphs 19-24 of the Petition
itself.  
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subsection (b), when a court granted or
denied a prior application for an order in whole or in part, the original party
making the application may make an additional application for the same order
when it based upon “new or different facts, circumstances, or law in which case
it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to
what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).)
Here, Petitioner’s motion for reconsideration does not appear to have any new
or different facts, circumstances, or law that could not have been presented
earlier.  In amending section 1008(b), the
Legislature did not dispense with the need for the moving party to show a
satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence earlier.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690 [denying reconsideration when the purportedly new or
different evidence consisted of the moving party’s own declared
knowledge].)  
  Here,
Petitioner bases his “new or different” facts argument on the fact that he
lacked advance notice of the Court’s tentative ruling, that he now possesses
“substantial evidence and legal argument” that he failed to submit prior to the
April 22, 2024 ruling because he was not give a briefing schedule and because
he did not know to look for a tentative ruling in advance. This Court
understands that Petitioner is representing himself in pro per and that he may
not have understood the Los Angeles Superior Court’s procedures for the on-line
posting of written tentative rulings before the hearing date.  However, California Courts have found that
“pro. per. litigants are held to the same standards as attorneys.” (Kobayashi
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543, citing Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 985 [“A doctrine requiring or permitting
exceptional treatment of parties who represent themselves would lead to a
quagmire in the trial courts, and would be unfair to the other parties to litigation.”].)
As such, the onus is on Petitioner, who brought this case to the trial court,
to understand the County courts’ system for tentative rulings before a hearing.
As for the time to review the tentative ruling, per California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1308(e), Courts are not required to provide the parties with tentative
rulings. This Court typically does provide them, as a courtesy, to help guide
the parties’ oral arguments as well as inform the parties of this Court’s
analysis in making its decision. Tentative rulings are provided prior to the
hearing on lacourt.org, and for self-represented or attorney-represented parties
the Court’s assistant will (and here did) provide a hard copy to litigants in
the Court room who have not reviewed the tentative ruling on their own. 
 
Further, the Petitioner’s Declaration in
support of this reconsideration motion indicates that he is retired former
member of the State Bar of California.  Judges
in Los Angeles County have been posting tentative rulings on the doors outside
their courtrooms on the day of a hearing, and later on the court website up to
a day or two before the hearing, for decades. 

 
Petitioner’s motion for reconsideration contains
his declaration on intended use of the subject records, facts that were not presented
at the April 11 or April 22 hearings but were facts that were available to him at
or before the April 22 hearing.  Petitioner’s
motion asks this Court to consider his April 22 reply brief, however, this
Court already previously considered it over the Respondent’s objection. Petitioner
also contends that he was unable to present evidence of his intended use for
the architectural plans at the hearing, even after reading the Court’s
tentative ruling whose two-sentence headline simply states that “Mr. Buck can
explain his intended use of the copy he seeks to make at his own expense.”  Merely because Petitioner failed to do so in
his prior briefs and in oral argument on April 22 does not qualify as “new or
different” evidence that could not have been presented before or at the hearing.

 
Further, were the Court to grant
reconsideration, and to view as a new fact or facts the Petitioner’s statement
of his intended uses of the requested copies, the Court would deny the motion
on the merits.  Petitioner asserts that
he has no intention to build or duplicate the architect’s design plan, but
rather his intent is to use the more detailed information in the architect’s
plans to address overdevelopment and degradation of the hillside issues.  The City did not prevent him from taking
notes of such details during his inspection of the plans.  His reconsideration motion also addresses the
“fair use” exemption from copyright law but not the right of the architect to
permit or restrict Petitioner from copying the architect’s plans.  That avenue was apparently closed to
Petitioner per Respondent’s evidence opposing the Petition, i.e., that upon
inquiry to the architect he denied consent to allow Petitioner to copy his
materials.  
 
For all these reasons, Petitioner’s
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subsection (b) is DENIED.   Respondent is ordered to give
notice. 
 
 
 
 