 Case Number:  22TRCV01468    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 9, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01468
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ronald Guritzky v.
Herbert James Henry Jr.                         .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Herbert James Henry Jr. 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Ronald Guritzky 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        July 29, 2024  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Dismiss 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  DENIED 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff,
Rondald Guritzky (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Herbert J.
Henry, Jr. (“Defendant”), and DOES 1 through 10. On December 14, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Promissory Note; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Common Counts –
Open Book Account; and (4) Common Counts – Account Stated. 
 
            Previously, on October 3, 2023, this
Court denied a defense motion that Mr. Henry labeled a Motion to Dismiss and/or
Motion for Summary Judgment. The Court denied that motion without prejudice to
a properly supported and noticed motion in the future. 
 
            Now, on May 28, 2024, Defendant has
filed another motion entitled: Notice of Motion and Motion to Dismiss with
Prejudice, an illegal contract, fraud, and the Defendant’s lack of capacity. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On May 28, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion to
Dismiss. On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July 1, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
            Preliminarily, the Court notes that
while this motion is entitled a “Motion to Dismiss,” it does not explain under
which subsection of Code of Civil Procedure section 581, et seq. it is
moving under. In fact, the moving papers do not cite to one section of the Code
of Civil Procedure. Although this alone is enough for this Court to deny the
Defendant’s motion, this Court will analyze this case – as Plaintiff does –
under the summary judgment standard. Judges are authorized to disregard the
label or caption of a motion and instead treat it in accordance with the relief
the motion requests.  (Hudson v. Superior
Court (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 999, 1011.)  
 
A.   
Legal
Analysis 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence that is admissible under the rules of evidence. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Procedural
Deficiencies
 
            Viewed
as a Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendant’s moving papers fail on numerous
procedural grounds. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350, a
Motion for Summary Judgment must contain and be supported by the following
documents: (1) Notice of Motion; (2) Separate Statement of undisputed material
facts in support of the motion; (3) Memorandum in support of motion; (4)
Evidence in support of motion; and (5) Request for judicial notice in support
of motion. (Cal. Rules Ct., R. 3.1350(c)(1-5).) 
 
            Procedurally,
if the labeled motion to dismiss were treated under the standards applicable to
dispositive motions, the instant motion was noticed and filed on May 28, 2024,
forty-two (42) days before the hearing. However, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure 437c, subsection (a)(2), notice of the motion and supporting papers
shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the
time appointed by the hearing. As such, Defendant’s motion is untimely and
procedurally defective at its inception. 
 
            Second,
Defendant has failed to include a separate statement of undisputed fact as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 473c, subsection (b)(1).  Third, the evidence provided by Defendant,
including answers to discovery, is not admissible as it has not been verified
via affidavit or declaration nor included as an exhibit. Instead, it is
integrated into the motion itself without any way for the Court to authenticate
the claimed discovery responses. Nor did Defendant request this Court to
judicially notice any evidence as well. 
Based on the above, Defendant’s motion can be dismissed on procedural
grounds alone. 
 
            Even
if the motion to dismiss were treated as a Section 581 motion to dismiss, those
motions too must satisfy basic procedural requirements that the instant motion
lacks.  Rule of
Court 3.1112 (a) requires that all motions consist of
at least a notice of the hearing, the motion itself, and a memorandum or legal
authorities and argument supporting the motion. 
Evidence is usually needed to establish the factual basis for the
arguments made; evidence must be provided in admissible fashion, including affidavits
or declarations under penalty of perjury. 
A document attached to a motion or even to a declaration is not given
under oath and thus does not fall within the hearsay exception for declarations
given in support of or in opposition to a motion.  (See Pajarao Valley Water Mgmt Agency v.
McGrath (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1107.)    Thus, as with motion for summary judgment,
motions to dismiss that rely on exhibits, documents, discovery responses,
contracts and the like must be authenticated by a sworn declaration or else
they are subject to objection as lacking foundation and/or inadmissible
hearsay.  A motion to dismiss that seeks
the same relief as a motion for summary judgment requires admissible evidence or
judicially noticed facts to justify such a remedy.  Plaintiff’s current motion lacks these things.  
 
Defendant Fails to Carry His Burden on
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            When
bringing a Motion for Summary Judgment, the initial burden is on Defendant to
demonstrate to the Court that there are no triable issues of material fact.
Here, Defendant fails to do such. 
 
            The
crux of Defendant’s motion attempts to argue that Plaintiff’s causes of action
are based on an illegal contract made between the parties and thus, it is
unenforceable. Defendant cites to Civil Code section 1596, which states that
“[t]he object of a contract must be lawful when the contract is made, and
possible and ascertainable by the time the contract is to be performed.” (Civ.
Code, § 1596.) Although this is true, Defendant’s argument fails to illustrate
to the Court – and even more importantly, carry his burden in proving that
there is no triable issue of fact as to the legality of the contract.
Throughout Defendant’s memorandum, he refers to the unpublished case of Metsch
v. Heinowitz (2020) 2020 WL 1933189 (“Metsch”). 
 
            In
Metsch, the Fourth District Court of Appeal ruled on a case where
plaintiffs sued defendant for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and
conversion arising out of a contractual and partnership relationship for the
production and distribution of edible cannabis products. (Metsch, supra,
2020 WL 1933189 at 1.) The Metsch Court discussed, the issue of illegality
of contract in the context of applicable cannabis law. The Metsch Court
held that defendants carried their burden that the contractual and partnership
alleged in the FAC was illegal, when they presented  legal authority showing both that cannabis
was a Schedule I controlled substance and that the possession, cultivation, or
processing of marijuana violated California law. (Id. at 9.) The Metsch
Court also found that Plaintiffs failed to meet their responsible burden of
evidence involving qualified immunity and unclean hands. (Id. at 10-11.)
Thus, the Metsch Court affirmed the trial court ruling granting summary
judgment in the defendants’ favor. (Id. at 13.) 
 
            This Court notes that unlike the
defendants in Metsch, Defendant in the case at bar has failed to carry
any burden of proving illegality. He argues that United States Code sections
relating to probation such as 18 U.S.C., sections 3563 (“Conditions of
Probation”), 3603 (“Duties of Probation Officers”), 3663 (“Order of
Restitution”) 3664 (“Procedure for Issuance and Enforcement of Order of
Restitution”), and alleges that the contract is illegal because Defendant had
certain terms of his probation, that Plaintiff knew of such terms, and still
entered the contract irrespective of Defendant abiding by such terms. Specifically,
with 18 U.S.C. 3563(b)(22), which requires “the defendant…satisfy such other
conditions as the court may impose,” Defendant argues that one of these
conditions was allegedly that he was prohibited to enter into any credit
contracts or agreements without prior approval of the U.S. Probation Department
or a Modification of the defendants’ judgment and commitment as ordered by the
presiding judge in the Defendant’s criminal trial. Again, there is no evidence before
the Court of such a requirement, nor is such a condition of Defendant’s
probation judicially noticed by this Court.  However, even if it was, this Court makes
clear, that the United States Code Annotated relied on by Defendant are conditions
that are imposed on the Defendant – not on the Plaintiff. The Code does not
require Plaintiff to abide by Defendant’s probationary rules.  
Assuming such rules were imposed on the Defendant,
the fact that Defendant entered into such a contract that purportedly fails to abide
by these asserted probationary rules does not render the contract void but
rather might make it voidable.  Further,
if Defendant entered into the subject credit contract and received the benefits
of the contract, the Court might need to assess whether Defendant should be
equitably estopped from asserting an illegality defense or whether other
equitable doctrines such as quantum meruit or quantum valebant might
apply.  The
“common count of quantum valebant [is] for the reasonable value of goods sold
and delivered.” (Weitzenkorn v. Lesser (1953) 40 Cal.2d 778, 792; see Lake
v. Wyatt Earp Enterprises, Inc. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 366, 370 [“ ‘The
existence of a contract implied in law under a quantum valebant count depends
upon whether the defendant “has used for its benefit any property of
[plaintiff] in such manner and under such circumstances that the law will
impose a duty of compensation therefor.” ’ ”].) 

California
law distinguishes between contracts which are malum in se, which would
potentially make the claimed illegal contract void, and those which are merely malum
prohibitum, which might make the claimed illegal contract voidable.  (Russell City Energy Co., LLC v. City of
Hayward (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 54, 70–71.)  Malum in se means “against good morals” and
“in violation of the general law of public policy, immoral.”  (Martin v. Wade (1869) 37 Cal. 168, 174.)  Traditionally, “parties to a contract malum
in se, whether it be executory or executed, whether the action be brought
on the contract or to recover the consideration, are denied all remedy by the
Courts.” (Martin, at p. 174.)  In
contrast, contracts that are malum prohibitum means “prohibited by
statute”—malum prohibitum contracts are illegal as contrary to a statute or regulation.   Parties to malum prohibitum contracts may
“recover back money paid on [the] contract as the circumstances of the case may
require.” (Smith v. Bach (1920) 183 Cal. 259, 263-264.)  Before the Court could consider dismissing the
case on the basis of a claimed illegal contract, the Court would need evidence
bearing on the existence of the claimed conditions of parole or probation,
whether Defendant did or did not receive the value of the contract or of goods
and services, and similar information. 
None of that is presented in admissible fashion in the moving
papers.  
            The
Court finds that Defendant has failed to carry his initial burden in bringing
this motion as he has failed to show that no triable issue of material fact
exists as to the illegality of the contract, that he fails to show whether the
claimed illegal contract is one that is malum in se or malum prohibidum, and
that he has failed to present sufficient evidence for the Court to dismiss the
case or to grant summary judgment.  . 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s
Motion is DENIED.  Plaintiff is ordered
to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 