  Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 July 9, 2024    CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00563   CASE NAME:                        Ocean Recovery, LLC v. Sullivan Curtis  Monroe Insurance Services, LLC and Scottsdale Indemnity Company                      .     MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Maja Peci    RESPONDING PARTY:       Ocean Recovery, LLC (No  Opposition.)   TRIAL DATE:                        None set.   MOTION:                               Defendant, Maja Peci’s Demurrer              Tentative Rulings:                  OVERRULED but certain points to  be argued as noted below       I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual    On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff,  Ocean Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis  Monroe Insurance Services, LLC (“SCM”), and Scottsdale Indemnity Company  (collectively “Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended  complaint. On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On  July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On February  21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). On April 18,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging causes of  action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good  Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence   This Court has previously  sustained a number of demurrers from a number of different Defendants. Most  recently, this Court overruled SCM’s demurrer to the 5AC as to the cause of  action for professional negligence.    Defendant, Maja Peci (“Peci”)  also filed a demurrer to the 5AC as to the third cause of action for  professional negligence, on slightly different grounds.                B. Procedural    On May 30, 2024, Defendant Peci  filed this demurrer. To date, no opposition has been filed.     II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE:                Filed concurrently with the moving  papers, Defendant Peci has requested this Court take judicial notice of the  following:    1.      Exhibit  2 March 28, 2024 Minute Order re demurrers to Fourth Amended Complaint; 2.      Exhibit  3 First Amended Complaint filed July 13, 2022; and  3.      Exhibit  4 Fifth Amended Complaint filed April 18, 2024.   The Court GRANTS this request and  takes judicial notice of the above.    III.  ANALYSIS    A.    Legal Standard    A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only  allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that  might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.  v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿    A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿   B.      Defendant, Maja Peci’s Demurrer    Preliminarily, this Court  notes that Plaintiff’s filing of the 5AC was a day late. On March 28, 2024,  this Court sustained the previous demurrer and allowed twenty (20) days leave  to amend, requiring plaintiff to amend its complaint by April 17, 2024. Nonetheless,  Plaintiff’s 5AC was not filed until 12:26 am on April 18, 2024, twenty-one (21)  days after this Court’s order. The Court will nonetheless address the tardy  amended pleading.    Defendant Peci demurs to the  third cause of action for professional negligence on the grounds it fails to  state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. This cause of action  has been the subject of multiple demurrers and multiple amended pleadings. As  noted above, this Court most recently, on June 27, 2024, overruled SCM’s  demurrer to this third cause of action in the 5AC.    Professional Negligence                Defendant Peci  argues that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for professional  negligence against it, and that its cause of action remains fatally uncertain.  As the Court has previously noted, “[t]he elements of a cause of action for professional  negligence are (1) the existence of the duty of the professional to use such  skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly  possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between the  negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage  resulting from the professional negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)                Peci contends that  the 5AC alleges Plaintiff was provided with EPLI coverage, thereby negating any  professional negligence claim, that the conduct alleged as against Defendant  Peci does not constitute negligence, that any misrepresentation suggested in  the 5AC is not alleged with requisite specificity, that the 5AC;s other  allegations and the subject insurance policy’s express terms preclude any claim  that Plaintiff was ignorant of the policy’s previsions or could have  justifiably relied on any representation that EPLI coverage was included, that  Defendant Peci owed no exceptional or fiduciary duty to Plaintiff, and that the  5AC does not establish Defendant Peci was an expert.                Nowhere in the 5AC  does Plaintiff allege that Defendants SCM or Peci failed to procure EPLI  coverage as part of Plaintiff’s “SCOTTSDALE” insurance policy. In fact,  Defendant Peci contends that any suggestion to that effect continues to be  negated by the allegation that: “On or about April 29, 2020, SCOTTSDALE  provided Plaintiff with Employment Practices liability insurance coverage.”  (5AC, ¶ 16.)    The  Court notes that Plaintiff alleges that Defendants SCM and Peci breached these  duties because: (1) Plaintiff inquired whether EPLI coverage was adequate and  comprehensive and was assured by SCM’s account manager Peci, that Plaintiff  presumed was an expert, that Plaintiff purchased EPLI coverage; (2) Plaintiff  had been advised that EPLI coverage was added to Plaintiff’s policies because  it was confirmed by SCM’s account manager Peci; and (3) SCM’s and Peci’s  negligence in procuring Plaintiffs’ insurance coverage fell below the standard  of care when it failed to reasonably notice plaintiff’s absence of longstanding  EPLI coverage. (5AC, ¶ 38(a)-(c).) Plaintiff nebulously alleges that as a  result of Peci failing to recommend EPLI coverage or as a result of her alleged  failure to fulfil her alleged representation that Plaintiff did purchase EPLI  coverage, Plaintiff wound up paying a quarter of a million dollars to defend a  lawsuit that he allegedly believed he had coverage for.    As  this Court did in the June 27, 2024 demurrer hearing, the Court will allow oral  argument as to whether these allegations are sufficient to state a cause of  action for negligence by a producer or brokerage whose alleged account manager  is claimed to have made a representation to Plaintiff that he purchased EPLI  insurance as opposed to the D&O policy he did purchase. As least as against  SCM, this Court previously found, on June 27, 2024, that while it found the 5AC  to be vague, nebulous, difficult to understand, and uncertain, that there was –  hidden among the murky reeds, a kernel of a cause of action pleaded within the  contemplation of the Mark Tanner Construction case.    Defendant  Peci’s demurrer indicates that she is joining SCM’s demurrer. Moreover, many of  the arguments previously overruling in SCM’s demurrer are presented in  Defendant Peci’s demurrer. For example, page 5 of the moving papers argues that  the 5AC “persists in failing to allege any negligent conduct against Defendants  SCM or Peci.” (Demurrer, p. 5.) However, as noted, SCM’s demurrer to the third  cause of action in the 5AC was previously overruled by this Court on June 27,  2024. The arguments shared by both SCM and Peci were already overruled on June  27, 2024, such as the parties holding themselves out as experts and the  negligence claims not being pleaded with the requisite specificity. However,  the Court found these arguments did not warrant a sustaining of SCM’s demurrer.  Instead, this Court noted that the case of Mark Tanner Constr. v. Hub  Internat. Ins. Servs. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 584, stood for the  proposition that Plaintiff’s 5AC had just enough to maintain its third cause of  action. In Mark Tanner Construction, the Court found:    “Insurance brokers owe a limited duty  to their clients, which is only ‘to use reasonable care, diligence, and  judgment in procuring the insurance requested by an insured.’ [Citations.]  Accordingly, an insurance broker does not breach its duty to clients to procure  the requested insurance policy unless ‘(a) the [broker] misrepresents the  nature, extent or scope of the coverage being offered or provided ... , (b)  there is a request or inquiry by the insured for a particular type or extent of  coverage ... , or (c) the [broker] assumes an additional duty by either express  agreement or by “holding himself out” as having expertise in a given field of  insurance being sought by the insured.’ [Citation.]” (Pacific Rim Mechanical  Contractors, Inc. v. Aon Risk Ins. Services West, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th  1278, 1283, 138 Cal.Rptr.3d 294 (Pacific Rim ).) “California law is well  settled as to this limited duty on the part of insurance brokers. [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)    (Mark Tanner  Construction, supra, 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 584.) Plaintiff appears to allege  that SCM breached this limited duty by having its alleged account manager,  Defendant Peci, do each of these three things. At oral argument, the Court will  seek input from Defendant Peci why such allegations in Paragraph 38 of the 5AC  are insufficient at the pleading stage to survive a demurrer for uncertainty or  for failing to state a viable cause of action in reference to Defendant Peci,  but were sufficient as to SCM.    As  noted by this Court previously, The Mark Tanner Construction case was  decided on a motion for summary judgment, not on a demurrer, where the Third  District found that the plaintiffs failed to carry their burden to demonstrate  error by the trial court. Here, there is no evidence before the Court (as there  will be on a summary judgment motion), nor does the Court consider on demurrer  anything but the allegations of the pleading plus any matters as to which the  Court has granted request for judicial notice. The moving and reply papers by  both Defendant SCM (in its previous demurrer) and Defendant Peci tend to argue  that Plaintiff could not reasonably rely on what he claims Defendant Peci  advised him, and that Plaintiff must have known the different between an EPLI  policy and a D&O policy, but the Court cannot consider such inferences or  credibility determinations on a demurrer.    Plaintiff  will also be asked as to why it failed to file an opposition brief to SCM’s  demurrer but not Ms. Peci’s.    III.  CONCLUSION               Based on the foregoing, Defendant  Peci’s demurrer is tentatively overruled subject to oral argument on the points  noted.