 Case Number:  24STCV00382    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Adelaida Vasquez Gonzalez,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV00382




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. and Brandi De La Torre,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. and Brandi De La Torre
Responding Party: Plaintiff Adelaida Vasquez Gonzalez
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff Adelaida
Vasquez Gonzalez sued Defendants Arakelian
Enterprises, Inc. and Brandi De La Torre, asserting causes of action for (1)
discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment and retaliation; (5) retaliation; (6) wrongful
termination; and (7) negligent supervision and retention. Plaintiff alleges her
supervisors harassed and discriminated against her based on her gender by
persistently making fun of her body and appearance.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Second Cause
of Action for Sexual Harassment 
 
The Fair Employment and Housing Act
prohibition on harassment states: “It is an unlawful employment practice. . .
.[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment agency, apprenticeship
training program or any training program leading to employment, any other
person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or military veteran status, to harass an employee, an applicant,
an unpaid intern or volunteer, or person providing services pursuant to a
contract.” (Gov. Code § 12940(j)(1).) A hostile work environment is a
recognized form of harassment. To establish a hostile work environment,
harassment must be so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the
victim’s employment and create an abusive working environment based on the
protected characteristic. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1045,
1043.) 
Defendants assert Plaintiff cannot state a
claim for sexual harassment because the alleged harassment was not based on
Plaintiff’s sex, and because the alleged harassment is based on “patently innocuous teasing statements.” 
Plaintiff
alleges her supervisors consistently mocked her appearance, stating her “butt
was too big” and her clothing was ugly. Plaintiff alleges that on one occasion
“DeLatorre printed a picture of a cartoon elephant from Sesame Street,
‘Snuffleupagus’, held it up in front of Plaintiff’ co-workers, and laughingly
mocked Plaintiff by saying ‘this is you!, this is what you remind me of’!
DeLatorre then grabbed some tape and taped the picture on a wall, mocking
Plaintiff the entire time.” (Compl. 19.) Plaintiff claims Defendants ignored
her complaints about this conduct and refused to provide Plaintiff with work
support in retaliation for her complaints. Plaintiff alleges this caused her to
suffer panic attacks that prevented her from working, causing her to be
constructively terminated. This is sufficient to state a cause of action for
sexual harassment.
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
B. First Cause of
Action for Discrimination
To
establish a claim for discrimination in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must
generally prove that (1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) that
he or she was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing
competently in the position he or she held; (3) that he or she suffered an
adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job; and (4) some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory
motive. (See Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
355.)  
Defendants
assert Plaintiff cannot state a claim for discrimination because she was not
subjected to an adverse employment action. Defendants argue that Plaintiff was
not constructively discharged because the allegations of harassment “hardly
such intolerable working conditions that a reasonable person in the Plaintiff’s
position would feel compelled to resign.” As stated, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged harassment. It follows that Plaintiff has alleged working conditions sufficiently
intolerable that a reasonable person could feel compelled to resign. 
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
C. Third Cause of
Action for Retaliation
To
establish retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
Defendants
demur to the cause of action for retaliation on the ground that Plaintiff
cannot allege an adverse employment action. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
refused to provide her with work support after her complaints of harassment and
created a work environment so intolerable she was forced to resign. This is
sufficient to allege an adverse employment action.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
D. Fourth, Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action
Defendants
demur to the fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action on the ground that they
are derivative of the first, second and third. Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts to support the first, second and third causes of action.
The
demurrer to the fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action is OVERRULED.