  Case Number:  23STCV03405    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03405




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Dignity Health, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 17, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendants Dignity Health dba St.
Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson and Christopher Pook
Responding Party: Plaintiff Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
               
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Dr.
Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D. sued Defendants Dignity Health
dba St. Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson, and
Christopher Pook, asserting causes of action for (1) intentional interference
with prospective economic relations; and (2) retaliation. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs for advocating for the medical staff
and patients. 
 
On June 15, 2023, the Court granted
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion in part.
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the first amended complaint for retaliation and UCL violations. On March 22,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative second amended complaint.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
of Plaintiff Ali’s claims for failure to renew Ali’s residency agreement based
on the arbitration provision in the residency agreement executed by Ali on June
19, 2020. (Decl. Caldwell, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “In the event of any dispute or claim arising out of or related to this
Agreement (each, a “Dispute”) the Parties shall, as soon as reasonably
practicable after one Party gives written notice of a Dispute to the other
Party (the “Dispute Notice”), meet and confer in good faith regarding such
Dispute at such time and place as mutually agreed upon by the Parties. If any
Dispute is not resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the Parties within 10
business days after delivery of the Dispute Notice (or such other period as may
be agreed upon by the Parties in writing), the Parties shall submit such
Dispute to arbitration conducted in the county in which Hospital is located by
JAMS in accordance with its commercial arbitration rules. . . .” (Id.)
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Waiver
 
“The question of waiver is one of
fact.” (Augusta v. Keehn & Associates (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 331,
337 (quoting Berman v. Health Net (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1363-64).)
“There is no single test for waiver of the right to compel arbitration, but
waiver may be found where the party seeking arbitration has (1) previously
taken steps inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration, (2) unreasonably
delayed in seeking arbitration, or (3) acted in bad faith or with willful
misconduct.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiff Ali asserts Defendants have
waived the right to arbitrate. The Court agrees. Defendants have participated
extensively in the litigating this case in court.  Defendants have filed two demurrers, an
anti-SLAPP, and a motion for attorney’s fees. Defendants also have appealed the
ruling on the anti-SLAPP. 
 
Defendants assert that this does not
show waiver because these motions did not address Plaintiff’s residency
agreement claims. All of Ali’s claims relate to the alleged failure to renew
Plaintiff’s residency agreement. And Defendants expressly addressed the
residency agreement and the arbitration provision in their first demurrer,
filed on June 20, 2023, arguing that Plaintiff could not allege retaliation
because Plaintiff had failed to seek arbitration before filing suit. Defendants
did not seek to compel arbitration at that time. Instead, Defendants waited for
the Court’s rulings on the merits of Plaintiff’s claims via demurrer and
anti-SLAPP before filing this motion. 
 
Defendants have acted inconsistently
with the intent to compel arbitration by using the Court system to determine
the merits of Plaintiffs’ claims and by unreasonably delaying the filing of
this motion. Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.


 