 Case Number:  21STCV30828    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  73 8/09/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YEDAM, INC., et al. v. DANIEL LEE, et
al. (21STCV30828)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainants/opposing
party:  Dale Park (Law Offices of Dale J.
Park)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/moving
party: Frederick Lee (Frederick W. Lee Law Firm APC)
 
(1)   MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY
RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE) AND REQUEST FOR
COSTS (filed on 01/22/2024)
(2)   MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) AND REQUEST FOR COSTS (filed on 01/22/2024)
(3)   MOTION FOR ORDER THAT THE MATTERS
SPECIFIED IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION (SET ONE) BE DEEMED ADMITTED, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, FOR AN ORDER COMPELLING FURTHER RESPONSES; AND REQUEST FOR COSTS (filed on 01/22/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Defendant
Daniel Lee’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiff
Choi shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
Plaintiff Choi is also ordered
to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $2,250.00, within 30 days. 
 
Defendants’ Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Defendant Daniel Lee’s Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, and Defendant Daniel Lee’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, are DENIED without prejudice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs Yedam, Inc. (“Yedam") and Eun
Kyung Choi (“Choi") brought this breach of loyalty and unfair business
practices action against Daniel N. Lee (“Lee") and Jin Sook Lee (together,
“the Lees"), and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“DM Cosmetics"). 
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) asserting 5 causes of action for: (1) Breach of Duty of Loyalty; (2) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (3) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; (4) Unfair Business Practices; and (5) Declaratory
Relief.
 
A.      Allegations
in the FAC
 
The FAC alleges the following. Yedam imports and purchases
products including candles and scented oils that are sold at various retail
locations such as department stores in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 9.) On or about February 2017 Defendant Daniel Lee
began working for Yedam in South Korea. (FAC, ¶
10.) In his capacity as an employee, Defendant Daniel Lee was significantly
involved in dealing with: a) manufacturers that produced candles, scented oils
or related products; b) the manufacturers’ decision makers and the purchase
terms such as price; c) the buyers at the department stores in Korea that
purchased such products from Yedam; d) the buyers’ decision makers and the
purchase terms such as price; and e) the retail locations in both the United
States of America and South Korea where such items were sold at. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Notwithstanding his duty of loyalty,
Defendant Daniel Lee, in conjunction with his wife Defendant Angela Lee, have
misused Yedam’s proprietary information in order to enrich themselves
financially. (FAC, ¶ 24). Defendants’ actions
have caused Buyers for Department Stores in South Korea to cease purchasing
products from Plaintiff Yedam and/or have caused the closure of retail
locations in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 26).
 
The Lees and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“Cross-Complainants" or
“Defendants”) cross-complained against Yedam, Choi, Olive House LLC, and Lamis
Tania, LLC (“Cross-Defendants"). On August 10, 2023, Cross-Complainants
filed their third amended cross-complaint (“TACC”) asserting 8 causes of action
against Cross-Defendants: (1) Breach of Oral Contract I; (2) Breach of Oral
Contract II; (3) Breach of Oral Contract III; (4) Breach of Oral Contract IV;
(5) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (6) Trademark Infringement; (7) Unfair
Competition in Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. and
California Trademark Law; and (8) Declaratory Relief.
 
The TACC alleges the following. Prior to 2017,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Choi owned Yedam. (TACC, ¶
11.) Yedam was experiencing serious financial problems. (Ibid.) In
February of 2017, Choi approached Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee asking for
help. (Id., ¶ 12.) Choi proposed Lee
serve as Yedam’s general manager, whereby Lee would oversee the Korean market
and Choi would oversee the Chinese market. (Ibid.) In exchange, Lee
would be paid a $10,000 per month salary. (Ibid.) In addition, Choi
would give Lee 49% ownership of Yedam if Lee could help Yedam “overcome [its]
financial hardship and become profitable." (Ibid.) Lee agreed and
moved from the US to Korea to serve as Yedam’s general manager. (Id., ¶ 13.) To help Yedam solve its financial issues, Lee
loaned Yedam $70,000.00 in operating capital. (Id., ¶ 14.) Choi promised that the $70,000.00 would be
paid back when Yedam become profitable, along with 7% interest per annum from
April 1, 2017. (Id., ¶ 12.) Lee
successfully managed Yedam thereafter, and Yedam went from net losses in 2016
and 2017 to net profits of over a million dollars per year by the end of 2019.
(Id., ¶ 15.) However, in July of 2019,
Yedam faced supply chain issues when the “Milk House Candle" company in
the United States refused to renew its exclusive distribution contract with
Yedam. (Id., ¶ 16.) In response, the
Lees created a new brand of merchandise named “Dani Mackenzie" under DM
Cosmetics, Inc. (Id., ¶ 17.) The Lees
trademarked Dani Mackenzie in the United States in May of 2020. (Id., ¶ 18.) Around that same time, Choi proposed that
Yedam purchase Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics in exchange for
Yedam having the right to use the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶ 19.) Choi told the Lees that there was no need to
have a written licensing and distribution agreement because Choi would transfer
49% of Yedam’s ownership interest to Lee by the end of December 2020. (Id.,
¶ 20.)
 
Dani Mackenzie became highly popular in Korea, and Yedam’s sales
and profit soared to the point that Yedam was valued at over $50 million. (Id.,
¶ 22.) On December 20, 2020, Lee demanded that
Choi transfer 49% of Yedam to him. (Id., ¶
23.) Lee also demanded that Choi and Yedam repay the $70,000 operating capital
loan with 7% interest from April 1, 2017. (Ibid.) However, Choi
terminated Lee from Yedam shortly thereafter and refused to convey the 49%
ownership share. (Id., ¶ 25.) Further,
Choi and Yedam stopped purchasing Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics
and started using other suppliers to manufacture products bearing the Dani
Mackenzie trade name. (Id., ¶ 28.) On
March 18, 2021 and April 14, 2021, Cross-Complainants demanded that
Cross-Defendants cease and desist manufacturing, supplying and/or selling
products under the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶
32.) 
 
B.      Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Answers to Request for Production of Documents (Set
One)
 
On January 22, 2024, Cross-Complainants/Defendants filed the
Motion to Compel Further Answers to Request for Production of Documents (Set
One), arguing: 
·      
Defendants
move to compel further responses to Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 1-26

·      
Plaintiff Choi provided responses that were improper, deficient,
incomplete, and/or without merit 
·      
Defendants requests
that the Court award monetary sanctions against Choi and her attorney of record
in the sum of $2,250.00.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are improper parties. 
o   Defendant Daniel Lee propounded the discovery requests. Thus, only
Defendant Daniel Lee can seek relief. 
·      
Defendants’ motion should be denied due
to deficiencies in the Separate Statement. 

o   In the Separate Statement of Items in Dispute, Moving Parties misstate
the responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 4, 5 and 8 and misstate
Request for Production of Documents No. 5. (Exhibit “2” to the Declaration of
Dale J. Park).
o   Plaintiff also refers to Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter as to why
supplemental responses are necessary for RFP Nos. 13-26
o   The separate statement must be full and complete so that no person is
required to review any other documents in order to determine the request and
the response. California Rule of Court Rule 3.1345(c). Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference. California Rule of Court
Rule 3.1345(c).
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to
Plaintiffs in the amount of $5,950
 
Defendants filed a reply arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are proper parties. 
o  
Jin Sook Lee a/k/a Angela Lee and DM Cosmetics, Inc. are named
defendants in Responding Party’s First Amended Complaint, and are
Cross-Complainants in the present Action. As such, they are interested parties
in the issues brought by the Motion.
·      
Separate Statement
o  
The mistakes in the Separate Statement
are copy and paste mistakes. However, the meet and-confer statement which was sent to the Responding
Party is all correct. Responding party is well aware of its own responses and
the issues.
o  
Reference to the meet and confer letter in the separate statement
was done to avoid the unnecessary repetition of the lengthy same wording. 
·      
Plaintiff only provided boilerplate objections to all responses. 
·      
The documents sought are highly relevant information that were not
privileged or protected in any way [Park Decl. ¶ 4]. In addition, the documents
sought go to the very issues that Responding Party presents in her own First
Amended Complaint
 
C.      Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Answers to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
 
On January 22, 2024, Cross-Complainants/Defendants filed the
Motion to Compel Further Answers to Special Interrogatories (Set One), arguing:

·      
Defendants
move to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Set One, Nos. 1-15
·      
Plaintiff Choi provided responses that were improper, deficient,
incomplete, and/or without merit 
·      
Defendants requests
that the Court award monetary sanctions against Choi and her attorney of record
in the sum of $2,250.00.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are improper parties. 
o   Defendant Daniel Lee propounded the discovery requests. Thus, only
Defendant Daniel Lee can seek relief. 
·      
Defendants’ motion should be denied due
to deficiencies in the Separate Statement. 

o   In the Separate Statement of Items in Dispute, Moving Parties identify
the responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5, in relevant part,
as: “The Defendant conducted diligent search and reasonably [sic] inquiry has
been made in an effort to locate the information demanded ..." However,
the actual responses to each of these interrogatories is: “Objection. Vague and
ambiguous. Overbroad, oppressive and unduly burdensome.” (Exhibit “2” to the
Declaration of Dale J. Park).
o   In the Separate Statement of Items in Dispute, Moving Parties identify
the responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 6 - 15 as “No response by
Responding Party.” To the contrary, there were responses to each of these
interrogatories. (Exhibit “2” to the Declaration of Dale J. Park).
o   The separate statement must be full and complete so that no person is
required to review any other documents in order to determine the request and
the response. California Rule of Court Rule 3.1345(c). Material must not be
incorporated into the separate statement by reference. California Rule of Court
Rule 3.1345(c).
·      
Defendant’s discovery requests are not
proper. The First Amended Complaint sets forth no less than twenty (20)
paragraphs in the Background Allegations headings. These allegations are
incorporated into each of the five causes of action (which have additional
allegations).
o   Also, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.010 provides that an
interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a certain
contention or to the facts, witnesses and writings on which a contention is
based. However, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee did not even ask if
Grace Choi was making any particular contention.
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to
Plaintiffs in the amount of $5,057.50
 
Defendants filed a reply arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are proper parties. 
o  
Jin Sook Lee a/k/a Angela Lee and DM Cosmetics, Inc. are named
defendants in Responding Party’s First Amended Complaint, and are Cross-Complainants
in the present Action. As such, they are interested parties in the issues
brought by the Motion.
·      
Separate Statement
o  
The mistakes in the Separate Statement
are copy and paste mistakes. However, the meet and-confer statement which was sent to the Responding
Party is all correct. Responding party is well aware of its own responses and
the issues.
·      
Plaintiff only provided boilerplate objections to all responses. 
·      
Plaintiff’s assertions that Defendant’s discovery requests were
improper is not relevant. Defendant also did not ask if Plaintiff was making
any particular contention because it is self-contained in Plaintiff’s FAC 
 
D.     Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Answers to Requests for Admissions (Set One)
 
On January 22, 2024, Cross-Complainants/Defendants filed the
Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admissions (Set One), or in the
alternative, to Compel Further Responses, arguing: 
·      
Defendants
move to compel further responses or deem admitted Requests for Admissions Set
One, Nos. 10-12, 14, 16-17
·      
Plaintiff Choi provided responses that were improper, deficient,
incomplete, and/or without merit 
·      
Defendants requests
that the Court award monetary sanctions against Choi and her attorney of record
in the sum of $2,250.00.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are improper parties. 
o   Defendant Daniel Lee propounded the discovery requests. Thus, only
Defendant Daniel Lee can seek relief. 
·      
There is no basis to order requests be
admitted. 
o   Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280 provides that when a party has
not provided a timely response that the requesting party may move for an order
that the matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted. Here, Plaintiff provided
a timely response.
·      
There is no trade secret designation.
·      
Plaintiff’s objections are proper.
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to
Plaintiffs in the amount of $5,355.00
 
Defendants filed a reply arguing:
·      
Defendants’ Jin Sook Lee and DM
Cosmetics, Inc. are proper parties. 
o  
Jin Sook Lee a/k/a Angela Lee and DM Cosmetics, Inc. are named
defendants in Responding Party’s First Amended Complaint, and are
Cross-Complainants in the present Action. As such, they are interested parties
in the issues brought by the Motion.
·      
Plaintiff only provided boilerplate objections to all responses.
Plaintiff failed to admit or deny the matters specified in the requests. 
·      
Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant did not identify a trade
secret is disingenuous.
o  
Plaintiff identified the specific trade secrets at issue in her
Request for Admission No. 11 itself: “’DM TRADE SECRETS’ shall mean ‘1) the
formula of Candles, Diffuser, Scent Oil; 2) the list of manufacturers and
suppliers of DM Cosmetics; 3) list of customers; 4) distribution and sales
methods, all of which are owned by DM Cosmetics, Inc.’”
o  
Plaintiff also identified and described the trade secrets at issue
in her Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) [Please see ¶¶ 36-38, 92. 96,
101-102, and 105].
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here,
Defendants submitted a declaration attesting that the parties met and conferred.
(Park Decl. ¶¶ 6-14.) The Court finds the
moving party has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement.
 
B.      Legal
Standard 
 
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action
written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ CCP § 2030.010(a).¿
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP § 2030.260(a).¿ 
¿ 
“The party to
whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of the
party's option to produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”¿ CCP § 2030.210(a).¿ “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”¿ CCP §
2030.220(c).¿ 
¿ 
“On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ 
¿ 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(c).¿“[T]he time limitations set forth
in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when]
not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿(Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
 
C.      Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses for
Production of Documents, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
                                                             
i.     
Separate Statement
 
For motions
to compel further discovery responses, moving parties are required to file
separate statements in support. (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) The
Court is required to analyze each objection made to determine whether valid
objections were made and this type of analysis requires a separate statement.
The California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision (a), states: 
 
“A separate statement is a separate document filed and served with
the discovery motion that provides all the information necessary to understand
each discovery request and all the responses to it that are at issue. The
separate statement must be full and complete so that no person is required to
review any other document in order to determine the full request and the full
response. Material must not be incorporated into the separate statement by
reference.”
 
In Mills
v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893, the Court of Appeal analyzed
a procedural deficiency in a separate statement where “Plaintiffs filed a
separate statement in support of their motion to compel, but it did not comply
with the requirements of former rule 335 (now rule 3.1020). Plaintiffs'
separate statement did not set forth U.S. Bank's full response to each of the
interrogatories and requests for production at issue. Instead, the separate
statement repeatedly grouped together several discovery requests, and then
stated ‘in relevant part’ U.S. Bank's response to the group as a whole, and it
significantly truncated some of the lengthier responses.” When determining if
the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion to compel further
for this procedural deficiency, the Court of Appeal stated, “We conclude that
because Plaintiffs did not comply with the requirements of former rule 335, the
trial court was well within its discretion to deny the motion to compel
discovery on that basis. (Cf. Neary v. Regents of University of California
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1145, 230 Cal.Rptr. 281 [describing trial court's
denial of motions to compel discovery because of a nonconforming separate
statement].)” (Id. at 893.)     
 
Here,
Plaintiff filed separate statements for its Motions
to Compel Further Discovery Responses for Production of Documents, Set One, and
Special Interrogatories, Set One. However, similar to Mills, Plaintiff’s
separate statements contain multiple deficiencies and do not comply with the requirements in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345. In the
separate statement filed with Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Discovery
Responses for Production of Documents, Set One, Plaintiff’s separate statement only
refers to Plaintiff’s meet and confer
letter as to why supplemental responses are necessary for RFP Nos. 13-26.
However, pursuant to California Rule of Court Rule 3.1345(c), material must not
be incorporated into the separate statement by reference. Further, Plaintiff’s
separate statements for both its Motions to Compel Further
Discovery Responses for Production of Documents, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One contain multiple mistakes, such as misstating the
responses and requests, which Plaintiff attributes to copy and paste errors. However,
the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s separate statements make
it extremely difficult for the Court to analyze Plaintiff’s requests and
Defendants’ objections.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motions to Compel
Further Discovery Responses for Production of Documents, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, are DENIED without prejudice. 
 
A.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Admissions, Set One
 
Defendants
move for an order that the matters specified in Requests for Admission, Set
One, be deemed admitted, or in the alternative, for an order compelling further
response.  
 
When
a party fails to serve a timely response to a request for admission, the party
propounding the request for admission may move for an order to deem the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who fails
to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or work product. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court
shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Since
Plaintiff timely served a response, the Court does not deem the truth of the
matters specified in the requests admitted. 
 
Defendants
move to compel further responses to Requests for Admissions Set One, Nos.
10-12, 14, 16-17.
Request
for Admission No. 10 states “Beginning January 2021, YEDAM stopped purchasing “Dani Mackenzie”
merchandise from DM Cosmetics.” Plaintiff Choi objects on the grounds of lack
of foundation. In her opposition, Choi asserts there is no underlying pleading
basis that can support this request. However, the Court agrees with Defendants
that this admission is probative as to the Cross-Complaint’s fifth, sixth,
seventh and eight causes of action and would show whether Yedam was selling
Dani Mackenzie merchandise without consent. Thus, the Court grants Defendants’
request to compel further response as to this request. 
Request
for Admission No. 11 states “CHO, YEDAM, OLIVE HOUSE and LAMIS TANIA misappropriated DM TRADE
SECRETS (“DM TRADE SECRETS” shall mean “1) the formula of Candles, Diffuser,
Scent Oil; 2) the list of manufacturers and suppliers of DM Cosmetics; 3) list
of customers; 4) distribution and sales methods, all of which are owned by DM
Cosmetics, Inc.”).” Plaintiff
Choi objects on the grounds that Defendants have not identified the trade
secret. The Court disagrees that the trade secret has not been identified with
reasonable particularity and finds the trade secret identified in Request for
Admission No. 11 sufficient. Thus, the Court grants Defendants’ request to compel further
response as to this request. 
Request
for Admission No. 12 states “DANIEL LEE and ANGELA LEE are the owners of the trade name and
trade mark of “DANI MACKENZIE” (Registration No. 6,151,717).” Plaintiff Choi
objects on the grounds that it is vague, ambiguous, compound, overbroad, oppressive
and unduly burdensome. The Court disagrees, and the request is not compound
because it refers to both Daniel Lee and Angela Lee, not either or. Thus, the
Court grants Defendants’ request to compel further response as to this request.
Request
for Admission No. 14 states “The value of YEDAM was evaluated about over Fifty Million dollars
($50,000,000.00) as of 12/31/2020” and Request for Admission No. 16 states “For
Year 2020, YEDAM had net profits of $1,060,000.00.” Plaintiff Choi objects on
the grounds these requests are “Not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Privileged financial matters. Violates the
right to privacy.” However, Choi has not sought a protective order, therefore,
her privacy objection is not proper. Further, the requested admission is
relevant to show the valuation and net profits of Yedam, and it is relevant to
support Defendant Lee’s claims relating to his unpaid salary and ownership
interests in Yedam. Thus, the Court grants Defendants’ request to compel
further response as to this request.
Request
for Admission No. 17 states “YEDAM, INC. had no certificate of qualification to transact intrastate
business or to pay taxes based on conducting intrastate business in the State
of California at any time.” Plaintiff Choi objects on the grounds these
requests are “Vague and ambiguous. Not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” Defendants assert they are seeking to
ascertain whether YEDAM was qualified to conduct business, as a corporation, in
California. The Court finds this request relevant. Thus, the Court grants
Defendants’ request to compel further response as to this request.
In sum, the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set One, is
GRANTED. Further responses are due within 30 days.  
 
B.     
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Both parties
request the Court impose monetary sanctions. Since the Court grants Defendants’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions, Set One, the
Court grants Defendants’ request for attorneys’ fees incurred in bringing that
motion. Defendants request reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $2,250.00. (Park Decl. ¶ 17.) 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request. Plaintiff Choi is also ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants,
by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $2,250.00, within 30
days. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Defendant Daniel Lee’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiff Choi shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days
of the Court’s order. Plaintiff Choi is also ordered
to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $2,250.00, within 30 days. 
 
Defendants’ Motions to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Defendant Daniel Lee’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Defendant Daniel Lee’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, are DENIED
without prejudice. 