  Case Number:  20STCV46934    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  73 08/09/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
BARRIOS v. B.V. TELACU NW FIVE, INC.,
et al. (20STCV46934)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Daniel Balaban (Balaban &
Spielberger, LLP) 
Counsel for Waste
Management Defendants:  Benjamin Sampson
(Bordin Semmer LLP)
Counsel for Telacu
Defendants/moving party: Sonali Olson (Olson Law Group, APC)
 
(1)   MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT (filed by Telacu Defendants on 06/05/2024)
(2)   MOTION TO SEAL DOCUMENTS CONTAINING SETTLEMENT
AMOUNT (filed by Telacu Defendants on 06/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants’
Motion to Seal Documents Containing Settlement Amount is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 8, 2020, Plaintiff Jerson
Barrios (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Telacu NW Five,
Inc.; Telacu 1270, Inc.; Telacu Development Corporation, Inc.; The East Los
Angeles Community Union; Waste Management of California, Inc.; and Waste
Management Collection and Recycling, Inc.
 
The Complaint alleges that while in
the course of Plaintiff’s employment with Garibay Landscaping, Inc., Plaintiff
sustained significant injuries during an incident on May 2, 2020. Plaintiff alleges he was standing on the outer ledges
on the top of a dumpster, as he and others usually did, to empty the contents
of the reusable trash bags full of leaves, shrubbery, branches, which was being
handed to him by another member of the Garibay Landscaping crew. Plaintiff
alleges he suddenly lost his balance and fell down to the ground hitting the
back of his head, neck, back and the rest of his body onto the asphalt/concrete
floor, suffering a skull fracture, respiratory failure, spinal injuries and
shoulder abrasion, among other injuries. Defendants
Telacu NW Five, Inc.; The East Los Angeles Community Union; and Telacu Real
Estate Services, Inc. (collectively the “Telacu Defendants”) own and maintain
the property where the incident occurred. 
 
On June 5,
2024, the Telacu Defendants filed the Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement
stating that they reached a settlement with Plaintiff. No opposition was filed.
 
On June 17,
2024, the Telacu Defendants also filed the Motion to Seal Documents Containing
the Settlement Amount. No opposition was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Motion to
Determine Good Faith Settlement
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides that, on
noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors
. . . .” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).) Although
determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other
party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the
amount stipulated” by the settlement.¿ (Id. at (c).)¿ 
 
In City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the Court
provided guidance on an unopposed motion for a good faith settlement
determination:¿ 
 
This court
notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented
for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and
granted summarily by the trial court. At the time of filing, in many cases the
moving party does not know if a contest will develop. If each motion required a
full recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual
response to all of the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors, literally thousands of
attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read
and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste valuable
judicial and legal time and clients' resources. It must also be remembered
that¿Tech-Bilt¿was decided on a contested basis. We are unaware of any
reported decision which has reversed an¿uncontested¿good faith
determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when the good faith nature
of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider
and weigh the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors. That is to say, when no one objects,
the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by
a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient. 
 
((1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) 
 
The instant
motion is unopposed. The Telacu Defendants have provided evidence that they
reached a settlement with Plaintiff through out of court negotiations. (Cain Decl.
¶¿2.) 
 
On March 13, 2024, parties had a mediation with Hon. Thierry Colaw
(ret.). (Cain Decl. ¶¿5.) While the parties
did not settle during mediation, the parties continued to communicate and
negotiate through the efforts of the mediator and the Telacu Defendants and
Plaintiff were able to reach a settlement on or about May 8, 2024. (Ibid.)
 
The
confidential settlement agreement provides that the Telacu Defendants and their insurer have agreed to pay an
agreed upon settlement amount contingent on a stipulation of good faith
settlement between the parties. Plaintiff to be responsible for all liens.
There is a confidentiality clause in the agreement, each party to bear their
own costs and fees, and a 1542 Waiver. (Cain Decl. ¶¿2.)
 
In Telacu
Defendants’ motion, they provided a background of the case and the parties’
positions relative to their dispute. (See Motion, pp. 3-6.) All parties to this action have been notified of the subject
settlement, including the settlement amount, and
counsel for the non-settling Defendant Waste Management of California, Inc. has
stipulated that the settlement is in good faith. (Cain
Decl. ¶¿3.) The foregoing is sufficient for an unopposed motion for good faith
settlement determination. 
 
The motion is
granted. 
 
B.     
Motion to Seal
Documents Containing Settlement Amount
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).) A party may move to seal records pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting that a
record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order permitting a
record to be filed under seal, the court must find facts that establish:  
 
(1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; 
(2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
The Telacu Defendants
request that
the Court permanently seal the un-redacted version of the supporting
Declaration of Jinny Cain to the Defendants’ Motion for Order Determining Good
Faith Settlement pursuant to C.C.P. § 877.6 and the exhibits attached thereto. The
only portions redacted from the Good Faith Settlement Motion contain the amount
of settlement.
 
The Telacu
Defendants’ grounds are that Plaintiff and the Telacu Defendants reached a
settlement as the result of out of court negotiations; the settlement agreement
contains a confidentiality provision; and the settlement agreement is
contingent on a court order finding the settlement was entered in good faith. (Cain
Decl. ¶¿2.)
 
A contractual
obligation not to disclose the terms of a confidential settlement agreement can
constitute an overriding interest to justify sealing under appropriate
circumstances. (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2003)
110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.) 
 
There are
sufficient facts to support the filing of the settlement documents under seal.
There is an overriding interest supporting sealing in permitting the parties to
proceed to settlement and prevent a breach of the settlement agreement, which
is contingent on this Court’s order determining it was made in good faith. If
the document is not sealed, the settlement agreement will be breached. No less
restrictive means are apparent to achieve the overriding interest.  
 
The unopposed
motion is granted. 
 

DISPOSITION 
 
Defendants’
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants’
Motion to Seal Documents Containing Settlement Amount is GRANTED.