 Case Number:  24STCV07170    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  73 08/09/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
DAVIS v. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT, et al. (24STCV07170)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Jared Watkins (Cypress LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant Inclusive Education and Community Partnership, Inc./moving party:  Sonali Olson (Olson Law Group)
 
Demurrer WITH MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED
complaint (filed 6/24/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
IECP’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action against
Defendant IECP is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant
IECP’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff Pharrell Davis, a minor by and through
his guardian ad litem, Justin Davis, filed his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District; Inclusive Education and
Community Partnership, Inc. and Does 1-20. Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 
1.      Assault;
2.      Battery;
and
3.      Negligence.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff Pharrell Davis (“Plaintiff”
or “Pharrell”) was born in 2012 and was ten years old at the time of the alleged
assault. Justin Davis is Plaintiff’s father.  During all times relevant, Plaintiff was a
student at Hillcrest
Drive Elementary (“Hillcrest”), a school within the Los Angeles Unified School
District (“LAUSD”). At all times mentioned herein, LAUSD
employed and/or contracted with Defendant Inclusive Education and Community
Partnership, Inc. (“IECP”) to support and supervise children with disabilities
at Hillcrest. 
 
The FAC alleges that on November 14, 2022, during
lunch on the schoolyard at Hillcrest Drive Elementary, Plaintiff and another
student (Doe 2) were playing football. The two students got into a physical
altercation and a school aide, Jose, intervened. Plaintiff alleges that Jose
was assigned to supervise the other student (Doe 2) based on that student’s
“disability(ies), behavorial problems” as part of the student’s Individualized
Education Plan. Plaintiff alleges that Jose violently grabbed Plaintiff by his
sweatshirt and slammed his head and body to the blacktop. Plaintiff alleges he
suffered a concussion with ongoing post-concussive syndrome. Plaintiff alleges school
officials witnessed the physical assault, failed to prevent it, and failed to
provide medical aid or comfort to Pharrell. 
 
On June 24, 2024, Defendant
IECP filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC arguing:
·       The First
Cause of Action for Assault fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against IECP. Plaintiff fails to allege vicarious liability on
behalf of Jose.
·       The Second Cause
of Action for Battery fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against IECP. Plaintiff fails to allege the intent element. 
·       Defendant
IECP also moves to strike allegations of punitive damages as well as irrelevant
allegations from the FAC
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing that the FAC sufficiently
sets forth facts to constitute its first and second causes of action.
 
Defendant IECP filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute its first and second causes of action as to IECP. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating that
the parties discussed the grounds of the demurrer and motion to strike via
telephone on June 17, 2024. (Witzman Decl., ¶
3.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and confer
obligation and the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
IECP requests judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and
(2) IECP’s meet and confer letter.
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452,
subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court
grants Defendant IECP’s requests. The Court notes that while the Court may take
judicial notice of the document, the Court may not take judicial notice of the
truth of its contents. (See Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
C.      Objections to
Evidence
 
 
Defendant
IECP objects to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel Jared L. Watkins in
opposition to IECP’s demurrer and motion to strike, specifically paragraph 4: “Documents
produced by IECP in connection with its discovery responses show, among other
things, that: 
• IECP trains its employees on nonviolent crisis intervention and
physical intervention. 
• The Master Contract (“Agreement”) between Defendants IECP and
Los Angele Unified School District (“LAUSD”) empowers IECP employees to engage
in emergency intervention to control unpredictable, spontaneous behavior that
pose clear and present danger of serious physical harm to students that cannot
be immediately prevented by a less restrictive response. 
• The Agreement prohibits interventions that cause pain or trauma.”
 
The Court
sustains Defendant IECP’s objection.
 
D.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
E.      First Cause
of Action for Assault
 
“The essential elements of a cause of action
for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2)
plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful
or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 668-69.)
 
The FAC alleges the following. “On or about
November 14, 2022, during lunch at Hillcrest, Defendant DOE 1 (Jose) acted,
intending to cause harmful contact with Pharrell’s person by grabbing Pharrell
by his sweatshirt and slamming his head and body onto the blacktop causing him
to suffer serious personal injuries.” (FAC, ¶
38.) “Pharrell
reasonably believed that he was about to be touched in a harmful manner and it
reasonably appeared to Pharrell that Defendant DOE 1 (Jose) was about to carry
out the threat.” (FAC, ¶ 39.) “Pharrell
did not consent to Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) conduct.” (FAC, ¶
40.) “Defendant
IECP is vicariously liable for Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) tortious conduct under
the doctrine of respondeat superior because Defendant DOE 1 was an employee and
agent of IECP acting within the course and scope of his employment and agency
at the time of the subject assault.” (FAC, ¶ 41.) “Pharrell
was harmed by Defendants’ tortious conduct, and Defendants’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Pharrell’s harm in that a reasonable person would
consider Defendants’ conduct to have contributed to Pharrell’s harm and it was
more than a remote or trivial factor.” (FAC, ¶ 43.)
 
The Court finds these allegations sufficient to satisfy the
elements of assault. 
 
In its motion, Defendant IECP argues that the FAC fails to allege
any facts supporting vicarious liability against IECP. 
 
An employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s tort under the
doctrine of respondeat superior if the tort was committed within the scope of
the employment.¿ (Montague v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.)¿ 
 
An employee’s willful or malicious tort may fall within the scope
of employment even without the employer’s authorization. (Flores v. AutoZone
West, Inc.¿(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 373, 379.) Whether an employee's wrongful
acts were committed during the scope of employment is judged by a two-prong,
alternative “test”: (1) whether the act was either required by the employer or
“incidental” to the employee's duties (“nexus” test); or (2) whether the
employee's misconduct was reasonably foreseeable by the employer (even if not
“required” or “incidental”). (Montague, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1521.)
 
“The employee need not have intended to further the employer's
interest for the employer to be liable if there is a ‘causal nexus’ between the
intentional tort and the employee's work.” (Crouch v. Trinity Christian
Center of Santa Ana, Inc.¿(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1015.) This nexus is
not simply “but for” causation. (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital¿(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 298.) “The connection or causal nexus
required for respondeat superior liability is the tort must have been
engendered by or arise from the work. [Citation omitted.] The required
connection has been described as (1) ‘the incident leading to injury must be an
“outgrowth” of the employment’; (2) ‘the risk of tortious injury is “inherent
in the working environment” ’; (3) the risk of tortious injury is ‘ “typical of
or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has undertaken” ’ or (4)
‘the tort was, in a general way, foreseeable from the employee's duties.’” (Id.
[Citations omitted].)
“[E]mployers have been held liable for the wrongful and
unauthorized acts of their employees where they were committed in the course of
a series of acts of the agent which were authorized by the principal.” (Thorn
v. City of Glendale (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1382.)
 
Here, the FAC alleges that “Jose was specifically assigned to
supervise the student with whom Pharrell was playing (“DOE 2”) as part of an Individualized
Education Plan. On information and belief, because of DOE 2’s disability(-ies),
behavioral problems, and the need to monitor his interactions with other
students, DOE 2 required individualized and particularized supervision and
instruction.” (FAC, ¶
17.)
 
Defendant IECP argues that the alleged conduct of “slamming” Plaintiff
to the ground is not required nor incident to Jose’s duties nor reasonably
foreseeable in the role of supporting a disabled student.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that an employer may be
vicariously liable for its employee’s assault and battery committed while
breaking up a fight in the interest of the employer. For example, in De
Rosier v. Crow (1960) 184 Cal. App. 2d 476, a waitress employed by a
bowling alley and bar was acting in the course and scope of her employment when
she committed assault and battery while attempting to stop a fight between
patrons and the owner. (Id. at 481.)
 
In Defendant IECP’s reply, it argues that in De Rosier, the
employer defendants knew that the waitress had a propensity too be violent when
she was drinking alcohol, and the defendants served the waitress alcohol on the
evening of the attack. 
 
The Court finds that the allegations in the FAC are sufficient to
support vicarious liability against IECP. The FAC alleges that Jose was
specifically assigned to “monitor Doe 2’s interactions with other students” “because
of Doe 2’s disability(-ies) and behavioral problems.” (FAC, ¶ 17.) Therefore,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew Doe 2 had “behavioral problems” requiring
supervision. Thus, intervening in a physical altercation between two students
on behalf of his employer appears to be within the scope of Jose’s employment
with IECP. 
 
As such, the demurrer
to the first cause of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint against IECP
is OVERRULED. 
 
F.       Second Cause
of Action for Battery
 
“The essential elements of a cause of action
for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be
touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching.”  (So v.
Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.) 
 
Here, the FAC
alleges the following. “On or about November 14, 2022, during lunch at
Hillcrest, Defendant DOE 1 (Jose) grabbed Pharrell by his sweatshirt and
slammed his head and body onto the blacktop causing him to suffer serious
personal injuries. In doing so, Defendant DOE 1 (Jose) touched Pharrell with
the intent to harm him. In addition to Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) use of physical
violence, his repeated cursing at Pharrell further exhibited his intent.” (FAC, ¶ 47.) “Plaintiff did
not consent to Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) touching him or his sweatshirt.” (FAC, ¶ 48.) “Plaintiff was harmed by Defendant DOE 1’s
(Jose) conduct.” (FAC, ¶ 49.) “A reasonable
person in Pharrell’s situation would have been offended by the touching.” (FAC,
¶ 50.)
 
Defendant
IECP argues the FAC is devoid of facts that would show any intent by Jose to
harm Plaintiff while intervening in the fight. Defendant IECP argues that
Plaintiff has alleged that due to Jose having to intervene to stop the fight, Plaintiff
fell to the ground. 
 
However, the
Court does not find Defendant IECP’s assertion persuasive. The FAC does not
allege that Plaintiff fell to the ground. Instead, the FAC alleges intentional
conduct by Jose, specifically that he “grabbed Plaintiff by his sweatshirt and
slammed his head and body onto the blacktop causing him to suffer serious
personal injuries.” (FAC, ¶ 47.) The Court finds the
FAC’s allegations sufficient to state a battery cause of action. 
 
As such, the demurrer
to the second cause of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint against
IECP is OVERRULED. 
 
G.     Motion to
Strike
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendant IECP requests the Court to
strike the following allegations in the FAC:
1.      Page 2,
paragraph 1, lines 6 and 7, the words: “violently” and “slammed”
2.      Page 3,
paragraph 7, line 16, the word: “slammed”
3.      Page 4,
paragraph 22, line 18, the word: “slammed”
4.      Page 4,
paragraph 26, line 23, the word: “obvious”
5.      Page 5,
paragraph 27, line 1, the word: “slamming”
6.      Page 6,
paragraph 38, line 10, the words: “slamming” and “serious”
7.      Page 7,
paragraph 45, in its entirety: “At all times mentioned in this Complaint,
Defendants acted with malice within the meaning of California Civil Code §
3294. Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) conduct was intended by him to cause injury to
Pharrell or was despicable conduct carried out by him with a willful and
conscious disregard of the safety of students, particularly Pharrell.
Defendants IECP and LAUSD are liable for punitive and exemplary damages because
their respective officers, directors, or managing agents had advance knowledge
of Defendant DOE
1’s (Jose) unfitness and each employed and retained him with a conscious
disregard for the rights or safety of others, including Pharrell.”
8.      Page 7,
paragraph 47, the words: “slammed” and “serious”
9.      Page 8,
paragraph 56, in its entirety: “At all times mentioned in this Complaint,
Defendants acted with malice within the meaning of California Civil Code §
3294. Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) conduct was intended by him to cause injury to
Pharrell or was despicable conduct carried out by him with a willful and
conscious disregard of the safety of students, particularly Pharrell.
Defendants IECP and LAUSD are liable for punitive and exemplary damages because
their respective officers, directors, or managing agents had advance knowledge
of Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) unfitness and each employed and retained him with a
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others, including Pharrell.”
10.  Page 10,
paragraph 64, lines 3 and 24, the words: “serious” and “bullying”
11.  Page 12,
paragraph 73, in its entirety: “At all times mentioned in this Complaint,
Defendants acted with malice within the meaning of California Civil Code §
3294. Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) conduct was intended by him to cause injury to
Pharrell or was despicable conduct carried out by him with a willful and
conscious disregard of the safety of students, particularly Pharrell.
Defendants IECP
and LAUSD are liable for punitive and exemplary damages because their
respective officers, directors, or managing agents had advance knowledge of
Defendant DOE 1’s (Jose) unfitness and each employed and retained him with a
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others, including Pharrell.”
12.  Page 13,
paragraph 3, in its entirety: “For punitive and exemplary damages according to
proof against Defendants IECP and DOE 1;”.
 
a.       Punitive
Damages
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
To hold a corporate employer liable for punitive damages, an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation must have “had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294.) “Ratification is a
question of fact. The burden of proving ratification is upon the party
asserting its-existence. But ratification may be proved by circumstantial as
well as direct evidence.” (Greenfield v. Spectrum Inv. Corp.,1985 174
Cal. App. 3d 111, 118 (disapproved of on other grounds by Lakin v. Watkins
Associated Indus. 1993 6 Cal. 4th 644) (internal quotations and citations
omitted).) Ratification can be shown by a managing agent’s failure to fully
investigate, penalize, or terminate an employee who was guilty “oppression,
fraud or malice.” (Id. at 121.)
 
Defendant IECP argues there is no basis for punitive damages against
IECP. Defendant IECP asserts that the FAC only contains boilerplate language
alleging legal conclusions without any factual support, such as “Defendants
acted with malice” and “Defendant DOE
1’s (Jose) conduct was intended by him to cause injury to Pharrell or was
despicable conduct carried out by him with a willful and conscious disregard.” 
 
However, the
Court disagrees and finds the FAC sufficiently pled facts to support a claim
for punitive damages. The FAC alleges that Jose violently grabbed Plaintiff and
slammed him to the blacktop and then called Plaintiff a “motherfucker.” Thus,
Jose’s alleged physical and verbal misconduct shows he acted with malice and
oppression towards Plaintiff. Further, the FAC alleges that IECP ratified
Jose’s misconduct by failing to fully investigate it and failing to penalize or
terminate Jose’s employment. (FAC, ¶¶ 29-30.) Thus,
the Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a claim for punitive
damages. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant IECP’s motion
to strike punitive damages is DENIED.
 
b.      Irrelevant
and Improper allegations 
 
Defendant IECP argues that portions of
the First Amended Complaint should be stricken because they are improper, false,
and have no relevance to the legal claims. 
 
For
example, Defendant IECP argues that the Court should strike the words “violently
slamming” because it is Plaintiff’s “attempt to inflame passions” and prejudice
against IECP. (Motion, p. 7.)
 
However, Defendant
IECP fails to cite to any authority to support its contention that these allegations
should be stricken. Defendant IECP does not cite to any cases that support
striking words like “violently” or “slamming.” These words and allegations are
relevant and provide context to Plaintiff’s claims. The Court does not find
Defendant’s arguments persuasive and denies the motion to strike these
allegations.
 
In sum, Defendant
IECP’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant IECP’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second causes
of action against Defendant IECP is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant
IECP’s motion to strike is DENIED.