 Case Number:  23CHCV02888    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  F51 
AUGUST 15,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV02888

 
Motion
filed: 6/6/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Eileen Pineda; and Jose Pineda (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 29–30, 32–33, 37, and 44.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted in part. Defendant to provide further code-compliant
responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Nos. 29–30, 32–33, 37, and 44,
within 30 days. The Court limits the scope of RFP Nos. 29, 30, 32, and
44 to consumer complaints regarding vehicles purchased in the State of
California. The Court
imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $790.00.
 
Defendant is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these
requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being
placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in
compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the
imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle they purchased on or
around 12/5/20, for which Defendant issued the manufacturer’s express warranty.
(Compl. ¶¶ 8–9.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “was unable to repair the
vehicle in accordance with the written warranty or the consumer protection and
warranty laws of the State of California.” (Id. at ¶ 5.)  
 
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant had actual
knowledge of a defect in computerized driver-assisting safety systems in the
same model of vehicle as that purchased by Plaintiffs and continued to
knowingly market and sell/lease vehicles equipped with the defect while
concealing the existence of those defects from consumers such as Plaintiffs. (Id.
at ¶¶ 23–25.) 
 
On 9/27/23, Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging
against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
On 5/30/24, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 12/12/23, Plaintiffs served their RFPs, Set One, on
Defendant. (Decl. of Thach Tran, ¶ 6.) On 1/16/24, Defendant served its
responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 8.)
 
On 6/6/24, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s
further responses to their RFPs, Set One. On 8/5/24, Defendant filed its
opposition. On 8/9/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs seek to compel Defendants’ additional responses
to their first set of RFPs, Nos. 29–30, 32–33, 37, and 44. “RFP Nos. 33
and 37 involve AHM’s goals and statistics associated with vehicle repurchases
and warranty repair costs and agendas or minutes regarding the sensing defect
and warranty spending.” (Pls.’ Reply 1:5–7.) “RFP Nos. 29-30, 32, and 44
involve similar customer complaints and warranty repairs relating to the
defects and nonconformities in vehicles that overlap with the same defects
alleged in Plaintiffs’ vehicle.” (Id. at 1:10–12.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that on 2/13/24, he sent
Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the issues raised in the
instant motion. (Tran Decl. ¶ 9.) On 5/23/24, counsel for the parties met and
conferred telephonically, but were unable to informally resolve the dispute. (Id.
at ¶ 10.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has satisfied the
preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue, in part, that Defendant’s
objections to the subject RFPs are without merit. (Pls.’ Mot. 12:2–6; Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) The demanding party must take the initiative
to obtain a judicial determination of the validity of any objection by moving
to compel a further response, but the objecting party has the burden of
justifying the objection. (See, e.g., Coy v. Superior Court of Contra
Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.) Here, Defendant objected to each
request at issue on the bases of, inter alia, relevance and undue burden.
 
a.                  
Scope/Relevance 
 
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
objections to the subject RFPs on the basis that they seek irrelevant matter
are meritless because “the information sought by Plaintiffs regarding the Honda
Sensing defect may prove a widespread defect or nonconformity or show when it
arose; and may also demonstrate American Honda’s knowledge of widespread
problems and American Honda’s failure to act despite its knowledge.” (Pls.’
Mot. 7:27–8:2.)
 
Specifically,
Plaintiffs contend that “information regarding similar customer complaints is
highly relevant to prove that Defendant had knowledge of widespread defects and
non-conformities in other 2020 Honda Accords as well as the Subject Vehicle. …
Thus, the documents and evidence sought by RFP Numbers 29-30, 32, 44 are
relevant to prove that Defendant did not act in good faith and thus willfully
failed to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act.” (Id. at
8:3–9.) With respect to RFP Nos. 33 and 37, Plaintiffs argue that “evidence
regarding Defendant’s practices in handling widespread defects such as the
Honda Sensing defect is relevant to determining whether Defendant willfully
violated the Song-Beverly Act when it refused to repurchase Plaintiffs’
Vehicle.” (Id. at 8:20–22.)
 
Defendant
argues in opposition that “this case is solely about Plaintiffs’ own vehicle,
its repair history, and how AHM responded to Plaintiffs’ concerns regarding the
Subject Vehicle. Further, AHM’s statutory obligations, and whether a plaintiff
is entitled to relief under Song-Beverly, is entirely unrelated to the
handling, repurchase, or replacement of any other vehicles, even those of the
same year, make, and model.” (Def.’s Opp. 8:18–22.) Defendant further argues
that the requested documents are irrelevant to determine whether Defendant
willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act, because “determining whether a
defendant acted willfully is based on the repair history of the Plaintiffs’
vehicle.” (Id. at 10:14–15, citing Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of North
America, Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 185–186 [“a manufacturer who
refused a refund or replacement on the ground a reasonable number of repair
attempts had not been made, without making any effort to gather the available
information on repair history, might well be deemed to have acted willfully.”].)
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided sufficient facts
to establish the requisite good cause for production of the subject documents.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) In order to obtain civil penalties
under the Song-Beverly Act, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant’s
failure to comply was willful, which may be based on the defendant’s knowledge
of a certain defect. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).) Information regarding
vehicles other than Plaintiffs’ is relevant to the subject matter of this
action as it could assist Plaintiffs in proving Defendant’s willful violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Documents responsive to these
requests may reasonably lead to the discovery of information as to the nature
and duration of the defects, Defendant’s knowledge of the defects, and
Defendant’s inability to repair the defects. 
 
Furthermore,
the Court finds that Defendant’s reliance on Kwan is misplaced, where
that case involved an appeal of the trial court’s jury instructions defining a
“willful” violation of the Act. (23 Cal.App.4th at 177.) There, the Court of
Appeal clarified that “such a violation is not willful if the defendant’s
failure to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and reasonable
belief the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present.” (Id. at
185.) The Court of Appeal then looked to the available evidence, which included
the repair history of the subject vehicle, to conclude that the defendant “was
entitled to an instruction informing the jury its failure to refund or replace
was not willful if it reasonably and in good faith believed the facts did not
call for refund or replacement.” (Id. at 186.) This Court finds no rule
stated in the Kwan opinion which limits the evidence relevant to a
manufacturer’s “willful” violations of the Song-Beverly Act solely to the
repair history of the subject vehicle. The Court of Appeal unequivocally stated
that “a [manufacturer’s] decision [not to refund a consumer or repurchase a
vehicle under the Act] made without the use of reasonably available information
germane to that decision is not a reasonable, good faith decision.” (Ibid.)
Here, the Court finds that the requested documents are relevant to aid in a
factfinder’s determination of whether Defendant’s decision not to refund
Plaintiffs or repurchase the subject vehicle was made reasonably and in good
faith.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance
objections to the subject RFPs are without merit. However, the Court limits the
scope of RFP Nos. 29, 30, 32, and 44 to consumer complaints regarding vehicles
purchased in the State of California.
 
b.                 
 Undue
Burden
 
Plaintiffs further argue that Defendant’s objections to the
subject RFPs on the basis that they are unduly burdensome and oppressive are
meritless without any additional showing of any such undue burden or
oppression. (Pls.’ Mot. 13:23–24.) The party
objecting to a discovery request on this basis bears the burden of supplying
evidence of “the quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) 
 
Here, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs that Defendant has
not supplied evidence to show the “quantum of work required” to respond in full
to the subject RFPs. Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s objections
to the requests to the extent that they are unduly burdensome or oppressive are
without adequate support.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel in the amount of $2,035.00, encompassing: (1) 2 hours of Plaintiffs’
attorney’s time spent preparing the instant motion; (2) an anticipated 2 hours
reviewing Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply; and (3) an anticipated 1
hour attending the instant hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate of $395.00 per
hour. (Tran Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs also seek to recover $60.00 in filing fees.
(Id. at ¶ 13.)
 
Here, in partially granting the instant motion, the Court
finds it reasonable to award Plaintiffs sanctions against Defendant in the
amount of $790.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted in part. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of RFPs, Nos. 29–30, 32–33,
37, and 44, within 30 days. The Court limits the scope of RFP Nos. 29,
30, 32, and 44 to consumer complaints regarding vehicles purchased in the State
of California. The Court
imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $500.00.