  Case Number:  22CHCV01334    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  F51  AUGUST 15, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 22CHCV01334    Demurrer Filed: 5/3/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Unified School  District (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Kathrin Strain (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire fourth amended complaint (“4AC”).    TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Defendant to file an answer to  Plaintiff’s 4AC within 30 days of this hearing.   BACKGROUND   On 5/10/23,  Plaintiff filed her second amended complaint, alleging against Defendant the  following causes of action: (1) General Negligence; (2) Negligent Supervision;  and (3) Negligent Hiring/Retention. On 10/11/23, Plaintiff filed her third  amended complaint, alleging the same causes of action. On 4/5/24, Plaintiff  filed her 4AC, alleging the same causes of action.   On 5/3/24,  Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 8/5/24, Plaintiff filed her  opposition. On 8/9/24, Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   Defendant  demurs to each of Plaintiff’s causes of action on the basis that Plaintiff  fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute any of those causes of action.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Defendant’s counsel declares that on 4/14/24, he sent  Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the issues raised in the  instant demurrer but received no response. (Decl. of Jeffrey P. Wade, Jr., ¶¶ 3–4.)  Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary  meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a).    B.     Knowledge  or Notice Requirement   Plaintiff  brings this action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, which sets  forth the procedural requirements that must be followed when a plaintiff seeks  to pursue a claim for childhood sexual assault. As this Court previously noted  in its ruling sustaining Defendant’s prior demurrers, an action brought under  Section 340.1 must allege that “the person or entity knew or had reason to  know, or was otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that creates a risk of  childhood sexual assault by an employee, volunteer, representative, or agent,  or the person or entity failed to take reasonable steps or to implement  reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault.” (Code Civ.  Proc. § 340.1, subd. (c) [emphasis added].)   The  knowledge or notice requirement “requires the victim to establish that the  nonperpetrator defendant had actual knowledge, constructive knowledge (as  measured by the reason to know standard), or was otherwise on notice that the  perpetrator had engaged in past unlawful sexual conduct with a minor and,  possessed of this knowledge or notice, failed to take reasonable preventative  steps or implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of future unlawful  sexual conduct by the perpetrator.” (Doe v. City of  Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549.)   The Doe court  held that the victim plaintiffs’ “complaints fail to allege that defendants had  knowledge of [the perpetrator’s] past unlawful sexual conduct with minors,  which is the prerequisite for imposing upon these defendants liability for his  subsequent sexual abuse of plaintiffs. That defendants had knowledge or notice  of misconduct by [the perpetrator] that created a risk of sexual exploitation  is not enough under the express terms of the statute. In the absence of  sufficient allegations of knowledge or notice on the part of these defendants,  their demurrers were correctly sustained and the actions against them properly  dismissed.” (42 Cal.4th at 552.)   Here, as in  Doe, this Court previously found that Plaintiff’s “factual  allegations, even if broadly construed, similarly fail to allege that Defendant  had knowledge of the perpetrator’s past acts of unlawful sexual conduct with  minors.” (3/7/24 Min. Order, p. 3.) In her 4AC, Plaintiff added the following  allegation: “On information and belief, Defendants LAUSD and DOES 1 to 50 knew,  had reason to know, or was otherwise on notice of past incidents of unlawful  sexual conduct by the Perpetrator with minors that triggered the duty on  Defendant’s part to take preventive measure to avoid acts of unlawful sexual  conduct by the perpetrator in the future, but took no action to obstruct,  inhibit or stop such continuing conduct, or to help Plaintiff avoid the trauma  caused by the Perpetrator’s wrongful conduct.” (4AC ¶ 36.)   Defendant  argues that Plaintiff’s amendment is again insufficient because “here,  Plaintiff was required to plead specific facts regarding LAUSD’s knowledge or  what LAUSD should have known of the perpetrator’s past incidents with minors  that would trigger the duty on LAUSD’s part to take preventive measure to avoid  acts of unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator in the future. … There are  no allegations that any adults at the school heard these rumors. Nor are there  any allegations as to when these alleged rumors were circulated and by whom.” (Dem.  7:11–17.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that the added allegations are sufficient to withstand  demurrer “because actual knowledge need not be pled against organizations or  entities that provide services primarily or exclusively for children.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 5:22–25, citing Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 113, 132.) Plaintiff further argues that she has “sufficiently  plead facts that if true are demonstrative of notice to the district.” (Id.  at 7:23–24, citing Doe, 42 Cal.4th at 550.)   As  Defendant argues in reply, Plaintiff’s reliance on Lawndale is misplaced  here because the procedural posture of the case involved summary judgment, a  different standard from that for pleadings at the demurrer stage. (Def.’s Reply  4:4–8, citing 72 Cal.App.5th at 122.) Defendant further asserts that “there are  absolutely no allegations that even come close to showing that LAUSD has actual  or even constructive notice of prior misconduct. Plaintiff Strain is required  to plead specific facts regarding employee knowledge or what the employees  should have known of the alleged perpetrator’s past incidents with minors that  would trigger the duty on LAUSD’s part to take preventive measure to avoid acts  of unlawful sexual conduct by the alleged perpetrator in the future.” (Id.  at 3:15–20, citing Doe, 42 Cal.4th at 551.)   Here, the  Court finds that the added factual allegations sufficiently allege Defendant’s  notice of the perpetrator’s past instances of sexual misconduct with minors. As  Plaintiff argues, “Defendant seeks to introduce a more stringent pleading  requirement than exists.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:9.) The Doe court found that “the  complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than  evidentiary facts. … a plaintiff should be able to rely on the doctrine of less  particularity where he or she can plausibly allege that the nonperpetrator  defendant withheld or concealed evidence of its knowledge or notice of the  perpetrator’s past unlawful sexual conduct with minors.” (42 Cal.4th at 550–551.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges such concealment in paragraphs 29 and 33 of the 4AC.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  support an action brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1.  Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this basis.   C.    Constitutionality  of AB 218   Defendant again  posits that “Plaintiff’s suit is barred by Plaintiff’s failure to timely  present a government claim, and because AB 218, which retroactively eliminated  the requirement in 2020, is an unconstitutional gift of public funds.” (Dem. 7:24–27.)   The Court previously  found that “the constitutionality of AB 218 is not properly before this Court  at the demurrer stage. A demurrer tests the factual sufficiency of a pleading  on its face. Here, the Court is satisfied that Code of Civil Procedure section  340.1 does not currently mandate a plaintiff to present a government claim as a  prerequisite to bringing the instant action. Accordingly, the Court declines to  address the parties’ arguments concerning the constitutionality of AB 218 as  they are not relevant to the Court’s analysis of the factual sufficiency  of Plaintiff’s” pleading. (3/7/24 Min. Order, p. 4.)   Plaintiff  argues that “this issue was previously raised, and denied, by the Court. It is  properly rejected on that ground alone.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:19–20, citing Code Civ.  Proc. § 430.41, subd. (b).) Defendant argues in reply that “at the last  hearing, counsel for LAUSD specifically inquired of the Court if it was  precluded from making the arguments raised in the present pleadings. This Court  indicated that no party was precluded from making any argument.” (Def.’s Reply  5:5–7.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court again declines to address the parties’ arguments  concerning the constitutionality of AB 218 at the demurrer stage.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled.  Defendant to file an answer to Plaintiff’s 4AC within 30 days of this hearing.