  Case Number:  20SMCV01322    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Gregory Meguerian; John Meguerian; Yvette Christina Hernandez; Patrick Bon; Elevated Investment Group, Inc.; and The Reefinery, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the fifth and sixth causes of action.Plaintiff Green Baron Holdings, LLC may amend its complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Defendants Gregory Meguerian; John Meguerian; Yvette Christina Hernandez; Patrick Bon; Elevated Investment Group, Inc.; and The Reefinery, Inc.to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Gregory Meguerian; John Meguerian; Yvette Christina Hernandez; Patrick Bon; New Line Jeopardy, LLC; Elevated Investment Group, Inc.; and The Reefinery, Inc. demur to the fifth and sixth causes of action in Plaintiff Green Baron Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”)’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On January 4, 2024, former counsel for Defendant New Line Jeopardy, LLC filed a notice of the Court’s granting counsel’s motion to withdraw as counsel. It is axiomatic that a corporation cannot represent itself in litigation and must be represented by licensed counsel. (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) Defendant has not filed a notice of new counsel; thus, the Court considers this demurrer only as to Defendants Gregory Meguerian; John Meguerian; Yvette Christina Hernandez; Patrick Bon; Elevated Investment Group, Inc.; and The Reefinery, Inc. (“Defendants”).Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Fifth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Inducement“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)In the fifth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Gregory Meguerian represented to Plaintiff orally and via text message in December 2017 that Defendants would provide accounting statements immediately upon execution of the Long Form Agreement, but Defendants did not produce such statements, and Defendants did not hire an accountant. (FAC ¶¶ 96-98.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant also made representations to Plaintiff orally about a business plan, a promise to allow access to the accounting system, and presenting Plaintiff with what appeared to be a breakdown of how money would be used, but Defendants intended to change the corporate structure. (FAC ¶¶ 99, 100.) Put simply, these allegations are not sufficiently specific as required in a fraud claim, as Plaintiff fails to allege the specific nature of the representations made, thereby precluding a finding that Plaintiff justifiably relied on the representations in a manner that caused harm. Plaintiff must specifically allege the representations, when they were made, by what means, and Defendant’s knowledge of falsity. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.Sixth Cause of Action: Violation of California Blue Sky Laws (Cal. Corp. Code §§ 25401, et seq.)Corporations Code section 25401 makes it “unlawful for any person to offer or sell a security in this state, or to buy or offer to buy a security in this state, by means of any written or oral communication that includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which the statements were made, not misleading.”Plaintiff uses the same allegations stated above, as well as alleging that Defendants Yvette Christiana Hernandez, John Meguerian, and Patrick Bon aided Defendant Meguerian and Cahuenga Caregivers Inc.’s fraud because they were signatories to the Short Form Agreement, making them aware of the obligation to provide accounting and financial information, but they failed to do so, and they further misrepresented the ownership structure for the corporate entities. (FAC ¶¶ 113, 114.) Here, too, Plaintiff’s claims remain too vague and conclusory without the required specificity, as Plaintiff fails to allege the specific nature of the misrepresentations made as to the corporate structure, or any other representations made by Meguerian. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.