 Case Number:  23SMCV05352    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  I The court already ruled on many of the issues presented
herein.  The court incorporates by
reference and reaffirms its prior rulings and adopts them (as reflected in
tentative decisions recited in the minutes of the prior hearing) to the extent
not inconsistent with the following.
 
The matter is here today because there was one open
issue.  The demurring defendant contends
that even if the continuing violation doctrine applies to Kennedy William Gordy
(Kennedy) such that there is no statute of limitations issue as to him (and
that is not conceded more generally), the doctrine does not apply to Berry
Gordy (Gordy).  Gordy is Kennedy’s
father.  He is not accused of actual
sexual assault on plaintiff Anita Thompson (Thompson or plaintiff).  Instead, he is sued because he allegedly
aided and abetted Kennedy in Kennedy’s conduct, including by making threats
against plaintiff to stop her from reporting the violence.  Among other things, Gordy is alleged to have
moved Kennedy and Thompson to his guesthouse to isolate Thompson and facilitate
the assaults; prevent Thompson from speaking to the police by, among other
things, taking from her the officer’s card after the police were called to the
scene; and pressuring her into not being candid with the police.  Gordy also allegedly threatened Thompson
regarding custody and child support issues concerning Thompson and Kennedy’s
child.  Eventually, though, Thompson left
the property and left Kennedy.  And,
tragically, her son died.  Some years
later she re-entered Kennedy’s life at Kennedy’s request.  Once she did that, Kennedy’s sexual assault
and other physical assaults allegedly resumed or continued.  And, eventually, she sued.  
 
Many of the allegations occurred before 2016, which is when
Thompson left the property and her son passed. 
She returned to Kennedy’s life in 2020, and the most recent act of
alleged abuse is well within the statutory time frame.  Gordy, however, asserts that the last act
alleged against him occurred in 2016, which is long before the complaint
was filed in November 2023 or the cross-complaint (which is the operative
pleading for this motion) was filed in April 2024.  
 
According to plaintiff, though, even if Gordy’s liability is
in the nature of aiding and abetting, the statute of limitations for him as an
aider and abettor is the same as the statute of limitations for Kennedy, and
therefore the action is timely.  That is
true, Thompson asserts, even if Gordy personally did nothing after 2016.  (She does not concede that he took no
improper actions after that date, but she agrees that none is listed in the
cross-complaint).  Gordy, for his part,
states that although Thompson correctly cites the general rule, it does not
apply to this case.  Rather, Gordy
asserts, an aider and abetter’s liability ends when the last act of aiding and
abetting took place.  At the last
hearing, the court noted that in the context of a conspiracy, a
co-conspirator’s liability extends throughout the conspiracy until and unless
the conspirator leaves the conspiracy, at which point the conspirator is not
liable for things that come later.  The
court ultimately allowed the parties to submit supplemental briefs on this
issue.
 
All parties agree that the statute of limitations here is
found in CCP section 340.15—and that it is three years.  There is no separate statute of limitations
for aiding and abetting.  Thus, at least
to start, Gordy’s liability seems to be tied with the statute for the
underlying tort, and that is well settled as a general matter.  (American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451.)  It boils down, then, to the date of
accrual.  For Kennedy, it would be the
last act of violence unless the break between 2016 and 2020 is too great to
allow the continuing wrong doctrine to apply—a question not before the court at
this time.  That is because the statute
expressly states that the date of accrual is three years “from the last act of
domestic violence by the defendant against the plaintiff.”  Gordy claims that as applied to him, though,
this does not mean the last act of violence, but rather the last act of violence
that he aided or abetted.  In support of
his view, Gordy cites to non-binding authority, including an unpublished Ninth
Circuit case and out of state cases. 
While the Ninth Circuit case purports to apply California law, the court
puts little weight on it.  The Ninth
Circuit very intentionally decides what cases to publish and what cases not to
publish.  Not only that, but unlike our
California Court of Appeal, the Ninth Circuit’s “memo dispo” process results in
much thinner decisions for unpublished cases. 
While the court will not ignore the unpublished authority due to the 2001
rule change allowing such cases to be looked to for persuasive value, the court
does not believe it is or was meant to be a definitive recitation of California
law.  The other cases might or might not
reflect the common law view, but none of them purport to reflect California
law, which has a special statute of limitations that supersedes the common
law.  Of course, we presume that the
Legislature did not mean to supersede common law principles when it enacts
statutes.  (Atempa v. Pedrazzani
(2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 809.)  But
ultimately, the statute will prevail.
 
Because no one has cited any precedential case on point, and
the court has found none, the court must assume that this is a matter of first
impression.  Given that, the court views
the common law—which might support Gordy—and the statute and general rule—which
support Thompson.  The court also looks
to conspiracy, where the law is at least plain.
 
Turning to conspiracy, the doctrine would support
Thompson.  The law there is that once one
is in a conspiracy, that party must take some sort of affirmative act to
withdraw.  Merely not doing anything more
is not enough; there must be some affirmative and objective conduct.  Thus, for example, if a conspiracy exists to
defraud people of property, all members of the conspiracy will be liable for
the fraud even if a particular conspirator did not participate with regard to a
particular victim or stopped being active entirely.  To end the liability, the co-conspirator must
take an affirmative action, such as telling the remaining members that the
conspirator will no longer be a part of the group.  There is no allegation in the complaint that
Gordy ever took such an action.  But a
conspiracy is not the same as aiding and abetting.  The scope of liability is broader, but each
co-conspirator must be able to commit the tort. 
A person with no fiduciary duty cannot conspire to breach a fiduciary
duty, for example.  Nor is aiding and
abetting the same for purposes of public policy as conspiracy.  Notwithstanding the court’s prior musings,
the court does not believe that to stop the liability for aiding and abetting
an affirmative act is needed.
 
But that hardly answers the question.  The statute of limitations for this tort was
deliberately enacted with the recognition that it is often difficult for
victims of this kind of abuse to come forward and sue.  The common law was abrogated by the statute
for public policy reasons.  Thus, the
court tends to look at the question through the lens of recognizing that the
Legislature intended to make it easier for the victim of such abuse to bring
suits against those responsible and recognizing that victims of abuse are often
psychologically unable to come forward. 
Moreover, the Legislature expressly recognized that issues of child
custody and support often played into the psyche of a victim of abuse, making
it harder to bring a suit.  (California
Bill Analysis, S.B. 924 Assem., 7/18/1995.) 
Those are precisely the mix of things at issue in this case.  True, plaintiff’s child died and after that
issues of child custody and support were no longer in play, but it is fair to
say, at least in the court’s view, that the mind of a person who has been
abused does not work like a computer and does not have an on/off switch.  The coercion alleged—if it occurred—does not
go away immediately upon the child’s death. 
In a nutshell, the rule Gordy proposes does not further the
Legislature’s goal; in fact, it thwarts it, for it forces the victim of abuse
to come forward against an aider and abettor even when the victim cannot—as a
practical matter—come forward at all.
 
The court’s view is that it might well be that in some cases
an aider and abettor’s conduct was so particular and fleeting such that the
statute accrues on the last date of aiding and abetting.  But not in all cases, or even most.  To illustrate, one can imagine a case where
there is a ring of car thieves.  One day,
a witness sees the theft.  Upon approaching
the thieves, they offer to cut the witness in for $200 if the witness deletes
the cell phone footage of them stealing the car.  The witness agrees and not only that, tells
the police that the thieves went north when they really fled south.  Plainly aiding and abetting.  If the thieves go on to steal more cars in
the coming months, it is far from clear to the court that the aider and abettor
is liable for those other thefts.  On the
other hand, if the aider and abettor gives the cyberthieves the a list of
passwords on day 1 in return for $1000 and thereafter does nothing else, and
the thieves keep the list for 4 years, during which time they slowly drain various
victims’ bank accounts, it is not at all clear to the court that the aider and
abettor gets to walk due to the statute of limitations.  Of course these analogies, like all
analogies, break down.  But they
illustrate the point that the court does not believe that there is a
one-size-fits-all answer to the question. 
The court believes that the better rule is to presume that the
statute for aiding and abetting is co-extensive with the statute for the main
tortfeasor.   The court will not rule out
the possibility that, under a particular set of facts, the aiding and abetting
conduct may be so specific and relatively minor that the accrual will be
earlier.  But as a general rule, it runs
with the regular statute and limits to the aider and abbettor’s liability are
better dealt with when the jury apportions damages.  This also furthers the public policy
reflecting the difficulty of bringing a suit that motivated the Legislature to
change the law.  If one can presume that
the psychological trauma of the conduct is such that the victim ought not be
forced to sue until three years after the last act of abuse, it is somewhat of
an anomaly to expect the victim to sue the aider and abettor earlier than
that.  After all, it is hard to imagine
the victim suing the aider and abettor at a time when the victim is still
psychologically unable to sue to major tortfeasor.  While it might be that this tilts the pitch
in favor of the victim and against the accused aider and abettor, that is a
policy question for the Legislature to decide, and it has.
 
At least absent some significant factual showing that the
aider and abettor’s influence had completely dissipated and that it would not
be odd to assume that the victim would sue the aider and abettor but not the
main tortfeasor, the court believes that the statutes of limitations are
co-extensive.  While the court will not
definitively rule out the possibility that such a showing can be made
here—although it would be difficult—it certainly cannot be made on demurrer,
which is a pleading motion.
 
Because the court must read the complaint liberally and draw
all reasonable inferences in the cross-complainant’s favor, the court believes
that the pleadings pass muster.  Of
course, that is not to say that when evidence is considered, the gap in time
will not be too large to bridge; indeed, the court knows that Kennedy will (at
some point) so argue.  But for now, the
demurrer is OVERRULED.  Because the
demurrer is overruled on regular statute of limitations grounds, the court need
not, and does not, address equitable estoppel. 
Gordy has 30 days to answer.