 Case Number:  20SMCV00216    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the objections to the orders of
assignment and restraint.  The basic
objection seems to be that Mr. Hirsh substituted into the case as counsel for
Jona Rechnitz.  At the time the original
motion was served—in April 2024—the substitution had not yet occurred and Mr.
Hirsh was not counsel.  The court,
however, continued the original hearing because the court did not believe that
electronic service of this particular motion was sufficient standing
alone.  Mr. Hirsh claims that even after
the motion was re-served, he did not get a copy.  However, Mr. Goldflam declares the
contrary.  He states that he served Mr.
Hirsh with a courtesy copy of the papers. 
He claims that a courtesy copy was proper because Mr. Hirsh had not yet
(and still has not, according to Mr. Goldflam) done what is necessary to
substitute in officially.  Mr. Goldflam
states that notice of the moving papers was mailed to all parties with that
courtesy copy on May 15, 2024.  The next
day, May 16, 2024, Mr. Goldflam states that he gave notice of the court’s
ruling electronically to the various parties, including Mr. Hirsh (again, in
the form of a courtesy copy), and he has attached the email.  Between the proof of service and the email,
the court is confident that adequate notice was given.  Mr. Hirsh also states that during a telephone
call he asked if there was anything on the calendar other than a debtor’s exam
and that Mr. Goldflam told him that nothing else was on even though the hearing
on the assignment motion was on the calendar. 
Mr. Goldflam denies saying anything like that.  The court notes that its docket is
public.  Mr. Hirsh had the opportunity to
look at the docket and see for himself whether there was anything pending.
 
Overall, the court is confident that adequate notice was
given for the order.  Mr. Hirsh makes no
objection as to form or substance, and it appears to conform with the court’s
ruling.  The court will, therefore, sign
the order and the objections are OVERRULED. 
There will be no hearing as there is no noticed motion. 