 Case Number:  22STCV23016    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  July 18, 2022, Plaintiff Evelyn Garcia  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Qing Hua Dong (“Dong”) and  Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort.  On  January 6, 2023, Dong filed an answer.  On  February 15, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Joseph  Michael Gamgene as Doe 1 (“Gamgene”).  On  June 22, 2023, the clerk entered Gamgene’s default.  On January 2, 2024, the Court set aside  Gamgene’s default based on the stipulation of Plaintiff and Gamgene.  On  December 27, 2023, Gamgene filed an answer.  On  August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash Dong’s deposition subpoena  for production of records from GRS Funding.   The motion was set for hearing on September 19, 2024.  On September 6, 2024, Defendants Dong and  Gamgene (“Defendants”) filed an opposition. On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff  filed a reply.  The Court continued the  hearing to October 30, 2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 17, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoena for production of records which  Dong served on GRS Funding (“GRS”).  Defendants  ask the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides:  "(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon  those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  "(b) The following persons may make a motion  pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer  described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A  person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)  of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an  underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part:  “(g)  Any  consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is  a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,  prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash  or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall  be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to  production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not  invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be  raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for  liability for improper release of records.  * * *  “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to  produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been  brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action  is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. .  . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,  subd. (g).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides:  “(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making  an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under  Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the  reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,  subd. (a).)  For  discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a  party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  When  a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to  privacy, limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995)  33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and  financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the  litigant’s right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to  maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is  discoverable. (Ibid.)  “  ‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of  one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”  must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not  be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their  private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .  . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only  discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair  resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior  Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On  occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's  right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the right of civil litigants to  discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to  discovery”].)  “[A]lthough  in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have  unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient  privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they  have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to  information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not  automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt  v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [trial court  erred by placing “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain  wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].)  “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a  specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold  information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have  put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the  confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they  may have undergone in the past.” (Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.)  “Even  when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues  of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be  a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the  fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be  narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the  least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges that on January 13, 2020, on the 105 Freeway in El Segundo,  County of Los Angeles, California, Defendants negligently operated a motor  vehicle, injuring Plaintiff.   B.   The subpoena for medical records  On July 24, 2024, Dong served a deposition subpoena  asking GRS for the following:  “Complete  billing records, pertaining to the neck, back, thoracic outlet; arms, legs, radiculopathy  and headaches from 01/13/2010 to the present, including but not limited to any  records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or electronically: charges,  explanation of benefits, payments, adjustments, write-offs, balances due, and itemized  billing charges pertaining to any and all care, treatment, and/or examinations.  All billing emails between physicians and the patient, including secure  messages.  “All  documents relating to the contractual relationship between a third party  purchaser of any medical liens or accounts receivable, including but not  limited to factoring companies, and the facility this request is directed to,  including all documents disclosing the purchase price of any medical liens or  accounts receivable related to services rendered to the claimant listed below  as a result of the accident of the incident date(s) listed below pertaining to  the neck, back, thoracic outlet; arms, legs, radiculopathy and headaches from  01/13/2010 to the present.  “All  documents regarding any compensation received and/or to be received by the  facility this request is directed to for services rendered or to be rendered to  the claimant listed below as a result of the accident of the incident date(s)  listed below pertaining to the neck, back, thoracic outlet; arms, legs, radiculopathy  and headaches from 01/13/2010 to the present.  “Claimant:  Evelyn Garcia.”  C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash  Plaintiff  asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoena, arguing it is overbroad, seeks  information that is irrelevant to the case, and violates her privacy rights and  the privacy rights of third parties.  D.   Defendants’ opposition  Defendants  argue the deposition subpoena appropriately seeks information about the  reasonableness of Plaintiff’s claimed medical expenses, a potential issue at  trial.  According to Defendants, information  about the purchase of Plaintiff’s medical liens is discoverable because it is  relevant to determining the reasonable value of the medical services which  Plaintiff received.  Defendants also dispute  Plaintiff’s contention that the subpoena violates her privacy rights.   E.   Analysis  The  Court has considered the parties’ arguments and weighed Plaintiff’s privacy  rights against Defendant’s right to seek discoverable information.  The Court concludes that the subpoena is  overbroad to the extent that it requests responses “from 01/13/2010 to the  present . . . .”  Defendants  assert that they seek information only about the reasonableness of the medical  expenses that Plaintiff incurred due to Defendants’ negligence.  The Court therefore limits the time period covered by each request in the subpoena to the period from January 13, 2020 (the date of the accident) to the  present.  Defendants have not argued or  shown that pre-accident billing records or other documents will provide  discoverable information about the reasonableness of Plaintiff’s post-accident medical  expenses.  In addition, the Court limits the deposition subpoena to include only documents and information involving Plaintiff's medical treatment for injuries resulting from the January 13, 2020 accident. With  these limitations, the Court finds that the subpoena does not violate Plaintiff’s  privacy rights.  Therefore, in all other  respects, the Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Evelyn Garcia’s motion to quash the deposition subpoena  which Defendant Qing Hua Dong issued to GRS Funding on July 24, 2024 as follows:  The Court limits the time period of each request in the deposition subpoena to the period from January 13, 2020 to the present.   The Court limits the deposition subpoena to include only documents and information involving Plaintiff's medical treatment for injuries resulting from the January 13, 2020 accident.In all other respects, the Court DENIES the  motion. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.