 Case Number:  BC720451    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ JASON P. RUBIN, TRUSTEE OF THE JASON P. RUBIN REVOCABLE TRUST, DATED FEBRUARY 7, 2014, Plaintiff(s), vs. WARREN J. KESSLER, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: BC720451 Hearing Date: October 16, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jason P. Rubin, Trustee of The Jason P. Rubin Revocable Trust, dated February 7 ,2014 (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants, Warren J. Kessler, et al. alleging causes of action for an injunction and damages for interference with an easement and nuisance. On April 15, 2024, the court issued a tentative decision, in which it found in favor of Plaintiff as to the causes of action for interference with easement and nuisance, but that Plaintiff suffered nominal damages of $1 pursuant to California Civil Code Section 3360. The court found in favor of Plaintiff with respect to the breach of contract cause of action, finding that $768,000 was a reasonable amount of attorney’s fees to cover fees incurred as a result of defendants’ breaches of the settlement agreement. Lastly, the court found a basis for a permanent injunction against Joan and Warren Kessler, individually and as trustees of the Kessler Family Trust of 1990 and their successors in interest. (Min. Order, April 15, 2024.) On May 20, 2024, the court adopted the proposed statement of decision issued on April 14, 2024, and entered judgment in Plaintiff’s favor. On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for attorney fees seeking fees incurred (1) between August 4, 2018 and September 4, 2018 for work related to the hillside replanting issue, and (2) the period beginning in March 2024 through the date on the hearing on this motion. Plaintiff contends the fees were not previously requested and not part of Judge Feeney’s award of attorney fees for breach of contract damages. On October 3, 2024, Defendants Warren J. Kessler and Joan B. Kessler, individually and as trustees of The Kessler Family Trust of 1990 (“Defendants”) filed their opposition. Defendants argue that attorney fees had been elected as damages by Plaintiff has already been awarded $768,000 in fees as damages on the breach of contract claim, and that there is no support for the additional claim for attorney fees. On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ contentions, and raises the amount of fees initially sought from $160,067.15 to $205,223.12.  II. DISCUSSION Here, the parties give different accounts of what was discussed and decided before and during trial in this matter, and Judge Feeney’s intention at the time she awarded attorney fees to Plaintiff.  Defendants contend Judge Feeney gave Plaintiff a choice to seek attorney fees as damages on the breach of contract claim or to wait until there was a determination of which party was “prevailing” and file a motion seeking fees after under Civil Code § 1717. Defendants argue Plaintiff chose to seek attorney fees as damages as the only damages recoverable on the breach of contract claim, and that the fees were incorporated into the Judgment paid in full by Defendants. In support therefore, Defendants provide a copy of the transcript from the May 15, 2023 Final Status Conference and September 29, 2023 Status Conference. Plaintiff argues that on September 29, 2023, Judge Feeney stated that the prevailing party’s costs would be handled later in the usual manner, and that no law requires Plaintiff to elect between seeking damages during trial for the breach of contract claim in the form of attorney’s fees caused by the breach, and seeking post-trial additional fees as the prevailing party. Plaintiff contends that the previously omitted fees for the hillside replanting issue was not part of the breach of contract damages. The Court has reviewed the court transcripts provided by Defendants, Plaintiff’s prior motion for attorney fees, and Judge Feeney’s statement of decision. The Court is inclined to agree that the attorney fees incurred by Plaintiff were intended to be addressed in their entirety at the time the $768,000 was awarded and incorporated as part of the judgment. Absent any other evidence, the Court presumes that the prior court intended to address attorney fees only once.  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for additional attorney fees is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 15, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 