 Case Number:  24STCV07862    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Hearing on Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
The Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by Uber
Technologies Inc. is Granted.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Veronica Ortez filed this acting against Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Hong Xia Lin, Nile Dedon Willingham, Lavonne
Willingham, and doe defendants 1- 20 for damages arising from a motor vehicle
accident, which occurred on December 30, 2022.
The motion now before the Court is Uber’s motion to Compel
Arbitration. The motion is unopposed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives in the Federal Arbitration
Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
971-72. The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence; the party opposing
the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement
of the agreement. Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413. Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 empowers the court to compel parties to
arbitrate disputes under an agreement to do so. The trial court acts as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence. Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2; Provencio
v. WMA Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.
 
Here, Uber contends Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate any
claims against Uber, including those in this action. Uber asserts Plaintiff
initially registered for an Uber account on November 7, 2016, and accepted Uber’s
Terms of Use, which included an arbitration agreement. The Terms that were in
effect when Plaintiff registered for the account, were the Terms of Service
from January 2016. Plaintiff later received an email on November 14, 2016, with
the subject line “We’ve Updated Our Terms of Use” that provided notice of
updates to the Rider App Terms & Conditions. The email stated that continued
use of the Uber App would constitute assent to the updated Terms, and the Terms
were available via hyperlink in the email. The email contained the Terms of Use
from November 2016.  Uber states that the
January 2016 Terms and November 2016 Terms included a provision that all
disputes or claims arising from the Agreement would be resolved via arbitration
and the fact that all questions, including the interpretation of the scope of
the Terms, are solely within the discretion of the arbitrator. Gaddis Decl. ¶¶
7-10 Exh. B, E.
Uber argues the Terms include a clear and conspicuous
arbitration provision, and the parties agreed the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
would govern the agreement. Uber states that on February 28, 2021, December 25,
2021, and January 23, 2023, Plaintiff was presented with an in-app blocking
pop-up screen with the header, “We’ve updated our terms. Gaddis Decl. ¶ 11, Exh.
F. Under the message, the phrases “Terms of Use” and “Privacy Notice” were
displayed in blue text to set it apart from the other text on the screen and
indicate a hyperlink. The in-app pop-up screen stated, “By checking the box, I
have reviewed and agreed to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy
Notice.” Ibid. Uber contends Plaintiff clicked the checkbox and tapped “Confirm,”
and by doing so, Plaintiff expressly consented to the January 18, 2021,
December 16, 2021, and January 17, 2023, Terms by checking the box. Id.
at ¶ 14. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and, therefore, does not dispute
this action arises out of Plaintiff’s use of Uber’s services.
Clickwrap agreements are those in which website users must
click on an “I agree” box after being presented with a link to the terms and
conditions of use. Herzog v. Superior Court (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1280,
1296. Such agreements are generally enforceable if they feature reasonably
conspicuous terms and an unambiguous manifestation of assent. Ibid. 
Uber’s unopposed evidence shows Plaintiff took
affirmative actions demonstrating agreement with the license agreements and
terms of sale, all of which contained arbitration agreements. Accordingly, Uber
has shown the existence of an arbitration agreement consented to by Plaintiff.
Furthermore, the agreement provides Plaintiff agrees to arbitrate any claim
arising out of or relating to Plaintiff’s use of services, incidents, or
accidents resulting in personal injury, “whether the dispute, claim or
controversy occurred or accrued before or after the date you agreed to the
Terms.” Gaddis Decl. Exh. E.
In addition, while courts often decide issues of
arbitrability, the “‘parties can agree to arbitrate “gateway” questions of “arbitrability,”
such as whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement
covers a particular controversy.”’ Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 880, 891 (quoting Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson
(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69.)
Here, the agreement expressly grants the arbitrator
exclusive authority to resolve “any disputes relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability or formation of this Arbitration Agreement … and
that [t]he Arbitrator shall also be responsible for determining all threshold
arbitrability issues. Gaddis Decl. Exh. G.
The Court finds Uber has established there is an
enforceable agreement to arbitrate Plaintiff's claims as to Uber. Accordingly,
the Court grants Uber’s unopposed motion to arbitrate. Because there is a risk
of conflicting rulings, the case is stayed pending arbitration.
CONCLUSION
The Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by Uber is granted.
The case is ordered stayed pending binding arbitration as to the entire action.