  Case Number:  20STCV18521    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 26, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Luicila Leon v. Concord Farms Inc. et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV18521            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant OSI Staffing, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Lucila
Leon
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/15/20: Complaint filed. 
·        
08/16/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wrongful termination and employment discrimination action.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants refused to accommodate Plaintiff for a
work-related injury and terminated her for pursuing accommodations. 
 
Defendant OSI Staffing, Inc. moves
to set aside the default entered against it under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant OSI Staffing, Inc.’s
Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file and serve on all parties a clean, standalone copy of its
proposed answer within five days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant OSI Staffing, Inc. moves
to set aside the default entered against it under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5.
 
//
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
473.5 provides that, “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default . . . has
been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a
notice of motion to set aside the default . . . and for leave to defend the action.”
The notice must be served and filed “within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding . . . 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice
that the default . . . has been entered.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5(a)
[emphasis added].) Upon a finding by the Court that “the motion was made within
the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default . . . on whatever
terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 473.5(c).) “Actual notice” under this statute means “genuine knowledge
of the party litigant,” and not “constructive notice” or “imputed notice.” (Rosenthal
v. Garner (1983), 142 Cal. App. 3d 891, 895.) 
 
Timeliness
 
            Defendant
contends that this motion is timely because written notice of entry of default
was never served on Defendant. Defendant’s CEO, Jose Vazquez, states under
penalty of perjury that he did not become aware of the entry of default
judgment until February 15, 2024. (Declaration of Jose Vazquez ISO Mot. ¶ 5.).
An examination of the Court’s records reveals that no proof of service
regarding the entry of default is on file, only a proof of service for the request
for entry of default filed by Plaintiff on July 20, 2023. (See Declaration of
Samantha Ortiz ISO Opp. Exh. K.) Construing these facts in the light most
favorable to the moving parties, as required on this motion, the Court finds
that Defendant was not served with notice of entry of default. Thus,
Defendant’s motion is timely. 
 
Actual Notice
 
            Defendant
contends that it never received actual notice of the action because it was
never served with the Summons and Complaint. The proof of service filed with
the Court on March 15, 2023, states that Defendant was served by substituted service,
leaving the documents with Jade Cervantez, a Human Resource Assistant, on March
13, 2023, at Defendant’s business address of 10913 La Reina Ave Ste B Downey,
CA and thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint on March 14 to
that same address. (March 15, 2023 Proof of Service on Defendant OSI Staffing.)
Mr. Vazquez categorically states that he never received these documents, and
Defendant has no record of these documents being served on that date. (Vazquez
Decl. ¶ 2.) Mr. Vazquez also states that Defendant has no recollection of
receiving the request for entry of default filed on July 20, 2023, and
Defendant likewise has no record of this filing. (¶ 3.) Defendant suggests that
Plaintiff has a history of confusing Defendant OSI Staffing with the
now-terminated entity Opportunity Staffing, Inc. and of serving that Defendant
at the moving Defendant’s address. In particular, Defendant emphasizes that
Plaintiff’s Default Package does not identify OSI Staffing nor list its address
on Plaintiff’s proof of service. (See September 22, 2023 Proof of Service by
Mail.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that Defendant was properly served and asserts
that its lack of knowledge is the result of inexcusable neglect. Plaintiff
offers no evidence that would rebut the sworn testimony of Defendant’s
personnel that they had no knowledge of the pending action until they received the
proposed default judgment in February. In light of the strong presumption in
favor of litigation on the merits, the Court finds that Defendant is entitled
to an order setting aside the default on this basis.
 
Plaintiff also requests an award of
attorney’s fees if the Court is inclined to set aside the default. The Court
does not think it appropriate to award attorney’s fees where the basis for
setting aside the default is a failure to place the defaulting party on actual
notice of the action.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant OSI Staffing, Inc.’s Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file and serve on all parties a clean, standalone copy of its
proposed answer within five days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 26, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 