 Case Number:  23STCV08250    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 26, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Nancy Goulston v. California TD
Specialists
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08250            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT IN INTERPLEADER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant California TD Specialists
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Nancy
Goulston
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for violation of Civil Code section 2924j that was
filed on April 13, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to properly
disburse the proceeds from a Trustee’s Sale. 
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint in interpleader. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to
File Cross-Complaint in Interpleader is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file a clean, stand-alone copy of the proposed cross-complaint
and deposit the disputed funds with the Court within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint in interpleader. 
 
            “Any
person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom double or
multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which
are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may
bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate
their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386(b).) “When a person may be
subject to conflicting claims for money or property, the person may bring an
interpleader action to compel the claimants to litigate their claims among
themselves. (Id.) Once the person admits liability and deposits the
money with the court, he or she is discharged from liability and freed from the
obligation of participating in the litigation between the claimants.
[Citations.] The purpose of interpleader is to prevent a multiplicity of suits
and double vexation. [Citation.]” (City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) 
 
“In an interpleader action, the
court initially determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds;
if that right is sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires
the defendants to interplead and litigate their claims to the funds. Upon an
admission of liability and deposit of monies with the court, the plaintiff may
then be discharged from liability and dismissed from the interpleader action.
[Citations.] The effect of such an order is to preserve the fund, discharge the
stakeholder from further liability, and to keep the fund in the court's custody
until the rights of potential claimants of the monies can be adjudicated.
[Citations.] Thus, the interpleader proceeding is traditionally viewed as two
lawsuits in one. The first dispute is between the stakeholder and the claimants
to determine the right to interplead the funds. The second dispute to be
resolved is who is to receive the interpleaded funds. [Citations.]” (Dial
800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 42–43.)
 
Defendant contends that it
conducted a foreclosure on a parcel of real property at 746 Rosencrans Ave,
Manhattan Beach, CA 90266. (Declaration of Kelsey Luu ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Defendant
states that, aside from Plaintiff, three other entities named as
cross-defendants in the proposed cross-complaint assert claims to the surplus
funds from the foreclosure sale. (Id. ¶¶ 5-8.) Defendant states that it
has no personal claim to the funds. (¶ 9.) Defendant therefore seeks to deposit
the disputed funds with the Court and file a cross-complaint in interpleader
pursuant to Civil Code section 2924j, subdivision (b). 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that the other liens identified by Defendant are invalid because the
judgment which is identified as their basis does not reference the property
that is the subject of this action. Plaintiff therefore argues that leave to
file a cross-complaint should be denied under Placer Foreclosure, Inc. v.
Aflalo (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1113. The validity of these liens is the
central question of a complaint-in-interpleader. Such questions therefore go
directly to the merits of the complaint and are more properly resolved in a
motion challenging the merits, just as in Placer. (Id.) The Court
therefore declines to address these arguments in the context of this motion. The
Court is similarly disinclined to order an evidentiary hearing before
permitting Defendant to file the cross-complaint in interpleader, as any
challenge to Defendant’s right to interplead may be heard through a regularly
noticed motion on the merits. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint in Interpleader is
GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed cross-complaint and
deposit the disputed funds with the Court within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 26, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 