  Case Number:  23LBCV01745    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundPlaintiff sets forth the following causes of action in First Amended Complaint (“FAC”):1. Unequal Protection of The Law2. Violation of Unruh Act § 513. Negligence4. False Arrest/Imprisonment5. Medical Malpractice6. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Harm7. Violation Of Civil Rights: Monell Claim8. Negligence Of Government Employees and Public Entity Vicarious Liability for Their Acts Pursuant to Government Code § 820, 820.8, 815.2 Et Al.9. Fraud10. Petition For Relief from Claim Requirement Against Defendant City of Long Beach11. Declare Welfare & Institutions Code § 5150 And Related Statutes Unconstitutional Against State of CaliforniaOn March 21, 2024, Defendant Los Alamitos Medical Center (“Los Alamitos”) filed the instant Demurrer as to the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 98th causes of action. Defendant Los Alamitos also filed a Motion to Strike ¶¶ 72, 85, 104 and the Prayer for Damages, page 30, Items 5- 8 of the FAC. On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On August 7, 2024, Defendant Los Alamitos filed a reply.Legal Standard - DemurrerA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be.A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50, subd. (a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a), a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, a demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) And, if the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as plead in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Finally, Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)Legal Standard - Motion to StrikeA party may move to strike matters from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false or improper. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436, subd. (a).) Motion to strike may also target all or any part of pleadings not filed or drawn in conformity with the applicable laws, rules or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) A Motion to Strike is the proper procedure fortesting the adequacy of a punitive damages allegation because punitive damages are not a cause of action. (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.)Prior to filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2) & (3).Meet and Confer RequirementThe Court finds that the parties meet and conferred.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Los Alamitos’ Request for Judicial Notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint filed September 14, 2023 and Los Alamitos Medical Center’s 2022 License to Operate as a General Acute Care Hospital is granted pursuant to Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c) and (d).Demurrer DiscussionPursuant to CCP § 430.10, Defendant Los Alamitos demurs to the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 9th causes of action on the grounds the claims are uncertain and fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As to the 4th and 5th causes of action, Defendant Los Alamitos argues the causes of action are time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations (CCP §§ 340(c) and 340.5.)2nd Cause of Action (Violation of the Unruh Act)The elements of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are (1) defendant is a business establishment, (2) defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations, advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, (3) defendant was motivated to do so based on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined group, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970) 3 Cal.3d 205, 216.) “The objective of the Act is to prohibit businesses from engaging in unreasonable, arbitrary or invidious discrimination. Therefore, the Act applies not merely in situations where businesses exclude individuals altogether, but also where treatment is unequal.” (Pizarro v. Lamb's Players Theatre (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1174.)Defendant Los Alamitos contends 2nd cause of action fails to state a claim for relief as it lacks allegations of Defendant Los Alamitos’ specific intentional acts of discrimination against Plaintiff as the allegations merely are conclusory and not factually supported. (See FAC ¶ 53.) In support, Defendant Los Alamitos references that the allegations are against all “Medical Defendants,” and do not specifically allege discriminatory actions allegedly taken by Defendant Los Alamitos. (See FAC ¶¶ 65-72.) Lastly, Defendant Los Alamitosinsists Plaintiff’s counsel previously agreed to dismiss the 2nd cause of action against Defendant Los Alamitos. (Heider Decl., ¶ 3.)In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that sufficient facts have been alleged, specifically that Defendant Los Alamitos fabricated a consent form and/or falsely caused Plaintiff to sign a consent form and wrongfully transported Plaintiff to a medical detention center. (FAC ¶¶ 30, 31.) The Court notes that Plaintiff makes no mention to an agreement with Defendant Los Alamitos to dismiss this cause of action.In response, Defendant Los Alamitos again insists that no allegations have been asserted by Plaintiff that sufficiently allege intentional discriminatory acts or denials of full and equal treatment based on Plaintiff’s race or sex this defendant.The Court agrees with Defendant Los Alamitos. Plaintiff’s claims are uncertain, and she has not asserted sufficient facts to support allegations that Defendant Los Alamitos intentionally discriminated or denied full and equal treatment to Plaintiff based on her race or sex. FAC ¶¶ 30 and 31 are insufficient. Defendant Los Alamitos’ Demurrer to the 2nd Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.4th (False Imprisonment) and 5th Causes of Action (Medical Malpractice)Code Civ. Proc. § 340.5 states that: “[i]n an action for injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.”Defendant Los Alamitos argues Plaintiff’s 4th Cause of Action (false imprisonment) and 5ht Cause of Action (medical malpractice) claims are subject to Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5 and are thus timely barred. (See Flores v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75, 89 [upholding a trial court’s sustaining of the hospital demurrer based on the one-year statute of limitations because professional negligence per Code Civ., § 340.5, applied when a plaintiff fell from her bed due to the defendant hospital’s failure to use or maintain equipment integrally related to her medical diagnosis and treatment.]) Defendant Los Alamitos maintains Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action (false imprisonment) is governed by Code Civ. Proc., § 340(c), which requires the filing of a complaint within one year of the date of the incident. Defendant Los Alamitos asserts the 5th cause of action (medical malpractice) is governed by Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5, which must be filed within one year of the alleged malpractice. Defendant Los Alamitos maintains the one-year statute was “triggered” on the day of admission - September 7, 2022 – as Plaintiff then knew that she was being held against her will and without her consent at that time. (FAC ¶ 28.) Although ¶ 59 of the FAC asserts the initial complaint was filed on September 6, 2023,Defendant Los Alamitos notes the Court’s record establish that the initial complaint was filed on September 14, 2023.In response, Plaintiff insists the one-year statute of limitation under Code Civ. Proc., §§ 340 and 340.5 was met. First, Plaintiff suggests that the “deadline” for filing the false imprisonment and medical malpractice claims against Defendant Los Alamitos could, alternatively, be on September 7, 11, or 12, 2023. (See FAC ¶¶ 29, 41, 43; Moving Papers 8:22-26.) Plaintiff states that the complaint was initially filed on September 7, 2023, however, was rejected by the clerk for the following reason: “[a]ll party names must be stated in portal and must match what is on documents. (See Exs. 1-2.) Plaintiff points to Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (e)(4)(E), which states:“[i]f the clerk of the court does not file a complaint or cross complaint because the complaint or cross complaint does not comply with applicable filing requirements or the required filing fee has not been paid, any statute of limitations applicable to the causes of action alleged in the complaint or cross complaint shall be tolled for the period beginning on the date on which the court received the document and as shown on the confirmation of receipt described in subparagraph (A), through the later of either the date on which the clerk of the court sent the notice of rejection described in subparagraph (C) or the date on which the electronic filing service provider or electronic filing manager sent the notice of rejection as described in subparagraph (D), plus one additional day if the complaint or cross complaint is subsequently submitted in a form that corrects the errors which caused the document to be rejected. The party filing the complaint or cross complaint shall not make any change to the complaint or cross complaint other than those required to correct the errors which caused the document to be rejected.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6.)In reply, Defendant Los Alamitos points out the inconsistency in Plaintiff’s position. Page 9, Line 11 of the Opposition states the initial complaint was filed on September 7, 2023, but ¶ 59 of the FAC states that the initial complaint was filed on September 6, 2023. Defendant Los Alamitos points out that Plaintiff is the only party in possession of the receipt confirmation as described in Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (e)(4)(C) and (D) and has not attached any exhibits providing such confirmation in her Opposition.Defendants Los Alamitos’ argument is well taken. The Court notes that Plaintiff has not attached any exhibits to the Opposition to support her claim that the initial complaint wastimely filed but rejected by the Court. The Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND Defendant Los Alamitos’ Demurer to the 4th and 5th Causes of Action.6th Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressThe essential elements for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct; (2) an intent to cause or a reckless disregard of the possibility of causing emotional distress; (3) severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress by the outrageous conduct. (Symonds v. Mercury Sav. & Loan Ass’n (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1458,1468.) Outrageous conduct is conduct that “exceed[s] all bounds usually tolerated by decent society, of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress of a very serious kind.” (Ochoa v. Superior Court (1985) 39 Cal.3d 159, 166 fn. 5.)Defendant Los Alamitos argues Plaintiff’s claims for IIED fails to identify any extreme and outrageous conduct by this Defendant. Instead, Plaintiff merely alleges that Defendant Los Alamitos administered a sedative or other medication without her consent, was not properly examined by medical providers, was not a facility with designed to evaluation and treatment purposes as required from the State of California for persons held under 5150, and was negligent in not releasing Plaintiff and/or holding her until she would be transferred to Defendant Del Amo Hospital without valid consent. (FAC ¶¶ 25-29.)In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that she has alleged sufficient facts to state an intentional infliction of emotional distress claim. Specifically, Plaintiff points to the 16 hours between admission to Defendant Los Alamitos’ facility to Defendant Del Amo Hospital for a proper evaluation as the basis of this claim.The Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations likely rise to the level of “negligent” but not “intentional” infliction of emotional distress. The allegations against Defendant Los Alamitos as currently alleged do not rise to the level of “outrageous” or “reckless conduct.” Defendant Los Alamitos’ Demurrer to the 6th Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.9th Cause of Action (Fraud)“The elements of fraud “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)Defendant Los Alamitos asserts Plaintiff’s fraud claim is not pled with the required particularity. The allegations are merely conclusory as the cause of action is to “all” Defendants and does not demonstrate “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means” Defendant Los Alamitos made any misrepresentations to or concealed information to Plaintiff.Plaintiff opposes, arguing that the facts specifically alleged include actions by each and all defendants establishing the requisite elements. Plaintiff asserts that allegations will be bolstered through expert testimony, witness testimony and more.Plaintiff faces heightened pleading requirements to state a fraud claim and Plaintiff has not plead facts to support a fraud claim against Defendant Los Alamitos with the requisite particularity. Defendant Los Alamitos Demurer to the 9th Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.Motion to StrikeDefendant Los Alamitos moves to strike paragraphs 72, 85, 104 and paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Prayer for Relief of Plaintiffs FAC. (See FAC ¶¶ 72, 85, 104; see also FAC., Prayer for Relief.) Defendant Los Alamitos claims Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to dismiss/ withdraw all claims for punitive damages against Defendant Los Alamitos. (Heider Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff makes no reference to such an agreement in her opposition.Tentative RulingDefendant Los Alamitos’ Demurrer to the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 9th Causes of Action are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff has 20 days from the date of this ruling to amend.Based upon the Court’s ruling on Defendant Los Alamitos’ Demurrer, the Motion to Strike as to ¶¶ 72, 85, 104 and paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Prayer for Relief of Plaintiffs FAC is moot.