  Case Number:  23STCV00490    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINTOn August 13, 2021, Kari Marie Lee and Gregory Lee filed their initial
complaint for personal injury caused by asbestos exposure.  On April 7, 2022, they filed a first amended
complaint including causes of action under Government Code sections 835 and
815.4.  On November 11, 2022, Plaintiffs
Kari Marie Lee, Christopher Lee, and Ryan James Lee filed a second amended
complaint for wrongful death and survival action of Gregory Lee.
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave file a third
amended complaint to allege a cause of action under Section 905(b) of the
Longshore and Harbor Worker’s Compensation Act against Defendant City of Long
Beach as vessel owner of the RMS Queen Mary.
Plaintiffs’ counsel states he became aware of the possible application of
maritime while preparing for the deposition of Defendant’s witness, Johnny
Vallejo, on December 19, 2023.  (Robert
Decl., at ¶ 11.)  Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ delay in seeking amendment is inexcusable and unwarranted.  (Opposition at p. 4.)  Defendant contends Plaintiffs learned the information
earlier through newspaper articles later used in Vallejo’s deposition and four
prior deposition transcripts.  (Id.
at pp. 4-5.)  However, Plaintiffs’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient to show he discovered the potential cause
of action during deposition preparation of Vallejo.
Defendant also argues it will be prejudiced by the amendment because the parties
have completed fact discovery, Defendant has filed its motion for summary
judgment, and Defendant will not be able to conduct necessary discovery.  (Id. at pp. 5-7.)  On February 13, 2024, the Court granted a
stipulation to continue the trial and all pre-trial deadlines.  The trial date is now on August 5, 2024, so
there is sufficient time for the parties to conduct necessary discovery and
file motions.  Thus, there is no
prejudice shown.   
Accordingly, this motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs are to file and serve the third
amended complaint within five days of the date of this order.  All defendants must answer or otherwise
respond to the third amended complaint, even if they previously answered an
earlier complaint.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.