 Case Number:  23STCV19133    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (PTI) Plaintiffs Mehran Mottahedeh
and Martha Saucedo allege that Mehran Mottahedeh developed mesothelioma from
asbestos-containing talc in Gold Bond powder.  On October 10, 2023, Defendant PTI Union LLC filed
a motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  Plaintiffs asked for jurisdictional discovery,
and so the court continued the hearing and allowed supplemental briefing.  Plaintiffs did not file a supplemental
brief.  On December 13, 2024, Defendant
filed a supplemental reply.A
defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the
complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to
Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581,
subd. (h).)
"A
court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of this state or of the United States."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.)  "The Due Process Clause protects an
individual's liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of
a forum with which he has established no meaningful 'contacts, ties, or
relations."'  (Burger King Corp.
v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.) 
A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction over a party under
circumstances that would offend "traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice."  (Asahi
Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court of California, Solano County (1987)
480 U.S. 102, 113.)
When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.  (Jayone Foods, Inc.
v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the
forum state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
(Ibid.)  "The
plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits and other
authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory
assertions of ultimate facts. 
[Citation.]"  (Strasner v.
Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A
defendant is subject to a state's general jurisdiction if its contacts
"are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially at home
in the forum State."  (Daimler AG
v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127.) 
A nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of
the forum "if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of
forum benefits [citation], and the 'controversy is related to or "arises
out of' a defendant's contacts with the forum.' 
[Citations.]"  (Vons Companies,
Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.  (1996)
14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This test does not
require a "causal relationship between the defendant's in-state activity
and the litigation."  (Ford Motor
Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017,
1026.)  The "arise out" of
standard "asks about causation," but "relate to" does
not.  (Ibid.)  "[W]hen a corporation has
'continuously and deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably
anticipate being haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based
on' products causing injury there." 
(Id. at p. 1027.)
Defendant states that it
was formed as a Delaware limited liability company on November 13, 2007, and
its principal place of business is in Union, Missouri.  (Brasher Decl., ¶3; Pangburn Decl. Ex. B.)  Therefore, it is not a resident of California
and not subject to its general jurisdiction. 
Plaintiffs do not contest that there is no general jurisdiction over
Defendant. 
Defendant asserts
California lacks specific jurisdiction because Defendant blended and bottled
talcum products in Union, Missouri for Chattem, Inc., the branded product owner, and had no role in
determining the content of the label, final release, commercial distribution,
sale, or marketing of those designated products to consumer.  (Motion at p. 8; Brashner Decl., ¶¶ 5,
7.)  Defendant has not submitted evidence
of these assertions beyond a conclusory declaration. 
Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant placed the product in the stream of commerce.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs cite evidence that Defendant made
and package Gold Bond products from April 1996 to 2014.  (Opposition, Ex. 4 at p. 2.)  Further, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s
role was integral because it has been the sole entity responsible for manufacturing
all Gold Bond talc from 1996 through the present.  (Id. at p. 6.)  Defendant argues that Chattem, not Defendant,
places Gold Bond on the market.  (Reply
at p. 2.)
“In the products
liability context, merely placing a product into the stream of commerce, even
with knowledge that the product might enter the forum state, is not a
sufficient basis for personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant.  [Citations.] 
On the other hand, ‘if the sale of a product of a manufacturer or
distributor . . . is not simply an isolated occurrence, but arises from the
efforts of the manufacturer or distributor to serve, directly or indirectly,
the market for its product in other States, it is not unreasonable to subject
it to suit in one of those State if its allegedly defective merchandise has
there been the source of injury to its owner or to others.’  [Citation.]” 
(Jayone, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at pp. 558-559.)  “[T]he indirect placement of products into
the stream of commerce does not necessarily insulate a foreign manufacturer
from the jurisdiction of California courts. 
Even an indirect effort to serve a California market for a
manufacturer's product may reasonably make that manufacturer subject to suit in
California if its product has caused injury.” 
(In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 100, 115.)  “A nonresident
defendant's indirect sales through its California distributors constitutes
economic activity in California as a matter of commercial actuality when the
defendant earned substantial gross income from that activity.”  (Id. at p. 116.)
At the first hearing, the court stated Plaintiffs have the
right to discover whether Defendant’s manufacturing and packaging of Gold Bond
for Chattem who then shipped the product to California was more than an
isolated occurrence and arose from Defendant’s purposeful efforts to market its
products in California.  However,
according to Defendant’s supplemental brief, Plaintiffs did not conduct any
jurisdictional discovery.  And Plaintiffs
did not file a supplemental brief.
Because Plaintiffs
did not satisfy their burden, the motion is GRANTED.  The complaint against PTI Union is DISMISSED
without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision
(h).
The moving party is to
give notice. 
 