 Case Number:  22STCV01209    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
January 12, 2022, Plaintiff Scottsdale Insurance
Company (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Creative Care,
Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general negligence. 
On
April 28, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue the trial, to be heard
on December 5, 2023. On November 20, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition. On
November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court continue the trial to allow Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication and motion to compel further responses to be heard prior
to trial. 
Defendant
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), provides that “a party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
          Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), the Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to
death, illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 

DISCUSSION 
          On November 30, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further discovery responses to December 26, 2023
because the Court could not provide a tentative ruling on November 30.  The Court grants the request to continue the
trial until after the continued hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
discovery. 
Plaintiff
also requests a continuance to permit a hearing on its motion for summary adjudication.  Defendant has not yet filed a motion for
summary adjudication.  The Court will not
grant a continuance based on a motion that has not been filed. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART the motion to continue the trial and related dates filed
by Plaintiff Scottsdale Insurance Company.  Trial is continued to January 16, 2024 or the
next available date on the Court's calendar, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 in the Spring Street
Courthouse. All related dates and deadlines will be based on the new trial
date.  In all other respects, the motion
is DENIED. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.