 Case Number:  22STCV04701    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Emma Silva, by and through
her guardian ad litem Elizabeth Silva, Elizabeth Silva, and Josue Silva
filed this action against Defendants Ikea U.S. Retail, LLC, Ikea Property,
Inc., Ikea U.S. West, Inc., and Does 1-100 for premises liability, negligence,
and negligent infliction of emotional distress.  
On
October 21, 2022, Defendants Ikea U.S. Retail, LLC, Ikea Property, Inc., and Ikea
U.S. West, Inc. filed an answer. 
On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs submitted a petition for approval of minor’s compromise
to be heard on December 5, 2023. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 15, 2024. 
PETITIONER’S REQUEST 
Petitioner
Elizabeth Silva asks the Court to approve the compromise of the pending action
of Emma Silva (“Claimant”). 
DISCUSSION 
Section
12a of the petition omits requested information for all but one of the categories
listed, including the total medical expenses before any reductions, the total
amount of negotiated, contractual, and statutory reductions, the total medical
expenses to be paid or reimbursed from the settlement proceeds, and the total
amount of contractual or statutory liens. 
Section 12b(4) of the petition states that Medi-Cal paid $5,000 of the
medical expenses.  Section 12b(4)(a) states
that notice of this claim or action was given to the Director of Health Care
Services and a copy of the notice and proof of delivery was filed in this case,
but the petition does not include the date of filing.  Petitioner should provide the date of filing so
the Court can review the notice and proof of delivery. 
Section
16b of the petition states that $5,000 in medical expenses will be paid from
the settlement proceeds.  Based on the medical procedures described
in the petition, however, it seems possible that more than $5,000 in medical
expenses have been incurred to treat Claimant’s injuries.  The petition must (1) list all of the medical
expenses incurred as a result of the accident and
(2) show that the minor’s compromise will reimburse all of the medical
expenses that have not been reduced or waived. 
The
Court denies the petition. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the petition filed by Petitioner Elizabeth Silva to approve the compromise
of Plaintiff Emma Silva’s claims without prejudice. 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Petitioner
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.