 Case Number:  19STCV30200    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
26, 2019, Plaintiff Donnovan Lewery filed this action against Defendants
Club DB Lounge, Hayk Gevorkyan, Frontline Protection,
Inc. (“Frontline”), and Does 1-25 for negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision, premises liability, assault, battery, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
On
October 7, 2019, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Club DB Lounge (also
referred to as Downey’s Billiard LLC dfba Club db Lounge) and Hayk Gevorkyan
(also referred to as Hayk Geborkyan) filed a general denial and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Frontline and Roes 1-100 for indemnity. 
On
February 14, 2020, the clerk entered Frontline’s default on Plaintiff’s
complaint.  On January 18, 2023, the Court set aside Frontline’s
default.  On January 19, 2023, Frontline
filed a general denial. 
On August
23, 2022, the Court dismissed the cross-complaint of Club DB Lounge and Hayk
Gevorkyan without prejudice at their request. 
On
June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem admitted the matters specified
in requests for admission served on Frontline and for sanctions.  Frontline has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 25, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
requests an order deeming admitted matters specified in requests for admission,
set one, served on Frontline and awarding sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280 provides: 
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
July 11, 2023, Frontline’s counsel filed a substitution of attorney form
purporting to substitute Frontline, as a party representing itself, in place of
counsel.  The substitution was ineffective.
“Although
it has capacity to sue and defend, a corporation is not a natural person, and
therefore cannot appear in an action in propria persona.  It can appear only through counsel.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 2:112, p. 2-53.) 
The
Judicial Council substitution of attorney form contained a “NOTICE TO PARTIES APPLYING
TO REPRESENT THEMSELVES” which listed several types of parties, including
corporations, which “may NOT act as your own attorney in most cases.”  The form specifies that it should be used to “substitute
one attorney for another attorney.”  Frontline's counsel, E. Steve Najera, has not effectively substituted another attorney in his place.  Therefore, he remains counsel for Frontline.
Frontline’s
counsel did not file a response to Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the
matters specified in Plaintiff’s requests for admission, apparently believing
he no longer represented Frontline in this case.  Plaintiff has three other pending discovery
motions against Frontline scheduled for December 7, 2023, to which Frontline also
has not responded. 
The
Court continues the motion regarding requests for admission, scheduled for December
5, 2023, as well as the three motions to compel scheduled for December 7, 2023, to a date
to be determined at the December 5, 2023 hearing.  The Court orders counsel for Frontline to appear
at the continued hearing. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion of Plaintiff
Donnovan Lewery to deem admitted the matters specified in requests for admission,
set one, served on Defendant Frontline Protection, Inc., and for sanctions to a
date to be determined at the December 5, 2023 hearing. 
The Court advances to today, and continues to a date
to be determined at the December 5, 2023 hearing, the hearings on the following
additional motions currently scheduled for December 7, 2023:  (1) Plaintiff
Donnovan Lewery’s motion to compel Defendant Frontline Protection, Inc.’s
responses to demand for production of documents, set one, and for sanctions,
(2) Plaintiff Donnovan Lewery’s motion to compel Defendant
Frontline Protection, Inc.’s responses to special interrogatories, set one, and
for sanctions, and (3) Plaintiff Donnovan Lewery’s motion to compel Defendant
Frontline Protection, Inc.’s responses to form interrogatories, set one, and
for sanctions. 
The Court orders counsel for Defendant Frontline
Protection, Inc., E. Steve Najera, to appear, either remotely or in person, at the continued hearing. 
Moving party is to give notice of the Court’s ruling,
including notice to counsel for Defendant Frontline Protection, Inc. 
Moving party is to file proof of service of the Court’s
ruling within five days.