  Case Number:  22STCV23711    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  26 07/22/2024
Dept. 26
Rolf M. Treu, Assigned Judge presiding
 
D.R. v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (22STCV23711)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Jamie M.
Majerus/ Herman Law
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Jeffery P. Wade
Jr. 
 
motion for summary judgment and in the
alternative summary adjudication (filed 12/14/2023)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Motion for Summary Judgment and in the alternative Summary Adjudication
is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 22, 2022, Plaintiff D.R. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD” or “Defendant”)
alleging that he was sexually abused and molested by an employee of the school
district while he attended Middleton
Street Elementary School (“Middleton”).

 
Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on April 25, 2023, alleging two causes of action
against Defendant for 1) Negligence and 2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision.

 
On December 14, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Summary
Judgment and in the alternative Summary Adjudication, arguing:
·                
Defendant argues that summary judgment
should be granted as it is undisputed that LAUSD did not employ Mr. Rico while
Plaintiff attended Middleton (Mot. p. 9.)
o   Plaintiff attended Middleton in 1986 and did not return to Middleton for
the second grade, which would have been during the 1987-88 academic year.  (Def. Exh. A, 34:7-17.)
o   Plaintiff claims that he was molested by a “Mr. Rico” while attending
Middleton. (Id. 46:20-22, 48:2-5.)
o   Deputy Director of Employee Relations in the Office of Employee
Relations, Matthew Frohwein’s review of the records does not indicate that LUSD
employed Mr. Rico during the 1986-87 school year. (Frohwein Decl. ¶ 4.)  LAUSD records indicate that it employed Mr.
Rico during the 1982-83 school year. (Id. ¶ 5.) Mr. Rico did not work
for LAUSD until he was reemployed in July 1987, after Plaintiff left Middleton.
(Id.)
·                
There is no evidence that any
administrator knew or should have known that Mr. Rico posed a reasonably
foreseeable risk of harm to students. (Mot. p. 10.)
·                
Plaintiff’s description of the
Perpetrator does not match the Mr. Rico hired by LAUSD. (Mot. p. 9:21-25.)
o   Plaintiff’s own testimony the Mr. Rico LAUSD employed in July 1987 was
not the person who allegedly molested D.R. D.R. claimed that a “Mr. Rico” molested
him. (Def. Exh. A, p. 72:2-14.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:
·                
LAUSD's motion should be denied because the evidence suggests that
the defendant, who has sole custody of the relevant files, might not be able to
search for past employees with the first, middle, or nickname "Rico."
(Opp’n p. 6.)
o   Just because
LAUSD does not have records of an employee with the last name "Rico"
does not mean they did not employ someone with the first, middle, or nickname
"Rico." (Id.)
·                
Plaintiff’s testimony and corroborative evidence raises questions
of fact regarding the employee-employer relationship between LAUSD and
Perpetrator that cannot be resolved on summary judgment. (Id.)
o   Plaintiff specifically testified that he recalls the abuse happening at
Middleton in first grade. (Plaintiff Depo. 46:13-22.)
o   Plaintiff believed that Defendant employed the perpetrator based on his
observations, including that the Perpetrator brought Plaintiff into the
Perpetrator’s office inside the School and that Plaintiff waited for the
perpetrator to gather his belongings inside of the school before driving
Plaintiff home. (Id. p. 51:24-52:24.)
o   Plaintiff’s testimony additionally indicates that he could testify in
detail as to what the Perpetrator’s office looked like inside. (Id. p.
54:1-5.)
·                
Alternatively, the motion for summary judgment is premature and
should be continued under CCP § 437c(h). (Opp’n pp. 7-8.)
o   Plaintiff
contends that the deposition of LAUSD’s PMK could lead to evidence and
additional information needed by Plaintiff to respond to LAUSD’s motion for
summary judgment fully. (Id. p. 7: 22-28.)
o   Plaintiff’s
counsel, Jamie Majerus, states that the documents are essential and testimony has
yet to be obtained in discovery, likely leading to relevant facts for the
summary judgment determination. (Majerus Decl.)
In reply, Defendant reasserts that
Plaintiff still cannot establish that the alleged perpetrator with the first
name, middle name, or nickname of Rico was employed by LAUSD. Defendant cannot
be held vicariously liable because the plaintiff is unable to identify the
alleged perpetrator or any negligent conduct by supervisory personnel and
cannot name an administrator or supervisor who was negligent in the hiring,
training, or supervising of an unidentified alleged perpetrator. Defendant
finally contends that Plaintiff’s 437c(h) request is inappropriate as the Court
has already granted two continuances on this motion and Plaintiff did not take
the Deposition on LAUSD’s PMK. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY RULINGS
 
Defendant’s Objections 
 
Defendant’s Objections are OVERRULED under CRC rule 3.1352(1) as the
objections were not properly filed. The document filed appears to be a copy of
the Defendant’s reply separate statement. The Court will proceed to the merits
below. 
 
III. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment
 
A party
seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts
sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c(c).) The moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she is
entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an
opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995)
35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.) Thus, “the initial burden is always on the
moving party to make prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) When
a defendant seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence
that either one or more elements of a cause of action cannot be established or
that there is a complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(p)(2).) The moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not
legal conclusions, or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the
evidence in support of the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the
opposing party. (Hayman v. Block
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf,
128 Cal.App.4th at 1519; Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 
The opposing
party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to
produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial
movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life
Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the initial
movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to show,
with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the weighing
procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).) The opposing party may not
simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must present
evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere
speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) Summary judgment must be granted “if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
B.     Discussion. 
 
In order to
state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
The elements
of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision are: (1)
the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the employee
was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue risk of
harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot prove that Defendant employed the Perpetrator when
the alleged incidents occurred. (Mot.
p. 9.) 
 
Defendant
provides the following evidence.  Plaintiff attended Middleton during his first-grade
year in 1986 and did not return to Middleton for the second grade, which would
have been during the 1987-88 academic year. 
(Def. Exh. A, 34:7-17.) Plaintiff
alleges that he was molested by “Mr. Rico” while attending Middleton. (Id.
46:20-22, 48:2-5.) Matthew
Frohwein, the Deputy Director of Employee Relations in the Office of Employee
Relations, reviewed the records and found no indication that LASD employed a
Mr. Rico during the 1986-87 school year. (Frohwein Decl. ¶ 4.)  LAUSD records indicate that it employed a Mr.
Rico during the 1982-83 school year. (Id. ¶ 5.) Mr. Rico did not work
for LAUSD until he was reemployed in July 1987, after Plaintiff left Middleton.
(Id.) 
 
Defendant further cites Plaintiff’s deposition testimony in which he
confirms that the Mr. Rico LAUSD employed in July 1987 was not the person who
allegedly molested Plaintiff. (Def. Exh. A, p. 72:2-14.) Plaintiff described
the Perpetrator as light-skinned, tall, with brown comb-over hair, oversized
reading glasses, always wearing a polo shirt, thinly built, and with no facial
hair. (Id. p. 48:9-14.) Plaintiff testified that he could recognize the Perpetrator
if he saw him today. (Id. p. 73.:15-17.) Middleton’s Administrative Assistant, Juanita Ramos, states that
she searched for photographs and records related to an employee named Mr. Rico.
(Ramos Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Ramos searched through old employee files at Middleton
but found no documents relating to Mr. Rico. (Id.) Ms. Ramos looked
through a filing cabinet that contained binders of classroom photographs and
photographs of staff. (Id. ¶ 3.) The only photograph found with Mr.
Rico’s name was a classroom photo for Mr. Rico’s third-grade class for the
1987-1988 school year. (Id.) The classroom photograph shows the
Middleton Street Elementary School Third Grade Class taught by Mr. Rico. (Id.;
Def. Ex. “C”.) Ms. Ramos did not locate any other documents or photographs with
the name Mr. Rico on them. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff was shown the picture of
Mr. Rico’s 1987-88 third-grade class at his deposition and testified that no
one in the photo looked like the perpetrator. (Def. Exh. A p. 72:2-14.) 
 
Based on the
evidence provided Defendant has satisfied its initial burden. Here, Defendant
has shown evidence that it did not employ a person by the name of Mr. Rico
during the time Plaintiff alleges to have been molested. While Defendant did
hire a “Mr. Rico” at Middleton, it was before and after Plaintiff had attended
the school. Plaintiff further is the only person who can identify the perpetrator
as he did not tell anyone about the molestation until he told his wife in 2006.
When shown a photograph of Mr. Rico’s third-grade class, Plaintiff could not
identify any individual as the perpetrator. Thus, based on the foregoing,
Defendant has carried its initial burden. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the absence of records of an employee with
the last name "Rico" does not mean they did not employ someone with
the first, middle, or nickname "Rico." (Opp’n p. 6.) However,
Evidence Code § 1272 provides that the absence of a record of an act,
condition, or event is a trustworthy indication that the act or event did not occur,
or the condition did not exist. (Cal. Evi. Code § 1272 (b).) 
 
Plaintiff
additionally provides his deposition testimony in which he states that “[the
Perpetrator] came out of the school. He took me into his office.” (Plaintiff’s
Depo. p. 52:1-2.) Plaintiff further testified in detail, describing the size
and layout of the Perpetrator's office. (Id. p. 54:1-12.) In
response, Defendant notes that the statement is speculative because the
plaintiff stated, “I’m guessing.” However, context is key here as Plaintiff
testified that. “It was about the size of this room, I'm guessing. And
his desk was up to a wall, just a regular sized desk, standard, I guess.” (Id.
p. 54:1-4.) This would not be speculative because Plaintiff is describing
the room as he could recall it and giving a comparison of the size of the room
to the room in which the deposition was taken. Regardless, this shows a triable
issue of fact because a jury could likely conclude that the Perpetrator was an
employee of LAUSD because he had an office in Middleton. Thus, based on this
deposition testimony, Plaintiff has shown a triable issue of fact still exists.

 
C.     Summary
Adjudication
 
The
Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication for the reasons
discussed in Part B of the Court’s Order. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Accordingly, Defendant
LAUSD’s Motion for Summary Judgment and in the alternative Summary Adjudication
is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.