 Case Number:  23LBCV00050    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



DUK HA KIM,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
DAVID QUACKENBUSH, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23LBCV00050
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFAS
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
November 30, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, David Quackenbush
Responding Party:       Plaintiff, Duk Ha Kim
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Duk Ha Kim filed this
action against Defendant, David Quackenbush to recover for injuries sustained
when Plaintiff fell off a ladder at Defendant’s property.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RFAs
a.    
Basis for Motion
Defendant propounded RFAs on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff responded by asserting various objections
and then indicating he could neither admit nor deny the RFAs because litigation
is in its nascent stages.  Defendant attempted
to meet and confer, and Plaintiff did not supplement the responses.  Defendant therefore moves to compel further
responses to the RFAs and seeks imposition of sanctions.  
 
b.     Guardian
Ad Litem Issue
Plaintiff argues he is not capable
of litigating the action without a guardian ad litem because he suffered a
brain injury when he fell off the ladder and has been in an assisted full time brain
injury program for over the past year.  He
therefore contends his responses, which state he can neither admit nor deny the
RFAs, are proper, as he cannot do so unless and until a GAL is appointed.
 
As Defendant correctly notes in
reply, Plaintiff has taken no steps to have a GAL appointed.  On the contrary, Defendant filed an
application to have a GAL appointed for Plaintiff on 9/07/23, and the application
was rejected with instructions to file a noticed motion.  Defendant did so on 10/25/23, and the motion
is set for hearing on 1/18/24.  
 
c.     Analysis
re: Sufficiency of Responses
Plaintiff argues his responses are
code-compliant because CCP §2033.220(b) requires responses to RFAs to specify
so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the
responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.  He contends that, because of his TBI, he
lacks sufficient information or knowledge to respond to any of the outstanding
RFAs.  
 
The Court tends to agree that, to
the extent Plaintiff is not capable of acting on his own behalf, the responses
are code-compliant.  The problem is that,
as Defendant correctly notes, Plaintiff has taken no steps to have a GAL
appointed.  Plaintiff states, in opposition
to the motion, that he is “in the process” of having his mother appointed as
his GAL.  The Court’s docket, however,
reveals that no application has been filed. 
Additionally, Plaintiff suggests, at page 4, lines 9-11, that this issue
should be tabled because Defendant’s motion to have a GAL appointed is
scheduled for hearing in January.  
 
Having the opposing party file a
motion to have a GAL appointed is a highly unorthodox practice.  The Court wishes to have Plaintiff, through
his mother if necessary, file any papers required to have a GAL appointed.  Plaintiff must do so forthwith.  Once a GAL is appointed, the parties must
meet and confer concerning further responses to the RFAs.  
 
d.     Sanctions

The more difficult issue is whether
sanctions should be imposed.  As noted
above, it appears the responses are technically code-compliant, as Plaintiff,
personally, cannot further respond due to his condition.  This fact, however, is of Plaintiff’s own
making.  Plaintiff should have had a GAL appointed
at the outset of litigation, in which case full and complete responses to RFAs
could have been provided.  
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff indicates
there has been a delay in seeking appointment of a GAL because Plaintiff’s
level of incompetence is being evaluated, because his mother’s first language
is not English, and because the attorney responsible for the day-to-day
handling of the case recently left the firm. 
With respect to “level of incompetence,” the issue is confused because
Plaintiff then says that he has been in a full-time assisted living brain
injury program for over the past year, which tends to indicate his condition is
of sufficient severity to make clear that, since prior to filing this lawsuit
in January of 2023, he has needed a GAL to assist him in litigating his
claims.  With respect to his mother’s
first language, this is the role attorneys should be playing in assisting
Plaintiff with his case.  With respect to
the attorney who left the firm, no details are provided; additionally, while
this could explain a brief delay, it does not explain why no GAL has been
appointed since this action was filed in January of 2023, and does not explain
why, even after Defendant filed a motion to have a GAL appointed, Plaintiff continued
to fail to file the necessary application to have the matter handled
expediently.  
 
e.     Continuance
On balance, the Court is inclined
to continue the matter, including the request for sanctions, to Thursday,
1/18/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27. 
This is the same date and time the hearing on Defendant’s motion to
appoint GAL is scheduled.  The Court is
hopeful Plaintiff will have a GAL appointed prior to the continued motion
hearing date and, again, the parties must meet and confer concerning further
responses to the RFAs once the GAL is appointed.  
 
If issues remain unresolved, the
Court requires the parties to file a joint statement of items in dispute at
least two weeks prior to the hearing.  The
joint statement must include each RFA that remains in dispute, the most recent
response to each RFA in dispute, and each party’s statement of why a further
response is or is not necessary.  If sanctions
are sought, they must be briefed in the same format.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 
DATED:  November 30, 2023                 _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 