 Case Number:  23LBCV01222    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



TATTYANNA FRESCAS,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
WENDY DOE, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23LBCV01222
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER
  TO COMPLAINT
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
November 30, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, Far West Restaurant Group, LLC
Opposing Party:           None filed
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Tattyanna Frescas filed this action against Defendants,
Wendy Doe and Far West Restaurant Group, LLC for assault, battery, and related
claims arising out of an incident that occurred outside of the entity defendant’s
restaurant.  Plaintiff alleges she
ordered pick-up from the restaurant and was involved in an automobile accident outside
of the restaurant, which resulted in a verbal altercation.  Plaintiff alleges the persons who attacked
her were restaurant employees, and that they attacked her because of a friendship
or other personal relationship with the members of the car with which Plaintiff
had the collision.    
 
The assault, battery, IIED, negligence, negligent hiring, supervision,
and retention, and negligence – vicarious liability causes of action are all
pled against Demurring Defendant, Far West. 

2.     Demurrer

3.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated
exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause
of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts
as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special
demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
attorneys met and conferred over the phone but were unable to come to agreement
concerning the issues presented on demurrer. 
The meet and confer requirement is therefore satisfied.  
 
c.     Initial
Note re: Opposition 
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 11/15/23 in light of the Thanksgiving holiday.  CCP §1005(b). 
The Court has not received timely opposition to the demurrer, and will
not consider late-filed opposition.  In the
future, if Plaintiff does not intend to oppose a matter, the Court asks
Plaintiff to meet and confer in good faith to resolve all issues without the
need for a hearing.
 
d.     Analysis
Defendant establishes that respondent
superior liability for a tort committed by an employee does not attach unless
the tort was in some way connected to the employee’s duties on the job.  See Carr v. Wm. Co. Crowell Co. (1946) 28
Cal.2d 652, 654.  Notably, while not
cited in the moving papers, the modern test is whether the act was either required
by the employee or incidental to the employee’s duties, OR whether the employee’s
misconduct was reasonably foreseeable by the employer, even if not required or incidental.  Crouch v. Trinity Christian Ctr. of Santa Ana,
Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1015.  
 
In this case, Plaintiff alleges, at
¶7 of her complaint, that Wendy Doe came out of Far West with another employee[1], Wendy
Doe screamed “that’s my man” in reference to the person with whom Plaintiff had
the collision, and then both women began repeatedly punching and kicking
Plaintiff, pulling her hair, spilling sodas on her, and stealing $400 from
her.  
 
This appears to constitute an admission
that the acts that form the basis of the lawsuit were not required by or incidental
to employment duties, and were not reasonably foreseeable to the employer.  Because each and every cause of action against
Far West is based on Wendy Doe and the other employee’s conduct, the demurrer
is sustained in its entirety.  
 
e.     Leave
to Amend
It is not up to the Court to figure
out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of action.  Rather, the burden is on the plaintiff to
show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how that amendment
will change the legal effect of the pleading. 
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.
A plaintiff may not amend as a
matter of right, and in order to be in a position to complain upon appeal of an
abuse of discretion in sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend, he must
ask permission to amend, unless it is made to appear that he had no opportunity
to ask such permission.  Williams v.
Hinckley (1930) 109 Cal.App. 574, 576.
 
In light of the lack of opposition,
the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
4.     Case
Management Conference and OSC re: Proof of Service
There is a CMC and OSC re: proof of
service on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer today.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, OSC, and CMC. 
 
DATED:  November 30, 2023                 _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 


