  Case Number:  20STCV43795    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



ANTONIO CALDERON, ET AL.,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON
  COMPANY, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 20STCV43795
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RPDS
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
November 30, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Plaintiffs, Antonio Calderon, et
al.
Responding Party:       Defendant, SCE
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Antonio Calderon, Ana
Canchola, and Frank G. Martinez filed this action against Defendant, SCE for
damages arising out of an electrical explosion and fire in an underground
high-voltage vault.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RPDs
a.    
History of Discovery Dispute
Plaintiffs allege the explosion at
issue in this lawsuit was caused by deliberate and willful improper
construction and maintenance of the subject circuit that exploded.  In response to FROGs, SCE indicated that Hampton
Tedder Electric opted not to replace the deadbreak elbows when given the opportunity
to do so.  When asked what documents
support this contention, it responded, “Purchase Order No. 4501045265, Master
Services Agreement, and associated documents.” 

 
Upon receipt of the foregoing,
Plaintiffs propounded SROGs, including SROGs 103 and 104, which are at issue on
this motion.  SROG 103 asks:
If YOU contend that Purchase Order
No. 451045265 allowed Hampton Tedder Electric to opt ‘not to replace the
deadbreak elbows when given the opportunity,’ please IDENTIFY every clause of
the Purchase Order supporting YOUR contention. 

 
SROG 104 asks: 
If YOU contend that the Master
Services Agreement allowed Hampton Tedder Electric to opt ‘not to replace the
deadbreak elbows when given the opportunity,” please IDENTIFY every clause of
the Master Services Agreement supporting YOUR contention.
 
SCE’s responses to each SROG were substantially
the same, replacing only “Purchase Order No. 451045265” with “Master Services Agreement”
between 103 and 104.  SCE responded:  
Objection. Calls for a legal
determination. Without waiving said objection, and subject thereto, responding
party responds as follows: Purchase Order No. 451045265 is one document of a
legal universe of documents; rules; regulations; industry practices; contracts
and terms and conditions thereto; contractor orientations; manuals and
handbooks bound to contractor's performance of the work via contractor
orientations; Red Book professional standards for qualified electrical workers;
OSHA rules and regulations; CPUC rules, regulations, and orders; safety manuals
of SCE and Hampton Tedder (which adheres to Fed Osha, Cal Osha, Red Book and
any and all SCE specific requirements identified in ISN and has adopted SCE’s
APM Manual); and the work actually performed pursuant to the purchase order,
all of which taken together clearly demonstrates that while performing its work
in the subject vault, SCE's contractor, Hampton Tedder, and its employees, had
the opportunity to evaluate all electrical components in the subject vault for repair,
maintenance, upgrade, and safety and to perform associated work as part of this
project –it regularly did so, using "B" materials and billed Edison
accordingly, including on this job relative to deadbreak elbows on one circuit
but not other deadbreak elbows or other components until the Hampton Tedder
crew who finished the job did so later on the day of plaintiffs' accident.
 
The parties met and conferred, but
were unable to resolve issues.  This motion
follows.  
 
b.     Analysis
re: Sufficiency of Responses
CCP §2030.220(a) requires answers
to interrogatories to be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  SCE, in opposition to the motion, argues its
responses meet this standard because, “There is simply not a specific clause in
either the Purchase Order…or the Master Services Agreement between SCE and
Hampton that speaks to the specific act of ‘replacing the deadbreak elbow.’”  It contends these documents are broad, but,
when read together, they are relevant because they help to define the scope of
the duties Hampton had on the subject property, especially when read in conjunction
with numerous other documents.  
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, correctly
note that Defendant should have simply indicated, in its sworn discovery
responses, that there is no specific clause in either document that supports
their assertions.  The motion to compel a
further response is granted.  The responses
are not as complete and straightforward as the Code requires.  
 
c.     Sanctions
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in connection
with the motion.  Plaintiffs argue the
responses were not made in good faith, and argue SCE’s conduct in connection with
other discovery matters in this case shows an ongoing pattern of
obstruction.  Defendant, in opposition to
the request, argues its responses were made in good faith, and also argues
Plaintiffs’ attempt to meet and confer prior to filing the motion was insufficient.  
 
The threshold issue is whether the
meet and confer attempts were sufficient, as the Court will not impose sanctions
absent such efforts.  
 
On 8/07/23, Plaintiffs’ attorney,
Joseph Brent, emailed Defense Counsel, Amelia S. McDonald, with detailed meet
and confer arguments re: SROGs 103 and 104. 
The letter concluded, “We are therefore asking you to provide verified,
code complaint responses by the close of business on August 11.”  Brent declares SCE did not respond to the
letter.  Plaintiffs filed the motion on
8/14/23.  
 
In opposition to the motion,
Defense Counsel, McDonald, declares she and Plaintiffs’ co-counsel, Lynn P.
Whitlock, had been meeting and conferring during August, and on 8/04/23, McDonald
received detailed correspondence from Whitlock concerning all discovery issues,
and SROGs 103 and 104 were not mentioned. 
She declares she and Whitlock were meeting and conferring and CCing
Brent on all communication during the subject period.  She declares she was out of the office “during
the time when Mr. Brent filed the motion,” as she was visiting colleges with
her daughter.  
 
Notably absent from the opposition
is any copy of the meet and confer correspondence with Whitlock for the Court
to review.  Additionally, in reply, Brent
provides a copy of a 9/15/23 letter from Whitlock to McDonald wherein Whitlock
indicates she is confirming that McDonald represented she would be providing
further responses to SROGs 103 and 104. 
This correspondence happened after the motion was filed, but two months
before SCE filed opposition to the motion. 

 
While additional attempts to meet
and confer are always possible, the Court finds the attempts were
sufficient.  
 
The second issue is whether SCE
made its responses in good faith and with substantial justification, such that
sanctions should not be imposed.  In light
of the correspondence showing SCE agreed to supplement its responses but failed
to do so, the Court cannot make this conclusion.  The Court finds sanctions are appropriate.  The motion was made necessary by SCE’s
refusal to supplement its responses, despite its agreement to do so.  Notably, Plaintiffs seek sanctions in the very
low amount of $627.66, which represents one hour of their attorney’s time plus associated
costs.  The request is granted in full.
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against SCE only and not against its attorney of record.  SCE is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs,
by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of $627.66, within
twenty days.    
 
3.     Final
Note
The Court notes that the parties
have an additional discovery motion scheduled for 2/22/24.  The Court asks the parties to continue to
work together in good faith in an attempt to resolve the issues related to the
2/22/24 motion without the need for a hearing if at all possible.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 
DATED:  November 30, 2023                 _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 