 Case Number:  22LBCV00355    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



CHELSEY BINZ,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
LONG BEACH MEMORIAL MEDICAL
  CENTER, ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22LBCV00355
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
November 30, 2023



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, Reza Askari, M.D.
Opposing Party:           Plaintiff, Chelsey Binz  
Notice:                         OK
 
1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Chelsey
Binz filed this action against Defendants, LBMMC, et al. for damages arising
out of complications that arose during her labor and delivery.  The complications ultimately caused damage to
her child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever.   
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint includes causes of action for medical negligence, corporate hospital
liability, concealment, and NIED.  The
first and fourth causes of action are pled against Defendant, Dr. Askari.
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
3.     Standard
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because
of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff filed objections with her
opposition papers.  Her objections are
overruled.  Defendant filed objections
with his reply papers.  The objections
are overruled.
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendant moves for judgment on the
complaint, contending (a) he is immune from liability pursuant to the Good
Samaritan law, and (b) Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of her claims
for negligence and/or NIED against him.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues (a) Dr. Askari is not a Good Samaritan
under governing law, (b) expert evidence raises a triable issue of material
fact concerning breach of the standard of care and damages, and (c) her claim
for NIED should survive summary judgment. 

 
Defendant, in reply, contends
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning the
applicability of the Good Samaritan law and/or standard of care/causation.  
 

Good Samaritan Immunity

The Court heard Drs. Okuyemi and
Milone’s summary judgment motion on 9/12/23. 
The Court held that they were entitled to judgment as a matter of law
because they acted merely as Good Samaritans in assisting with the emergency delivery
of Plaintiff’s child.  The Court found they
were not Plaintiff’s regular physician, but instead were called to the scene
due to the emergency that was developing in connection with the birth.  On 11/28/23, the Court heard and denied
Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial on the issue, again finding the defense
applied and provided full immunity.
 
Similarly, Dr. Askari provides
evidence that he was not Plaintiff’s treating physician, and was called to aid
in treating Plaintiff because an emergency was developing.  Specifically, facts 1-42 in the separate statement
detail the events that unfolded and that required Dr. Askari’s assistance, and
fact 43 establishes that Dr. Askari had no prior relationship with
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff, in opposition to
fact 43, provides evidence that Dr. Askari was a hospitalist/laborist on duty,
and it was part of his job description to respond to emergency situations in
the event the regular physician was not available.  She contends this is sufficient to defeat
application of the Good Samaritan rule.  
 
The Court has
reviewed Burciaga v. St. John’s Hospital (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 710, 716.  Both parties argue Burciaga supports their
position.  Notably, this was the primary
case upon which Defendants relied in their original motion.  The Court has reviewed Burciaga a second time
in drafting this ruling.  The Burciaga
Court held, as is relevant to this motion, “The heart of the application of the
Good Samaritan statutes is the inquiry whether a duty of professional care
pre-existed the emergency. (Comment, Good Samaritans and Hospital Emergencies
(1981) 54 So.Cal.L.Rev. 417, 418.) Gibson's declaration provides a reasonable
inference that he did not have an existing duty to treat William and that he
acted as a volunteer. William was not Gibson's patient and Taft did not
customarily refer patients to him. Gibson was present in the hospital only
because he was treating his own hospitalized patients. He cancelled his office
appointments for the day in order to treat William. That a medical emergency
fortuitously occurred while he was in the hospital creates no duty to
plaintiff. There was no evidence that Gibson was employed by the hospital, and
it is not a reasonable inference that because he was an active staff member,
the hospital had designated him to treat newborns in the event of an emergency.”
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to defeat application of the Good Samaritan
defense.  Whereas in Burciaga the
defendant doctor was only in the hospital because he was treating his own
patients, which he canceled in order to attend to the unfolding emergency, in
the instant case Dr. Askari was assigned to treat patients in emergency
situations such as the one Plaintiff experienced.  The Burciaga Court noted the lack of evidence
that the hospital had designated the defendant doctor to handle the types of emergencies
that arose on the date in question; in this case, however, Plaintiff provides evidence
that this was exactly Dr. Askari’s assigned job.  The motion for summary judgment on the ground
that the Good Samaritan rule provides a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims
is therefore denied.
 

Breach
     of Standard of Care and Causation

Defendant provides
evidence, by way of the Declaration of Stephen V. DiMarzo, M.D., that he
complied with the standard of care and that nothing he did caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s damages.  This
is sufficient to meet the moving burden on summary judgment, and the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  
 
Plaintiff does so
by way of the Declaration of Howard C. Mandel, M.D.  Defendant, in reply, argues Dr. Mandel’s opinion
is not well-reasoned and should be disregarded. 
The Court cannot, at the summary judgment stage, weigh the evidence or
determine the strength of Dr. Mandel’s opinions.  The Court has reviewed the declaration, and
finds it is sufficient, at the summary judgment stage, to raise triable issues
of material fact.
 

Conclusion

Plaintiff raised triable issues of material
fact concerning application of the Good Samaritan defense and also concerning breach
of the standard of care and causation.  The
motion for summary judgment is therefore denied.  
 
Moving Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 
Dated this 30th
day of November, 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Mark
  Kim
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
 