 Case Number:  23PSCV02609    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  H John
J.G. Doe v. Rowland Unified School District, Case No. 23PSCV02609ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL
 1.       Plaintiff John J.G. Doe’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
is GRANTED in part (i.e., as to Nos. 23-28, 30-38, 41, 43-52, 54-56, 58-66,
68-84, 87-89 and 91) and DENIED in part (i.e., as to Nos. 53, 67, 86 and 95).
Rowland Unified School District is ordered to provide further, Code-compliant
responses and responsive documents within 20 calendar days from the date of the
notice of ruling.
2.
      Plaintiff John J.G. Doe’s Motion to
Compel the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to Fully Comply with a
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records is DENIED.
 

I.        Background 
 
Plaintiff J.G. Doe, by and through his
guardian ad litem, Mary Galindo (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Plaintiff was
sexually assaulted and harassed from approximately 2017 to 2018, when he was 7
and 8 years old, by Jose Cruz Martinez (“Martinez”), a teacher at Rowland
Unified School District (“RUSD”). On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting causes of action against RUSD and Does 1-20 for (1) negligence
and (2) public entity liability for failure to report mandatory duty.
 
Pending before the Court are two
discovery motions filed by Plaintiff. First, Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling RUSD to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s request for
production of documents. Second, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling the Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (“LASD”) to produce unredacted incident
reports and investigative materials relating to their investigation into Martinez.
Before filing a motion to compel further responses from RUSD, the parties met
and conferred regarding the disputed issues. (Jimenez Decl. ¶¶ 5-9.) 
 
For
the reasons stated herein, the Court (1) grants in part and denies in part the
motion seeking further responses from RUSD and (2) denies the motion seeking
unredacted materials from LASD.


 
II.      Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses Re: Document Production from RUSD
 
A.       Legal Standard 
“[T]he
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that. . . (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete[,] (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive [and/or that] (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).) 
The motion must include a meet and confer
declaration which “state[s] facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) “In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).)
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents must “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
If the moving party has shown good cause for the production of documents, the
burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
B.       Discussion 
Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order compelling RUSD to provide further verified
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set No. One
(i.e., Nos. 23-28, 30-38, 41, 43-56, 58-84, 86-89, 91 and 95). 
At
the outset, RUSD has advised in its opposition that it has withdrawn its
objections to Nos. 23-28 and will produce responsive documents in its custody
and control; accordingly, the motion is summarily granted as to these requests.
The Court also notes that Plaintiff’s moving separate statement does not
mention No. 95, in contravention of California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345. The
Court thus summarily denies the motion as to this request. Further, Request No.
86 (i.e., “All COMMUNICATIONS between RUSD and law enforcement, MARTINEZ”) is
unintelligible and thus summarily denied. The requests remaining at issue are
Nos. 30-38, 41, 43-56, 58-84, 87-89, and 91. 
The
Court agrees that Nos. 30 and 31 (i.e., “All DOCUMENTS IDENTIFYING each
employee at [Rorimer Elementary School from 2011 to 2013/Rowland Elementary
School from 2013 to 2018])” are overbroad as phrased. That said, “[a] party may
not deliberately misconstrue a question for the purpose of supplying an evasive
answer”; “where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but the nature of the
information sought is apparent, the proper solution if to provide an
appropriate response.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
783.) RUSD has now agreed to produce staff directories, or their equivalent,
for the time period and location specified in the requests. (Opp. Sep. State.,
3:2-3.) The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 30 and 31, limited to the
production set forth above. 
The
Court does not believe that Nos. 32, 33, 43 and 44 (i.e., documents related to
any complaints and/or allegations of sexual misconduct lodged by any parents or
students to RUSD administrators, teachers and/or staff concerning Martinez
while Martinez was assigned to Rorimer and Rowland Elementary Schools) are
overbroad by Plaintiff’s use of the term “related to.” The Court agrees,
however, that the foregoing requests violate third-party privacy rights.
Plaintiff asserts that these interests can be adequately protected by entry
into the LASC model stipulated protective order. The Court disagrees. 
A
privacy interest is invaded if there is “a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 [citation omitted].) “Legally recognized privacy interests
are generally of two classes: (1) interests in precluding the dissemination or
misuse of sensitive and confidential information (‘informational privacy’); and
(2) interests in making intimate personal decisions or conducting personal
activities without observation, intrusion, or interference (‘autonomy
privacy’).” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 35.) “A particular class
of information is private when well-established social norms recognize the need
to maximize individual control over its dissemination and use to prevent
unjustified embarrassment or indignity.” (Id.)
Neither
party appears to meaningfully dispute that the above elements are present. 
A
“compelling need” is “required to justify an obvious invasion of an interest
fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Id. at 556 [quotations and citation
omitted].) A “compelling need” can be established by “showing the information
is directly relevant and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Alch
v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1425 [quotations and
citation omitted].)
Plaintiff
has not shown a compelling need for disclosure of the identities and contact
information of non-party, minor victims of sexual abuse and their parents.
Plaintiff asserts that “evidence that RUSD received complaints of the same
misconduct that Martinez committed, either before, during, or after the time of
Plaintiff’s abuse, puts RUSD on notice that Martinez was a potential threat to
the safety of children, including Plaintiff” and “provides evidence that RUSD
was negligent in the oversight of employees.” (Motion, 6:24-27.) However,
it is sufficient for RUSD to produce any responsive documents with the
identities and contact information non-party, minor victims of sexual abuse and
their parents redacted, as Plaintiff will still be able to show that complaints
were made. Moreover, the Court believes that the disclosure of non-party victim
identifying information may cause severe distress to other alleged minor
victims of Martinez and serve to chill the willingness of victims to come
forward and report abuse, knowing that they could potentially be compelled to
participate in civil proceedings at a later time.
The Court grants the motion as to Nos.
32, 33, 43, and 44, but with the names of parents and/or students and
their contact information redacted. 
The
Court agrees that Nos 34-36 (i.e., documents relating to communications Leon
had with Martinez regarding any complaints made against him and documents
related to any meetings and/or interviews that Leon had with any RUSD students
and/or parents as a result of complaints against Martinez) are overbroad as
phrased, but
that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see
analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD
advises that it “has already produced responsive records wherein Principal Leon
memorialized her communications with Jose Cruz Martinez regarding complaints
made against him” (Opp. Sep. State., 4:25-27) and “will also produce Ms.
Leon’s notes from her 2012 inquiry into the complaints” (Id., 5:18-21
[i.e., as to Nos. 35 and 36]); however, it is unclear to the Court whether or
not the foregoing documents are the only responsive documents to these
requests. The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 34-36, but with the
names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the
analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 37 (i.e., documents related to any disciplinary action
taken by Leon against Martinez) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature
of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30
and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive records
wherein Liz Leon initiated and memorialized a disciplinary process against Jose
Cruz Martinez regarding complaints made against him in 2012” (Opp. Sep. State.,
6:5-7); again, however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing
records are the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants
the motion as to No. 37, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court agrees that Nos. 38 and 49 (i.e., documents related to communications
made by Rorimer and/or Rowland Elementary School administrators, teachers
and/or staff to the RUSD District Office regarding Martinez) are overbroad as
phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD
[see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already
produced responsive records regarding complaints made against Jose Cruz
Martinez in 2012 and in 2018 (the year of his arrest, suspension and
termination as an employee) (Opp. Sep. State., 6:24-26); again, however, it is
unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are the only
responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants the motion as to No.
38 and 49, but with the names of parents and students redacted, for the
same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44.
The
Court agrees that Nos. 41 and 51 (i.e., documents related to any Improvement
Plans Martinez was placed on by RUSD district office administrators and/or
Rorimer and/or Rowland Elementary School Administrators) are overbroad as
phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD
[see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD
represents that it “has already produced responsive records regarding
improvements in conduct and knowledge of school policies required of Jose Cruz
Martinez in 2012” as to No. 41 (Opp. Sep. State., 7:16-18); however, it is
unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are the only
responsive documents to these requests. RUSD also represents, as to No. 51,
that it “will amend its response to clarify that there are no responsive
documents as to Rowland Elementary School. . .” (Id., 7:19-20 [emphasis
added].) The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 41 and 51, but with the names
of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the
analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44.
The
Court agrees that No. 45 (i.e., documents related to any communications Rowland
Elementary School administrators had with Martinez regarding any complaint(s)
made against him”) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature of the
information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31].
RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive records wherein the
District communicated with Jose Cruz Martinez regarding complaints made against
him in connection with Rowland Elementary School” (Opp. Sep. State., 8:9-11);
however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are
the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants the motion as
to No. 45, but with the names of parents and students redacted, for the
same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that Nos. 46 and 47 (i.e., documents related to any meetings
and/or interviews that Rowland Elementary School administrators, teachers,
and/or staff had with any RUSD student(s) regarding complaints made against
Martinez and related to meeting and/or interviews the above individuals had
with any RUSD parent(s) as a result of said complaints) are overbroad as
phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD
[see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already
produced responsive records regarding the investigation of complaints made
against Jose Cruz Martinez in 2012 and in 2018” (Opp. Sep. State., 9:2-3);
however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are
the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants the motion as
to Nos. 46 and 47, but with the names of parents and students redacted,
for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 48 (i.e., documents related to any disciplinary action
taken by Rowland Elementary School administrators against Martinez) is
overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was
“apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it
“has already produced responsive disciplinary records” (Opp. Sep. State.,
9:18); however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing records
are the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants the
motion as to No. 48, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 49 (i.e., documents related to any communications made by
Rowland Elementary School administrators, teachers and/or staff to the RUSD
District Office regarding Martinez) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the
nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to
Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive
records, e.g., disciplinary and investigative records regarding complaints
against Jose Cruz Martinez in 2012 and 2018, which are arguably ‘related to’
communications involving school site staff and the District” (Opp. Sep. State.,
10:6-8); however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing
records are the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants
the motion as to No. 49, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court disagrees that No. 50 (i.e., documents related to reports made to Child
Protective Services by Rowland Elementary School administrators, teachers
and/or staff regarding Martinez) is overbroad as phrased. The Court grants the
motion as to No. 50, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 51 (i.e., documents related to any improvement plans
Martinez was placed on by RUSD district office administrators and/or Rowland
Elementary School administrators) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature
of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30
and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive records
regarding improvements in conduct and knowledge of school policies required of
Jose Cruz Martinez in 2012” (Opp. Sep. State., 11:7-8); however, it is unclear
to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are the only responsive
documents to these requests. The Court grants the motion as to No. 51, but
with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth
in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 52 (i.e., documents related to any written reprimands
RUSD issued to Martinez from 2011-2018) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the
nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to
Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive
records constituting a written reprimand for Jose Cruz Martinez in 2012 for
‘unprofessional conduct’” (Opp. Sep. State., 11:21-22); however, it is unclear
to the Court whether or not the foregoing records are the only responsive
documents to these requests. The Court grants the motion as to No. 52, but
with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth
in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court determines that no further response to No. 53 (i.e., seeking all written
student statements prepared by the victims of Martinez) is warranted because,
after interposing objections, RUSD responded that it “cannot comply with this
Request because no such record exists.” Further, Plaintiff’s moving separate
statement does not comply with California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345,
subdivision (c)(3) (i.e., requiring “[a] statement of the factual and legal
reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each
matter in dispute”). 
The
Court agrees that No. 54 (i.e., seeking all handwritten notes taken by any RUSD
employee during the investigation into misconduct of Martinez) is overbroad as
phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD
[see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it “will conduct
another search of its records to ensure that it has produced responsive records
consisting of handwritten notes taken during investigations into Jose Cruz
Martinez” (Opp. Sep. State., 12:17-18 [emphasis added]). The Court grants the
motion as to No. 54, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court disagrees that No. 55 (i.e., documents related to any communication
between RUSD and any RUSD employee related to the incident) is overbroad as
phrased. RUSD complains that the request violates the attorney work-product
doctrine and/or attorney client privilege; if this is the case, then RUSD is
directed to prepare a privilege log in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.240.
The
Court grants the motion as to No. 55, but with the names of parents and
students redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos.
32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court disagrees that No. 56 (i.e., documents related to any communications
between RUSD and Martinez that are related to the complaint) is overbroad as
phrased. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive records,
including Jose Cruz Martinez’ entire personnel file” (Opp. Sep. State.,
14:5-6); however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the foregoing
records are the only responsive documents to these requests. The Court grants
the motion as to No. 56, but with the names of parents and students
redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43,
and 44. 
The
Court disagrees that No. 58 (i.e., documents pertaining to suspected child
abuse reporting procedures at RUSD from 2011 to 2020) is overbroad as phrased.
RUSD represents that it “has already produced some responsive records,
including directions for plaintiff to access responsive and searchable District
policies and procedures, online” and that it “will further search for
responsive, archival records, and produce them if they still exist” (Opp. Sep.
State., 14:26-28 [emphasis added]); as such, the Court grants the motion as to
No. 58. 
The
Court grants the motion as to Nos. 59 and 64 (i.e., seeking all suspected child
abuse reports in RUSD’s possession, filed by employees of RUSD, pertaining to
Martinez and all police reports in RUSD’s possession regarding Martinez),
but with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons
set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court grants the motion as to Nos. 60 and 61 (i.e., seeking all communications
between any RUSD employee and any social services and/or law enforcement agency
regarding suspicions or allegations of sexual misconduct by Martinez ), but
with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth
in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court disagrees that Nos. 62 and 63 (i.e., documents relating to any
investigations of sexual misconduct by a social services agency and/or law
enforcement agency from 2011 to the present regarding Martinez) are overbroad
as phrased. RUSD represents that it “has already produced responsive records .
. . and can produce additional records subject to a protective order.” (Opp.
Sep. State., 16:7-9.) The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 62 and 63, but
with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons set forth
in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that Nos. 65 and 66 (i.e., seeking all RUSD employee training
manuals from 2011 to 2020 and all Rowland Elementary employee handbooks from
2011-2020) are overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature of the information
sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD
represents that it “has produced some records which are arguably responsive”
(Opp. Sep. State., 17:5-9), but takes issue with the breadth of the request.
The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 65 and 66 but limits these requests to
training manuals and handbooks relative to reporting suspected sexual abuse of
minor students.
 
The Court disagrees that No. 67 (i.e.,
documents regarding policies and procedures for conducting background checks of
prospective employees at RUSD, from 2011 to 2020) is overbroad as phrased. The
Court, however, agrees that the request does not appear to be reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, inasmuch as
Martinez was hired in 2003. The Court denies the motion as to No. 67.
With respect to Nos. 68-75 (i.e.,
documents regarding policies and procedures regarding sexual harassment and/or
sexual misconduct and/or prevention of same of a student by an RUSD staff
member at RUSD from 2011 to 2020, and policies and procedures from 2011-2020
relating to the obligations of RUSD employees as mandated reporters, one to one
contact between RUSD employees and students, unsupervised contact between RUSD
employees and students, taking students into a classroom during recess or
lunch, student safety and/or student supervision), RUSD directs Plaintiff to a
public website; however, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the
aforementioned website contains all documents responsive to these requests. The
Court thus grants the motion as to Nos. 68-75.

The Court disagrees that Nos. 76 and
77 (i.e., documents relating to RUSD’s policies and/or code of conduct that
govern employee-to-student sexual misconduct prevention, and related discipline
policy from 2011 to 2020) are overbroad as phrased. While RUSD directs
Plaintiff to a public website, it is unclear to the Court whether or not the
aforementioned website contains all documents responsive to these requests. The
Court thus grants the motion as to Nos. 76 and 77.

With respect to Nos. 78-82 (i.e.,
documents relating to training provided by RUSD to RUSD employees regarding
interactions with minor students, policies and procedures for identifying
sexual misconduct or suspicions thereof, how to report sexual misconduct or
suspicions thereof and/or obligations as a mandated reporter from 2011 to 2020
and videos, recordings, power point videos or other demonstrative documents
RUSD used in training of RUSD employees from 2011 to 2020), RUSD represents
that it “will supplement its prior responses and production” (Opp. Sep.
State., 19:22 [Emphasis added].) The Court grants the motion as to Nos. 78-82. 
The
Court agrees that No. 83 (i.e., documents related to any training and/or policy
bulletins RUSD provided to Martinez at any time) is overbroad as phrased, but
that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see
analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. RUSD represents that it has produced Martinez’s
complete employment file (Opp. Sep. State., 20:1-7), but takes issue with the
breadth of the request. The Court grants the motion as to No. 83 but limits the
request to one-to-one contact with students and/or unsupervised contact with
students.
 
As to No. 84 (i.e., communications,
including any social media reports or documents, related to the sexual
misconduct of Marinez), RUSD represents that “after a diligent search, [it] can
now confirm that it made no ‘social media’ reports or ‘social media’
documents regarding the alleged sexual misconduct by Jose Cruz Martinez, and,
it will supplement its prior response accordingly” (Opp. Sep. State.,
20:13-15 [emphasis added].) The Court grants the motion as to No. 84. 
 
The Court agrees that No. 87 (i.e.,
documents reflecting the meeting minutes or ay meetings of RUSD, including
annual meetings, member meetings, meeting minutes, or any other meetings of
RUSD related to Martinez) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature of the
information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31].
The Court, however, agrees that minutes of matters discussed, and decisions
made, in closed session are confidential and not subject to discovery. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1099, 1106 [“closed
session minutes are not subject to discovery in a civil case”]; see Govt. Code
§ 54957.2.) The Court grants the motion as to No. 87, excepting any closed
session documents as noted above and with the names of parents and students redacted,
for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. 
The
Court agrees that No. 88 (i.e., documents relating to any complaints or
allegations of sexual harassment, sexual misconduct, or inappropriate conduct
received by you concerning any RUSD employee from 2011 to 2022) is overbroad as
phrased, but that “the nature of the information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD
[see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31]. The Court grants the motion as to No. 88
(limited to allegations of sexual harassment and/or sexual misconduct),
but with the names of parents and students redacted, for the same reasons
set forth in the analysis as to Nos. 32, 33, 43, and 44. The Court will also
require redaction of the names of any RUSD employee other than Martinez. 
The
Court disagrees that No. 89 (i.e., seeking ESI exchanged between any RUSD
employee related to Martinez, Plaintiff or the allegations of the complaint) is
overbroad as phrased. RUSD complains that the request violates the attorney
client privilege; if this is the case, then RUSD is directed to prepare a
privilege log in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240. The
Court grants the motion as to No. 89, but with the names of parents and
students redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos.
32, 33, 43, and 44. 
Finally, the Court agrees that No. 91
(i.e., documents relating to any personnel, supervisory or managerial board
meetings held by RUSD that are related to sexual misconduct, including meeting
minutes from 2011-2020) is overbroad as phrased, but that “the nature of the
information sought” was “apparent” to RUSD [see analysis as to Nos. 30 and 31].
The Court, however, agrees that minutes of matters discussed, and decisions
made, in closed session are confidential and not subject to discovery [see
analysis as to No. 87]. The Court grants the motion as to No. 91, excepting any
closed session documents as noted above and with the names of parents and
students redacted, for the same reasons set forth in the analysis as to Nos.
32, 33, 43, and 44.
In
conclusion, the Court grants the motion in part (i.e., as to Nos. 23-28, 30-38,
41, 43-52, 54-56, 58-66, 68-84, 87-89 and 91), subject to any limitations noted
above, and denies the motion in part (i.e., as to Nos. 53, 67, 86 and 95). RUSD
is ordered to provide further, Code-compliant responses and responsive
documents within 20 calendar days from the date of the notice of ruling. 



III.     Motion
to Compel LASD to Comply with Deposition Subpoena
 
A.       Legal Standard
A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena
may be sought under either Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1987.1 or 2025.480. “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).) 
Additionally, “if a deponent fails to answer any question
or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice
or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).) 
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
B.       Discussion
Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order compelling the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department (“LASD”) to comply with the deposition subpoena served upon it on
February 16, 2024 for the production of unredacted incident reports and
investigative materials prepared by LASD detectives during the course and scope
of their investigation into Jose Cruz Martinez (“Martinez”) or the related
criminal investigation (i.e., DR No. 019045531443120).
On
February 16, 2024, the subject subpoena was issued, requesting production of
the following documents:

“Any and all incident reports and investigative materials
concerning or referring to JOSE CRUZ MARTINEZ (D.O.B. 05/03/1964) including but
not limited to, suspected child abuse reports, investigation reports, notes
prepared by any detectives, supplemental reports, witness statements, forensic
test results, photographs, audio, or digital/video recordings, CAD logs, 911
call recordings and transcripts regarding or relating to DR No. 019045531443120
and any subsequent or additional reports or materials.” (Jimenez Decl., ¶ 16,
Exh. A.)
Plaintiff
complains that while documents were produced, they were heavily redacted. LASD,
in turn, represents that the requested reports redacted the full names of other
minor victims but left their first and last initials (as well as ages and
status as RUSD students) because they are not parties to this lawsuit, have not
consented to the disclosure of their names for purposes of this lawsuit, and
have not been served with a notice to consumer.
The
Court agrees that Plaintiff has not shown a compelling need for the identities
and contact information of non-party, minor victims of sexual abuse. Plaintiff
claims that “[t]he evidence sought is highly relevant to Plaintiff’s case as
Plaintiff is seeking civil damages directly related to Defendant’s failure to
protect Plaintiff from the criminal acts that were perpetrated by Martinez and
subsequently investigated by LASD” (Motion, 6:17-19); however, LASD argues that
it “has produced all of its reports that establish the fact that numerous RUSD
students reported Mr. Martinez’s sexual abuse, as well as the details of their
allegations” and that “[b]y leaving in the initials and only redacting the full
named and personal contact information of minor victims who are not parties to
this case, [it] had produced records that balance Plaintiff’s need for
information to prosecute his civil lawsuit with the privacy rights of those
minor victims.” (Opp., 6:22-28.) LASD also correctly points out that “Plaintiff
does not need to identify or depose other minor victims to meet [his burden of
proving that RUSD knew, or should have known, about Mr. Martinez’s conduct and
nevertheless retained him and inadequately supervised him], as the redacted
reports establish that numerous minor victims at RUSD alleged and reported
abuse by Mr. Martinez over a period of years.” (Id., 7:2-26.)
Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 575, does not compel a
contrary result. Indeed, the Lopez court noted that the trial court’s
order “specifically permitted Watchtower to redact names, birth dates, and
Social Security numbers from the documents.” (Id. at 598.)
The
Court denies the motion. 