 Case Number:  24PSCV00253    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  H Anakwenze
v. Villa, et al., Case No. 24PSCV00253


ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
Plaintiff
Henrietta Anakwenze’s unopposed Motion to Compel the Deposition of Yeira
Lisbeth Villa is GRANTED. Villa is ordered to provide Plaintiff forthwith with
three dates Villa is available for deposition within the twenty-day period from
the date of the notice of ruling. Sanctions are imposed in the reduced amount
of $760.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of
ruling.


 

Background
Plaintiff
Henrietta E. Anakwenze (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she sustained injuries and
damages in a January 20, 2022 motor vehicle accident.
On
August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (the “Operative
Complaint”), asserting a motor vehicle cause of action against Yeira Lisbeth
Villa (“Villa”), Cuberto Munoz (together, “Defendants”), and Does 1-10.
A
Case Management Conference is set for October 30, 2024. Pending before the
Court is Plaintiff’s motion to compel Villa’s deposition.


 
Legal Standard
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection . . ., fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
A
motion to compel deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)
A
court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to compel is granted,
“unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order compelling Villa to submit to deposition.
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Villa and her attorneys of record in the
amount of $3,060.00.
Plaintiff’s
counsel Emmanuel C. Akudinobi (“Akudinobi”) represents as follows:
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff served Villa with a “Notice of
Deposition,” wherein Villa’s deposition was scheduled for July 2, 2024.
(Akudinobi Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On June 27, 2024, Villa served an objection
thereto, advising that she was not available for her deposition at the date and
time scheduled and requesting that Plaintiff’s counsel confer regarding a
mutually agreeable deposition date, time and location. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh.
B.) Akudinobi subsequently reached out to coordinate a time for Villa’s
deposition; however, Villa’s counsel has taken the position that Villa will be
made available “[o]nce the pleadings are in final form and [Villa] formally
appears in the case.” (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. D.)
Villa’s
position is not well taken. “The plaintiff may serve a deposition notice
without leave of court on any date that is 20 days after the service of the
summons on, or appearance by, any defendant . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.210, subd. (b).) Court records reflect that Villa was personally served
with the summons and complaint on May 17, 2024.
Villa,
in opposition, also asserts that any deposition is “premature” because the case
will “more likely than not” be dismissed after her demurrer to the Operative
Complaint is heard. (Opp., 2:19-21.) The Court declines to surmise what the
outcome of that future hearing will be; regardless, it does not appear to the
Court that Villa submitting to a deposition (which does not involve the
concurrent production of any documents) under the factual scenario presented
here would constitute an “unnecessary and burdensome additional expense” as
contemplated in Villa’s cited case of Terminals Equipment Co. v. City and
County of San Francisco (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 234, 247.
The
motion is granted. Villa is ordered to
provide Plaintiff forthwith with three dates Villa is available for deposition
within the twenty-day period from the date of the notice of ruling.
Turning to Plaintiff’s request for sanctions, Plaintiffs
seeks sanctions against Villa and her
attorneys of record in the amount of $3,600.00 [calculated as follows: 6
hours preparing motion and reply and appearing for the hearing at $500.00/hour,
plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court
finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is
$760.00 (i.e., 2 hours attorney time at $350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).
Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.