  Case Number:  23PSCV02530    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  H Chavez  v. Red Robin International, Inc., et al., Case No. 23PSCV02530   ORDER ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL  Defendant  Red Robin International, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Production of Business Records  from Nonparty DiMarco, Araujo, Montevideo is DENIED. Sanctions are imposed  against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel only, jointly and severally, in the  reduced amount of $1,050.00 and are payable within 30 days from the date of the  notice of ruling. The DiMarco Law Firm’s request for sanctions is denied.  Background    Plaintiff Carolina E. Chavez  (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she sustained injuries in an October 8, 2021 slip  and fall while at a restaurant. On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a  complaint, asserting negligence and premises liability causes of action against  Red Robin International, Inc. (“Red Robin”), Red Robin Gourmet Burgers, Inc.,  and Does 1-100.   On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed  an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Alfred Esparza was named in lieu of Doe  81.   A Case Management Conference is set  for October 3, 2024. Pending before the Court is Red Robin’s motion to compel  the production of business records from nonparty law firm DiMarco, Araujo &  Montevideo.    Legal  Standard A  motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena may be sought under  either Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1987.1 or 2025.480. “If  a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,  documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,  or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the  court, upon motion reasonably made by” a party to the lawsuit “may make an  order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance  with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including  protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be  appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,  including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a), (b).)  Additionally, “if a deponent fails to answer any question  or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice  or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an  order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,  subd. (a).)  “A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion  to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a  document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served  on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service  by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address  specified on the deposition record.” (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1346.)  Discussion  Red  Robin International, Inc. (“Red Robin”) moves the Court for an order compelling  DiMarco, Araujo, Montevideo (the “DiMarco Law Firm”) to produce documents  responsive to a deposition subpoena directed to the firm. Red Robin seeks  sanctions against Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s counsel, and the DiMarco Law Firm in  the amount of $11,567.00.  Red  Robin’s counsel David A. Napper (“Napper”) represents as follows: On or about June 13, 2024, Red Robin served the subject  deposition subpoena to non-party DiMarco Law Firm. (Napper Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.)  On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection thereto. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh.  3.) On June 24, 2024, Napper advised Plaintiff’s counsel that Red Robin was  seeking the production of documents containing non-privileged information only.  (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. 4.) Napper did not receive any production or objection from the  DiMarco Law Firm. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. 5.)   Napper’s subsequent efforts to meet and confer with the DiMarco Law Firm  have been unsuccessful. (Id., ¶¶ 7-12, Exhs. 5-9).  The  subject subpoena requests the following documentation: “Documents containing  non-privileged information related to your prior representation of Carolina E.  Chavez and an alleged October 8, 2021 injury event (the “event”) involving Ms.  Chavez including, but not limited to, call notes reflecting when Ms. Chavez  contacted DiMarco, Araujo, Montevideo regarding the alleged event.” (Id.,  ¶ 4, Exh. 2.)  Red  Robin believes, based on a written witness statement provided by a Red Robin  team member, that Plaintiff did not immediately request emergency medical  services following the alleged slip and fall on October 8, 2021, but first  engaged in a telephone conversation with a legal professional while she was in  the dining area of the restaurant. (Napper Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Red Robin  became aware that the DiMarco Law Firm previously represented Plaintiff based  on records Plaintiff produced in this action, specifically a treatment record  identifying “John Montevideo” as an attorney and a statement that the treater  had “received a drop letter” from Plaintiff’s previous handling firm. (Id.,  ¶ 3, Exh. 10.) Red  Robin notes that “the attorney-client privilege [does not] protect independent  facts related to a communication; that a communication took place, and the  time, date and participants in the communication.” (State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625, 640.) Red Robin  further asserts that the substance of any telephonic communication Plaintiff  may have had with the DiMarco Law Firm on October 8, 2021 while in the dining  area of the restaurant would not be protected by the attorney-client privilege.  (Samuels v. Mix (1999) 22 Cal.4th 1, 20, fn. 5 [“a plaintiff who exposes  any significant part of a communication in making his own case waives the  privilege with respect to the communication’s contents bearing on discovery, as  well. (Evid. Code, § 912, subd. (a)].) Attorney  Christopher Lee now represents that Plaintiff first contacted the DiMarco Law  Firm on November 1, 2021, weeks after the incident. (Lee Decl., ¶ 2.) It is  unclear to the Court why this information could not have been provided months  earlier to counsel for Red Robin, as it would have obviated the filing of the  instant motion. Plaintiff’s counsel Connie Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) indicated in  a July 17, 2024 email that she would “reach out to [Plaintiff] to ask for  authority in allowing her former attorney(s) at the [DiMarco Law Firm] to  release information pertaining only to the date in which she met with  the [DiMarco Law Firm]” (Napper Decl., ¶ 10, Exh. 8 [emphasis in original]);  however, Plaintiff only gave such permission on August 14, 2024, after  the instant motion was already filed. (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ 5.) The  motion is denied on this basis; however, the Court will award sanctions under  the circumstances. The Court is inclined to impose sanctions against Plaintiff  and Plaintiff’s counsel of record only, inasmuch as the DiMarco Law Firm  appears to have been following Plaintiff’s counsel’s instruction. Red  Robin seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s counsel, and the  DiMarco Law Firm in the amount of $11,567.00 [calculated as follows: 28.1 hours  expended “from commencement of conferral efforts through the filing of this  Motion.” No other information is provided.]. This equates to an hourly  rate of $411.64. Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality  of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of  attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with  the pending motion is $1,050.00 [i.e., 2 hours preparing motion and meeting/conferring,  plus 1 hour appearance time at $350.00/hour]. Sanctions are imposed against  Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel only, jointly and severally, and are payable  within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling. The DiMarco Law Firm’s request for sanctions is denied.