 Case Number:  23AHCV00927    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NATALIE MARIE DIAZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
STATE OF
   CALIFORNIA, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00927
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT FILED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ACTING BY AND THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   25, 2023



 
On April 26,
 2023, Plaintiff Natalie Marie Diaz filed this action against the
People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation (“DOT”), Danielle Brittany Vafa (“Vafa”), the County of Los
Angeles and the City of Monrovia.  The
action arises from a motor vehicle collision that occurred on July 7, 2022.  DOT filed an answer on June 5, 2023, and seeks
leave to file a cross-complaint against Vafa. 

A party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §
428.50 (a).)  Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 428.50 (b).)  A party shall obtain leave of court to file
any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision
(a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 428.50 (c).)  Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out
of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to
file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 426.50.)
DOT argues that leave to file a
cross-complaint should be granted because the failure to do so was
inadvertent.  Furthermore, the proposed
cross-complaint for indemnity is compulsory because it arises from the same
motor vehicle collision as Plaintiff’s claim. 
Therefore, as long as DOT is acting in good faith, the Court must grant
the motion. 
Vafa opposes the motion on the grounds
that she has already settled with Plaintiff for the full policy limits of her
parent’s automobile insurance policy in the amount of $500,000 and has no
assets beyond the policy limits to indemnify DOT.  (Opp., pp. 1-2.) 
However, as DOT points out on reply,
this argument does not show that DOT is acting in bad faith.  (Reply, pp. 2-3.)  “Bad faith” is defined as “dishonest purpose,
moral obliquity, sinister motive, furtive design or ill will.”  (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 100.) 
Accordingly, DOT’s Motion is GRANTED
and DOT is ordered to file the proposed cross-complaint within 5 days of the
date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 25th
day of September
2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 