  Case Number:  22STCV13792    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROSEVIANNEY C. OGUMSI, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
   DALE GENTILE, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV13792
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO FORM
   INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO); MOTION TO DEEM ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   25, 2023



 
This is a medical malpractice
action that was filed on April 26, 2022. 
Defendant Heydar Shahrokh, D.D.S. and Heydar Shahrokh, D.D.S., Inc. dba
Comfort Dental Center (collectively, “Defendants”) move for orders: (1)
compelling Plaintiff Rosevianney C. Ogumsi (“Plaintiff”) to serve responses to
Form Interrogatories (Set Two) and (2) deeming the truth of the matters in
Requests for Admission (Set Two) admitted. 
Defendants also request the Court impose monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff is currently self-represented.
Compel Responses
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.)  
Plaintiff did not oppose Defendants’
motion and it is undisputed that Plaintiff failed to serve responses to
Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set Two), which were served on April 24, 2023.
 Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
compel responses is GRANTED.  Plaintiff
is ordered to serve verified responses, without objections, to Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories (Set Two) within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
Deem Admitted
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The court
shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff did not oppose this motion
and it does not appear that she has served substantially compliant responses
before the date of this hearing. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED. 
Monetary Sanctions
Where the court grants a motion to
compel responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)  Where a party fails to provide a
timely response to requests for admission, the court must impose mandatory
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Defendants’ request for sanctions in
the amount of $2,235 for each motion is excessive.  The Court therefore GRANTS Defendants’
request for sanctions and imposes sanctions on Plaintiff in the reduced overall
amount of $870, consisting of 2 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $375
and $120 in filing fees.  
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 25th
 day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 