 Case Number:  23AHCV01308    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
NORTH
   AMERICAN DIVISION OF SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISTS, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01308
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   25, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 8, 2023, plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action to recover damages arising from childhood sexual
assault. Plaintiff alleges that defendant Jacinto Godinez (“Godinez”) committed
acts of sexual assault against her while she was a minor and member of the church
and church-related programs operated by defendants North American Division of
Seventh-day Adventists (“NAD”), Southern California Conference of Seventh-Day
Adventists (“Conference”), All Nations Seventh-Day Adventist Church (“All
Nations Church”) (collectively, the “Entity Defendants”). (Compl., ¶ 2.)
Godinez is alleged to have been employed by the Entity Defendants at these
programs. (Compl., ¶ 2.)  
Plaintiff alleges that NAD is a
religious non-profit corporation incorporated in Maryland which purposefully
conducts substantial religious and affiliated programs and activities in the
State of California and County of Los Angeles. (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff further
alleges that during the period of childhood sexual assault, NAD supervised and
exercised control over Godinez, finalized and confirmed the appointments of
pastors and ministers (including Godinez) and formulated administrative and organizational
policies in Maryland which were followed by Conference and All Nations Church
and other church-sponsored/affiliated programs and activities. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-9.)

On
August 25, 2023, NAD filed this motion to quash service of summons and dismiss
for lack of personal jurisdiction.  NAD
argues that it is a foreign corporation that lacks the requisite minimum
contacts to be subject to personal jurisdiction in California and has not
availed itself of the benefits of California. 
(Motion, p. 1.) NAD submits a declaration from Judy R. Glass, its
treasurer and chief financial officer. 
Glass states that NAD is a citizen of the State of Maryland with its
office located in Columbia, Maryland. (Glass Decl., ¶ 4.) NAD has never been
incorporated in or maintained its principal place of business in the State of
California. (Glass Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) NAD does not: (1) engage or solicit any
business in California, (2) pay taxes to California, (3) maintain a personal
registered agent for service of process in California, (4) own or lease any
real property in California, or (5) have a bank account, assets, property, or
other facilities in California. (Glass Decl., ¶¶  8-12.) Glass further avers that NAD never had
any contact with Plaintiff and had no involvement with any of the facts and
circumstances alleged in her Complaint. (Glass Decl., ¶ 13.) NAD only employs
one person who resides in California who provides chaplain services for certain
Seventh-day Adventist and affiliated organizations. (Glass Decl., ¶ 14.) NAD
also employs one contract employee who resides in California and works remotely
to provide supporting services to the Adventist Learning Community located in
Berrien Springs, Michigan. (Glass Decl., ¶ 15.) NAD argues that these two
employees are insufficient to establish minimum contracts for this Court to
exercise jurisdiction because these employees are unrelated to the litigation
and do not create an affiliation between California and the controversy
underlying this claim.  (Motion, p. 10.) 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A.  
Jurisdiction
“A court of this state may exercise
jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state
or of the United States.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) The exercise of personal
jurisdiction is constitutionally permissible only if the defendant has
sufficient “minimum contacts” with the forum state so that the exercise of
jurisdiction “does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Internat. Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316;
accord, Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268.) The
defendant's contacts with the forum state must be such that the defendant had
“fair warning” that its activities might subject it to personal jurisdiction in
the state. (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472.)
“In judging minimum contacts, a court properly focuses on ‘the relationship
among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” (Calder v. Jones (1984)
465 U.S. 783, 788.) ¿It is well-established that “[p]ersonal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific.”¿ (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at pp.
268–269.)¿

“A nonresident defendant may be subject
to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum
state are ‘substantial . . . continuous and systematic.’  [Citations.] In such a case, ‘it is not necessary
that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s
business relation to the forum.’ 
[Citation.] Such a defendant’s contacts with the forum are so
wide-ranging that they take the place of physical presence in the forum as a
basis for jurisdiction.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) 
If a nonresident defendant does not
have substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, specific jurisdiction may be established where the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits and the
controversy is related to or arises out of a defendant’s contacts with the
forum. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 126-127.) “Specific
jurisdiction is determined under a three-part test: (1) the nonresident
defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or
perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant’s forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) Once it has been
determined that a defendant purposefully established minimum contacts, these
contacts may be considered in light of other factors to determine whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with “fair play and
substantial justice.”  (Burger King
Corp., supra, 471 U.S. at p. 476.) 
Factors to consider are “the burden on the defendant, the interests of
the forum State, and the plaintiff’s interest in obtaining relief.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v.
Superior Court of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  A court must “also weigh in its determination
‘the interstate judicial system’s interest in obtaining the most efficient
resolution of the controversies; and the shared interest of the several States
in furthering fundamental substantive social policies.’” (Ibid [citing World-Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 292].)   
B.  
Timing
and Burden of Proof 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead… may serve and
file a notice of motion… to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)
“A plaintiff opposing a motion to quash service of process for lack of personal
jurisdiction has the initial burden to demonstrate facts establishing a basis
for personal jurisdiction.”¿ (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) The plaintiff must establish the facts of jurisdiction
by a preponderance of the evidence.”¿ (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”¿ (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 210.)¿ “Declarations cannot be mere vague assertions of ultimate
facts, but must offer specific evidentiary facts permitting a court to form an
independent conclusion on the issue of jurisdiction.”¿ (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I
& II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.)¿¿¿ ¿“If the plaintiff satisfies that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that the exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable.”¿ (HealthMarkets, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1168.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Plaintiff’s
Evidence
Plaintiff
submits various website links from the Entity Defendants’ websites, including: 
-     
A copy of NAD’s “Organizational
Structure” webpage with the following text in highlighting: “The General
Conference . . . , the most extensive unit of organization, is made up of all
unions/entities in all parts of the world. 
Divisions are sections of the General Conference, with administrative
responsibility for particular geographical area.”  (Jaafar Decl. Exhibit B.) 
 
-     
A copy of the Constitution of the
General Conference of Seventh-Day Adventists with the following text
highlighted: “The General Conference conducts much of its work through its
divisions, which in turn are comprised of unions in specific areas of the
world. Each division of the General Conference is authorized to carry out
responsibilities in the territory assigned to it. It shall act in full harmony
with the General Conference Constitution and Bylaws, the General Conference
Working Policy, and actions of the Executive Committee.  [¶] In order to carry the authority of the
General Conference, the actions of division committees shall, of necessity, be
in harmony with and complementary to the decisions of the General Conference in
session, and the actions of the General Conference Executive Committee between
Sessions. (Jaafar Decl. Exhibit C.) 
 
-     
A highlighted excerpt from the
Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual which states: “The Church Manual has
existed in its current format since 1932 It describes the operation and
functions of local churches and their relationship to denominational structures
in which they hold membership. The Church Manual also expresses the Church’s
understanding of Christian life and church governance and discipline based on
biblical principles and the authority of duly assembled General Conference
Sessions.” (Jaafar Decl. Ex. D, p. 17.) Another excerpt from the manual states:
“The General Conference represents the worldwide expression of the Church. Its
constituent membership is defined in its Constitution. To facilitate its
worldwide activity, the General Conference has established regional offices,
known as divisions of the General Conference, which have been assigned, by
action of the General Conference Executive Committee at Annual Councils,
general administrative oversight for designated groups of unions and other
Church units within specific geographical areas.”  (Ex. D, p. 29.) 
 
-     
A link from Conference’s website
titling “Our Churches,” which states that the Southern California Conference of
Seventh-day Adventists has more than 150 congregations with tens of thousands
of members. (Jaafar Decl. Ex. E.)
 
-     
A link from Seventh-day Adventist
website, stating that divisions have administrative and supervisory
responsibilities for groups of church units. (Jaafar Decl. Ex. F [Doe 2].)
 
-     
A link from NAD’s website, outlining
brand guidelines to ensure “consistency” with logos, typography, and color
palette. (Jaafar Decl. Exs. G, H.)
 
-     
A link from NAD’s website which depicts
the “Theology of Ordination Study Committee Report.” (Jaafar Decl. Ex. I.) 
 
-     
A link from Seventh-day Adventist
Church’s website with a copy of its “Mission Statement” (Jaafar Decl. Ex. J].) 
 
B.  
General
Jurisdiction
Plaintiff argues that NAD is subject to
general jurisdiction under the representative services doctrine because it has
pervasive, systematic and continuous contact with California by controlling and
implementing policies over each local church through union conferences and
local conferences.  (Opp., p. 12.)
Plaintiff claims that union churches and local conferences operate through NAD
and NAD enforces the corporate policies of its membership organizations as well
as its standards for creating new local churches, dissolving churches and
companies, employing pastors and elders, prerequisites for membership of the
church, and general principles and process of discipline. (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff cites to Paneno v. Centres
for Academic Programmes Abroad Ltd., in which the court held that a non-
resident defendant headquartered in the United Kingdom and operating a travel
abroad student program was subject to general jurisdiction in California under
the representative services doctrine through its separate California-based
company. (Paneno v. Centres for Academic Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004)
118 Cal. App. 4th 1447.) The court found that the UK defendant “engage[d] in
business operations closely connected to the business of” the California-based
company which plaintiff contracted with, even if the defendant organizations
were not parent-subsidiaries of one another. (Id. at p. 1457.) Moreover,
the court noted that the defendants utilized “the same generic trade name and
that “by setting up two related corporate entities – one to recruit and enter
into contracts with students and one to provide all necessary accommodations
for them – [the UK defendant] [was] attempting to avoid answering to any claim
for negligence in California.” (Id.) The court concluded that it
“[would] not allow such trickery to be used to deny [plaintiff] his day in
court.” (Id.)  
Here, however, Plaintiff’s evidence is
insufficient for the Court to conclude that NAD exercises control or oversight
over local churches or other entities in California to be “essentially” at home
in California.  Plaintiff’s excerpts from
websites only reflect the existence of a hierarchy with general statements of
“administrative responsibility” and doctrinal uniformity.  Also, NAD’s guidelines to ensure consistency
with logos and branding for all churches in its division, including those in
California, are not evidence of such pervasive, systematic and continuous
contact with California as to subject it to general jurisdiction.  
C.  
Specific
Jurisdiction
Plaintiff’s
evidence is also insufficient to establish that NAD is subject to specific
jurisdiction. “A nonresident defendant is subject to specific personal
jurisdiction only if (1) the defendant purposefully availed itself of the
benefits of conducting activities in the forum state; (2) the controversy
arises out of or is related to the defendant's forum contacts; and (3) the
exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable. (Id.)¿ The Court of Appeal has restated this
test in plainer language, explaining that courts test for specific jurisdiction
“by examining the relationships between this litigation, these defendants, and
California.”¿
(Dunne v. State of Florida (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1344.)¿ “These guidelines are not susceptible
of mechanical application, and the jurisdictional rules are not clear-cut.
Rather, a court must weigh the facts in each case to determine whether the
defendant's contacts with the forum state are sufficient.”¿ (HealthMarkets, supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1167 [citations omitted].)¿¿ 
There is no evidence that NAD exercised
pervasive or systematic control over local churches in California or otherwise
implemented or enforced any measures or policies relating to the prevention of sexual
abuse. Although NAD states it employs two people in California, one who
provides chaplain services for certain Seventh-day Adventist organizations and
military personnel, and another who is a contract employee, (Glass Decl. ¶ 14-15),
there is no allegation showing that the employment of these individuals is
related to Plaintiff’s injuries.  
D.  Jurisdictional Discovery
In the alternative, Plaintiff requests
the Court continue the hearing 90 days and allow limited jurisdictional
discovery. Plaintiff proposes depositions, inspection demands, and
interrogatories relating to NAD’s conduct and activity in California, its
corporate structure and relationships or agreements with any member
organizations, and other documents relating to by laws, governing structures,
training, employment practices, screening and background checks.  (Opp., pp. 14-15.) 
          The Court
grants the request for jurisdictional discovery and CONTINUES the hearing.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The
hearing on NAD’s motion to quash is continued to December 27, 2023, at 8:30
a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to file a supplemental brief by December 13, 2023. 
NAD
may file a supplemental reply brief by December 19, 2023. 
Dated
this 25th
day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.