 Case Number:  22STCV22080    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes
(“Plaintiff”) and Eileen Reyes filed this action against Defendants Milestone
Haulers Inc LSE, Ivan Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”), and Does 1-50 for negligence and
negligence per se. 
On
September 8, 2022, Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc. (erroneously sued and
served as Milestone Haulers Inc LSE) (“Milestone”) and Rodriguez (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
October 5, 2022, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Eileen Reyes with prejudice at
Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
November 29, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further deposition
testimony, to be heard on February 22, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing to March 19,
2024.  On February 8, 2024, Jose filed an
opposition. On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.  
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to order Plaintiff to answer questions asked at his deposition. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
 “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).)   
DISCUSSION 
Defendants
ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to answer questions that Plaintiff, at his
counsel’s instruction, refused to answer at his November 10, 2023 deposition. 
A.   Deposition questions 1-2: Plaintiff’s address and
city of residence 
At Plaintiff’s
deposition, Defendants’ counsel asked Plaintiff for his address and city of
residence. Plaintiff’s counsel objected that the questions violated Plaintiff’s
privacy rights and instructed Plaintiff not to answer. 
“A
deponent who has objected to a question and refused to answer bears the burden
of justifying such refusal on the motion to compel.  For example, if the objection was that the
question called for privileged information, the burden is on the deponent to
show that the question in fact calls for information protected by a privilege.”
(L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:814, pp. 8E-148 to 8E-149 (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s right to privacy under State or federal
law.  (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97.)  “Unlike privilege, the protection afforded is
qualified, not absolute.  In each case,
the court must carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for
discovery [citation].  The showing
required to overcome the protection depends on the nature of the privacy right
asserted; in some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in
others, a compelling interest must be shown. 
(Id., ¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.) 
“The burden is on ‘the party asserting a privacy interest to establish
its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion,’ and then the court
must ‘weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.’”  (Ibid.) 
“[H]ome
contact information is generally considered private.”  (County of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles
County Employee Relations Com. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 904, 927 [although County
employees have a legally protected privacy interest in their home addresses and
phone numbers, the balance of interests favors disclosure of this information to
the union that represents them].) 
“The
party seeking discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential
information sought.  The broad ‘relevancy
to the subject matter’ standard is not enough here.  The court must be convinced that the
information is directly relevant to a cause of action or defense, i.e., that it
is essential to determining the truth of the matters in dispute.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:320, p. 8C-119.) 
Defendants
argue that, in light of Plaintiff’s damage claims, Plaintiff’s address and city
of residence are “relevant to Defendants’ ability to evaluate Plaintiff’s
current living situation, as opposed to the same prior to the subject incident.” 
Defendants’ arguments lack merit.  Defendants have not carried their burden of showing
a particularized need for Plaintiff’s address and city of residence.  The Court denies the request to compel Plaintiff’s
answers to these questions. 
B.   Deposition question 3: Plaintiff’s status as owner or
renter of home 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection to the question whether Plaintiff owned his
home or rented and instructed Plaintiff not to answer. 
Defendants
argue the question is appropriate because Plaintiff is claiming lost earning
capacity as a result of his injuries and “[t]he unanswered question sought to
be compelled seeks relevant information as to whether Plaintiff owns or rents
with his income and how he receives that income because he is not currently
working.”  In addition, Defendants assert
that the question is “relevant to Defendants’ ability to evaluate Plaintiff’s
current living situation, as opposed to the same prior to the subject
incident.” 
Defendants’
arguments lack merit.  Defendants have
not carried their burden of showing a particularized need to know if Plaintiff
rents or owns his home. The Court denies the request to compel Plaintiff’s
answer to this question. 
C.   Deposition question 4: How long Plaintiff dated his
wife and how they met 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection to the following questions: “How long did
you date your wife before you got married” and “How did you two meet?”  Plaintiff’s counsel instructed Plaintiff not
to answer. 
Defendants
argue the questions are appropriate because Plaintiff’s wife has personal knowledge
of Plaintiff’s pre-accident and post-accident physical condition, filed a claim
for loss of consortium (which she later withdrew), and filed a request for a restraining
order against Plaintiff in April 2021. 
According to Defendants, the questions are “relevant to Defendants’
ability to evaluate the credibility of Plaintiff’s wife as a witness to the
subject lawsuit.” 
Defendants’
arguments lack merit.  Defendants have
not carried their burden of showing a particularized need to know how long
Plaintiff dated his wife before they married or how Plaintiff and his wife met. 
D.   Deposition questions 5-10: Questions to which
Plaintiff’s counsel made objections that did not excuse Plaintiff from the duty
to answer 
At
Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel asserted a relevance objection to
questions about Plaintiff’s wife’s request for a restraining order and
instructed Plaintiff not to answer.  Plaintiff’s
counsel also accused Defendant’s counsel of harassing and badgering Plaintiff and instructed Plaintiff not to answer questions about methamphetamine use.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not demand that the
deposition be suspended to permit counsel to seek a protective order. 
“It is generally improper . . . for counsel to
instruct a witness not to answer on grounds other than privilege, privacy,
trade secrets, or other matters statutorily or constitutionally exempt from
discovery.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:734.2, p. 8E-124, citing Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013-1005.) 
“Irrelevance alone is an insufficient ground to justify instructing a
witness not to answer a deposition question . . . .”  (Id., ¶ 8:734.4, p. 8E-124.) 
In addition,
“an objection does not excuse the deponent from the duty to answer unless the
objecting party demands the deposition be suspended to permit a motion for
protective order, or if the witness is instructed not to answer to protect
privilege or privacy.”  (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 8:733, p. 8E-123.) 
The
Court grants Defendants’ request to compel Plaintiff to answer deposition questions
5-10 in Defendants’ motion. 
E.   Deposition question 11: Whether Plaintiff’s previous
wife sought a restraining order against Plaintiff 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection to the question whether Plaintiff’s former
wife sought a restraining order against Plaintiff and instructed Plaintiff not
to answer. 
Defendants
argue the question was appropriate because Plaintiff’s issues with anger and
violence before the accident are relevant to determining the extent to which
the accident caused Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, which include traumatic brain
injuries and related cognitive deficits. 
The
Court has weighed Plaintiff’s privacy interests against Defendant’s interest in
defending the case and concludes that Defendants may examine Plaintiff about
his former wife’s request for a restraining order and matters directly related
to that request.  
F.    Deposition questions 12-15, 18: Plaintiff’s previous
wives, his current wife, and number of marriages 
Plaintiff’s counsel asserted privacy objections to questions
about (1) when Plaintiff and his former wives were married and divorced, (2) Plaintiff’s
marriage with his current wife, and (3) how many times Plaintiff has married.  Counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer. 
Defendants
have not carried their burden of showing a particularized need to know when
Plaintiff and his previous wives were married and divorced, when Plaintiff married his current wife, or how many times Plaintiff has married.
G.  Deposition question 16: No instruction not to answer 
The
Court denies this request because Plaintiff’s counsel did not instruct
Plaintiff not to answer the question. 
H.  Deposition question 17: prior accident 
Plaintiff’s
counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer a question about a prior accident,
telling Plaintiff he could only answer questions about accidents where he was
injured.  
The
instruction not to answer was improper.  (See Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:734.2, p. 8E-124 [“It is generally improper .
. . for counsel to instruct a witness not to answer on grounds other than
privilege, privacy, trade secrets, or other matters statutorily or
constitutionally exempt from discovery”].) The Court grants Defendants’ request
to compel Plaintiff’s answer to this question. 
I.     Deposition question 19: Whether Cecilia sought a restraining
order against Plaintiff 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection to the question whether “Cecilia” ever
sought a restraining order against Plaintiff and told Defendant’s counsel, “We
are not going to get into that.” 
The
Court has weighed Plaintiff’s privacy interests against Defendant’s interest in
defending the case and concludes that Defendants may examine Plaintiff about “Cecilia’s”
request for a restraining order and matters directly related to that
request.  
J.    Deposition questions 20-21: Commerce Casino 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection to the question whether Plaintiff had ever
been to Commerce Casino.  
Plaintiff
has not carried his burden of showing that attending Commerce Casino implicates
Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  The Court
grants Defendant’s request to ask Plaintiff this question. 
K.  Deposition questions 22-23: Plaintiff’s memory of the
accident 
Plaintiff’s
counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer questions about what he remembered
about the accident.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel did not assert objections
based on “privilege, privacy, trade secrets, or other matters statutorily or
constitutionally exempt from discovery.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶
8:734.2, p. 8E-124.) 
The instructions not to answer were improper.  The Court grants Defendants’ request to
compel Plaintiff’s answer to these questions. 
L.   Deposition question 24:  Cell phone carrier 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted a privacy objection and instructed Plaintiff not to answer a
question asking who his cell phone carrier was at the time of the accident. 
Plaintiff
has not carried his burden of showing that the identity of his cell phone
carrier implicates Plaintiff’s privacy rights. 
The Court grants Defendant’s request to ask Plaintiff this question. 
M. Deposition questions 25-26: Vehicle damage 
Plaintiff’s
counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer questions about damage to his
vehicle.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel
did not assert objections based on “privilege, privacy, trade secrets, or other
matters statutorily or constitutionally exempt from discovery.” (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 8:734.2, p. 8E-124.) 
The
instructions not to answer were improper. 
The Court grants Defendants’ request to compel Plaintiff’s answers to
these questions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion of Defendants Milestone
Haulers Inc. and Ivan Rodriguez to compel Plaintiff Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes’s
further deposition testimony as set forth above.  Plaintiff is to provide further answers on the resumption of his deposition, which will take place within 30 days of the date of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.