 Case Number:  22STCV11950    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 8, 2022, Plaintiff Kimberley Marie Elerton (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Brandon Lamahr Frison (“Frison”), California Coach
Orange, Inc. (“Coach”), and Does 1-100 for negligence, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligence per
se, assault and battery, and negligent hiring, retention and supervision. 
On
January 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants
Bahaeddin Fawzi Hassan (“Bahaeddin Hassan”) as Doe 1 and Southside Towing (“Southside”)
as Doe 2.  On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to include Defendant Hadley Towing Equipment, Inc. (“Hadley”)
as Doe 3. 
On
July 5, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Frison, Mark Fawzi Hassan (“Mark Hassan”), Hadley, All
American Towing Inland Empire, LLC (“All American”), Park Avenue Realty
Investments, Inc. (“Park Avenue”), and Roes 1-10 for total equitable indemnity,
contribution, equitable apportionment, and declaratory relief.    
On
July 25, 2023, Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and Southside filed an amended answer
to Plaintiff’s complaint.   
On
September 6, 2023, the clerk entered Hadley’s default on the cross-complaint. 
On
September 11, 2023, Frison and All American filed (1) an answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint, (2) an answer to the cross-complaint of Coach, Bahaeddin Hassan, and
Southside, and (3) a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Laila Aaen
(“Aaen”) and Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, apportionment of comparative
negligence, and declaration relief. 
On
September 13, 2023, the clerk entered the defaults of Mark Hassan and Park
Avenue. 
On
February 22, 2024, Aaen filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint filed by Frison
and All American, to be heard on March 19, 2024. On March 5, 2024, Frison and All
American filed an opposition. On March 12, 2024, Aaen filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for July 8, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Aaen
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to the cross-complaint filed by Frison
and All American. 
Frison
and All American ask the Court to overrule the demurrer or grant leave to amend
the cross-complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides in part: 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds.
(e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits
the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate facts
alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25 (Cal.
Practice Guide), emphasis omitted.) 
DISCUSSION 
The cross-complaint
alleges that the negligence of Aaen and other Cross-Defendants caused the
damages alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. 
However, the cross-complaint alleges no facts supporting this claim. Therefore,
the Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS Cross-Defendant Laila Aaen’s demurrer to the cross-complaint
filed by Cross-Complainants Brandon
Lamahr Frison and All American Towing Inland Empire, LLC with 30 days leave to
amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.