 Case Number:  22STCV08569    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
June 6, 2022, Plaintiffs Irene Lomeli, Jaleen Jones, and Angel Alston (“Alston”)
filed this action against Defendants Ricardo Menola Garcia, Activ Enterprises,
LLC (“Activ”), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
October 18, 2022, Activ filed an answer. 
On February 2, 2023, Defendant Ricardo Mendiola Garcia (erroneously sued
and served as Ricardo Menola Garcia)
filed an answer. 
On
May 17, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as Alston’s
counsel. 
On
January 26, 2024, the Court dismissed the claims of Plaintiffs Irene Lomeli and
Jaleen Jones with prejudice at their request. 
On
February 8, 2024, Activ filed (1) a motion to compel Alston’s responses to
requests for production of documents, set two, (2) a motion to compel Alston’s
responses to special interrogatories, set two, (3) a motion to compel Alson’s responses to form interrogatories, set two, and (4) a “Motion to Compel [Alston’s] Requests
for Admissions, Set Two.”  Alston has not
filed oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 8, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Activ
asks the Court (1) to compel Alston’s responses to requests for production of
documents, set two, (2) to compel Alston’s responses to special
interrogatories, set two, (3) to compel Alson’s responses to form
interrogatories, set two, and (4) to “Compel [Alston’s] Requests for
Admissions, Set Two.”  Activ also
requests monetary sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
C.      Requests for admission 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.280 provides: 
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280.) 
DISCUSSION 
On August
23, 2023, Activ served requests for production of documents, set two, special
interrogatories, set two, form interrogatories, set two, and requests for
admission, set two, on Alston. 
Alston
did not provide timely responses and had not provided responses by the time Activ
filed the motions to compel. 
The
Court grants the motions to compel responses to the requests for production of
documents, set two, special interrogatories, set two, and form interrogatories,
set two, and orders Alston to serve verified code-compliant responses, without
objections, and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections by April 18, 2024. 
As
noted, Activ’s motion regarding the requests for admission is titled “Motion to
Compel [Alston’s] Requests for Admissions, Set Two.”  The body of the motion initially asks the
Court to deem admitted the matters specified in the requests for
admission.  (Motion p. 1.)  Subsequently, however, Activ describes the
motion as a “motion to compel” (Motion p. 2). 
Heading III of the motion asserts: “Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Response to Requests [for] Admissions is Within the Scope of the
Discovery Act.”  (Motion p. 3,
capitalization, bold, and underlining omitted.) 
Heading IV of the motion asserts: “This Court Should Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Defendant’s Requests for Admissions Immediately.”  (Motion p. 4, capitalization, bold, and
underlining omitted.)  The motion argues that “the
Court should compel Plaintiff to provide full and complete responses to the
outstanding discovery requests, without objection.”  (Motion p. 3.) 
The
Court construes Activ’s motion as a request to compel Alston to provide
responses to the requests for admission and not as a motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission. 
Because the motion mostly requests an order compelling responses, Alston,
who is unrepresented, might not have understood that Activ was requesting an
order deeming admitted the matters specified in the requests for admission.  As a result, it would be unfair to Alston to
deem the matters admitted. 
The
Court grants Activ’s motion to compel Alston to provide responses to the
requests for admission and orders Alston to provide code-compliant verified
responses, without objections, by April 18, 2024. 
Activ requests sanctions on each motion.  However, Alston has not made or opposed a
motion to compel responses to requests for production, interrogatories, or
requests for admission.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
Activ also relies on the statutory definition of
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc, § 2023.010.)  However, “[Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is] ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions
may not be imposed based solely on [the statute].  Monetary sanctions may be imposed only if
authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery
process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or other provision of this title”]; City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 498-504.) 
Because Activ has not identified a statutory basis for
sanctions on its motions to compel, the Court denies the requests for monetary
sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Activ Enterprises, LLC’s motion
to compel Plaintiff Angel Alston’s responses to requests for production of
documents, set two, and orders Plaintiff Angel Alston to serve verified
code-compliant responses, without objections, and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections by April 18, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Activ Enterprises, LLC’s motion to compel Plaintiff
Angel Alston’s responses to special interrogatories, set two, and orders
Plaintiff Angel Alston to serve verified code-compliant responses to the
special interrogatories without objections by April 18, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Activ Enterprises, LLC’s motion to compel Plaintiff
Angel Alston’s responses to form interrogatories, set two, and orders Plaintiff
Angel Alston to serve verified code-compliant responses to the form
interrogatories without objections by April 18, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Activ Enterprises, LLC’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Angel Alston’s responses to requests for admission, set
two, and orders Plaintiff Angel Alston to serve verified code-compliant
responses to the requests for admission without objections by April 18, 2024. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Activ Enterprises, LLC’s requests for sanctions. 
Moving
party is to give notice of the Court’s ruling. 
Moving
party is to file proof of service of the Court’s ruling within five days.