 Case Number:  23STCV14643    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Betty Tobar, Alaia
  Tobar, and Jaylah Tobar filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Fire
  Department, City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, Domingo Albarran,
  Ryan Hammonds, and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Daniel D.
  Geoulla, Esq. - B&D Law Group, APLC, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel
  for Plaintiff Betty Tobar to be heard on March 19, 2024. 
Trial is currently scheduled for December 19, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiffs’ counsel Daniel D. Geoulla, Esq. -
  B&D Law Group, APLC, asks to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Betty
  Tobar. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice
  of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section
  284(2) must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of
  Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding
  any other rule of court, no memorandum is required to be filed or served with
  a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion
  to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration
  in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
  MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
  the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under
  Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent
  under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice
  of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served
  on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
  may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the notice is served on the client by
  mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
  declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The
  service address is the current residence or business address of the client;
  or 
“(B)   The service address is the last known residence
  or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate
  a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30
  days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the notice is served on the client by
  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule
  2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic
  service address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in
  this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was confirmed within 30 days before
  the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice
  was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned or no
  electronic delivery failure message was received is not, by itself, sufficient
  to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by mail, Code
  of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The
  proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
  Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged
  with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all hearing dates
  scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known.
  If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify
  the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order
  must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the
  case. The court may delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel
  until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has been
  filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c), provides
  that the declaration supporting a motion to be relieved as counsel “must
  state in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
  attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure
  section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
  Procedure section 284(1).”  
Here, counsel’s declaration states: “The basis [for the motion] is due to the rejection of the claim
  from the City and a denial from the driver due to all mentioned plaintiff's
  being related and residing in the same house.”  The declaration does not explain why
  counsel has filed a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead
  of a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1). 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Daniel D. Geoulla,
  Esq. - B&D Law Group, APLC to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Betty
  Tobar. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days.