  Case Number:  23AVCV00370    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs
Susan Ekdahl, individually, and as Administrator of the Estate of Edward A.
Ekdahl (“Susan”1); and Edward A.
Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl (“Decedent” and
collectively “Plaintiffs”), allege that on (1) January 02, 2022, Decedent was
transported to Defendant  Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale
Regional Medical Center, erroneously sued as Palmdale Regional Medical Center
(“PRMC”)’s Emergency Department by ambulance for chest main and shortness of
breath; (2) Decedent was admitted shortly after midnight on January 03, 2022,
with Defendant Sonia P. Sethi, M.D. (“Dr. Sethi”) as his attending physician;
(3) while in the patient room Decedent was connected to an intravenous line,
heated high-flow oxygen, and some vital sign monitoring cables; (4) at around
6:00 pm on January 03, 2022, as a result of failure to provide medial and
non-medical services, including supervision, Decedent was able to remove
various lines and cables from his body and proceeded to the bathroom unattended
without supervision; (5) there was no alerting device in place or protocol to
alert Dr. Sethi and attending medical staff in real-time that a patient was
exiting the bed alone without supervision; (6) Decedent collapsed and went into
cardiac arrest while in the bathroom; (7) when medical staff discovered
Decedent, they were unable to retrieve him because the bathroom door was
locked; (8) Decedent was unresponsive when medical staff reached him; (9)
Decedent was transferred to PRMC’s Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”); and (10)
Decedent never came back to consciousness and passed away on January 13, 2022,
as a result of Defendants’ acts and omissions. 
 
On April 05, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint alleging three causes of action against PRMC.  
 
On June 14, 2023, PRMC filed a Demurrer with
Motion to Strike.¿¿ 
¿ 
On July 21, 2023, before the Demurrer with
Motion to Strike was heard, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). The FAC added Dr. Sethi as a defendant and alleged three causes of
action for: (1) Wrongful Death against all defendants; (2) Survivor Cause of
Action – Medical Negligence against all defendants; and (3) Survivor Cause of
Action – Negligence: Premises Liability against PRMC.¿ 
 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed two
amendments to the FAC, substituting the fictitious name of Doe 1 to Envision
Healthcare Corporation, a Delaware Corporation (“Envision Healthcare”); and Doe
2 to Envision Physician Services, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company
doing business in California (“Envision Physician Services”).  
 
On December 04, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed
Envision Healthcare and Envision Physician Services. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), subsequently
granted. 
 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
SAC. 
 
On July 23, 2024, Dr. Sethi filed a Motion
for Summary Judgment. 
 
On February 02, 2024, Dr. Sethi filed a
Motion to Continue Trial Date. Dr. Sethi came in Ex Parte on the same date to
continue trial. The Ex Parte Application was granted.  
 
On February 07, 2024, PRMC filed four
Motions to Compel, later withdrawn.  
 
On August 07, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Notice of Errata stating that the filed SAC was a previous draft. 
 
On August 09, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
correct version of the SAC, alleging nine causes of action for: (1) Wrongful
Death by Susan against all defendants; (2) Survivor Cause of Action – Medical
Negligence by the Estate of Edward A. Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in
Interest, Susan Ekdahl, against all defendants; (3) Survivor Cause of Action –
Negligence: Premises Liability by the Estate of Edward A. Ekdahl, by and
through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl, against PRMC; (4) Negligent
Hiring, Training, Supervision and/or Retention by the Estate of Edward A.
Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl, against PRMC;
(5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty by Susan against PRMC; (6) Fraudulent Concealment
by Susan against PRMC; (7) Constructive Fraud by Susan against PRMC; (8)
Intentional Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC; and (9) Negligent
Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC.  


 
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion
to Compel Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Production of
Documents, Deposition of PRMC Party Witnesses, and Deposition of Person Most
Knowledgeable (“Motion to Compel Further”). 
 
On September 04, 2024, PRMC filed its
Opposition to the Motion to Compel Further. 
 
On September 06, 2024, the Court issued a
Court Order indicating that Plaintiff combined five motions to compel in the
Motion to Compel Further. The Court ordered Plaintiffs to pay the correct
filing fees.  
 
On September 11, 2024 a Stipulation was
entered to strike any and all allegations against Dr. Sethi which reference
“Careless,” “Reckless,” “Indifference,” And “Wanton Disregard” As Set Forth
from the SAC. 
 
On October 09, 2024, PRMC filed this Demurrer
with Motion to Strike, to be heard after Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel.  
 
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed
Dr. Sethi.  
 
On November 01, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Oppositions to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
On November 12, 2024, the Court held a
hearing on the Motion to Compel Further and took it under submission. On the
same date, PRMC filed its Replies. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.) It appears from Courtney S. Becker’s declaration that the requirement
has been met. (See Demurrer and Motion to Strike at Decl. Courtney S. Becker (“Becker”)
¶ 6.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
       
i.           
Demurrer
 
PRMC demurs to five causes of
action: (1) the Fifth Cause of Action (Breach
of Fiduciary Duty by Susan against PRMC); (2) the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraudulent
Concealment by Susan against PRMC); (3) the Seventh Cause of Action (Constructive
Fraud by Susan against PRMC); (4) the Eighth Cause of Action (Intentional
Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC); and (5) the Ninth Cause of Action (Negligent
Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC).   
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs argue that the Demurrer to the SAC is
untimely as the SAC was filed on August 09, 2024. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.40
provides, in relevant part: “(a) A person against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” Here,
PRMC did not file its Demurrer with Motion to Strike until October 09, 2024,
two months after the correct SAC was filed. However, a trial court has
discretion to consider an untimely demurrer. (See Jackson v. Doe (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 742, 749 [citing McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 253, 280 and Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1)].) Jackson v.
Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742 (“Jackson”) further provides:
 
Though not cited by
either party, McAllister, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at page 280, is
on point. There, the defendant demurred to the plaintiff's second amended
complaint and the trial court sustained the demurrer without leave to amend. (Id.
at p. 267.) On appeal, the plaintiff argued the court should have denied the
demurrer as untimely because “a demurrer must be filed and served within 30
days after service of the complaint …” pursuant to section 430.40, subdivision
(a). (McAllister, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 279, original
italics.) The McAllister court rejected this argument for two reasons. First,
the court noted that section 430.40 is permissive, not mandatory, because it
uses the term “may” rather than “must.” (McAllister, supra, at p.
280.) Second, the court held that “ ‘[t]here is no absolute right to have a
pleading stricken for lack of timeliness in filing where no question of
jurisdiction is involved, and where, as here, the late filing was a mere
irregularity [citation]; the granting or denial of the motion is a matter which
lies within the discretion of the court.’ [Citations.] [¶] … The trial court
may exercise this discretion so long as its action does ‘not affect the
substantial rights of the parties.’ [Citations].” (Id. at pp. 281–282.)
 
We reach the same
conclusion here. As noted above, section 473, subdivision (a)(1) allows the
court to increase the time for filing a demurrer in furtherance of justice and
on any terms that may be proper. The trial court's consideration of the
demurrer, filed 38 days after plaintiff served the complaint, did not affect
plaintiff's “substantial rights,” where plaintiff did not take steps to obtain
a default judgment or demonstrate the delay prejudiced her. (McAllister,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 282; see also § 475 [requiring the court to
“disregard any error … or defect, in the pleadings” that does not affect the
substantial rights of the parties].) Therefore, we conclude the lower court
acted within its broad discretion by considering defendant's demurrer,
notwithstanding plaintiff's claim that it was untimely. (McAllister, supra,
at p. 282.)
 
(Jackson, supra, 192
Cal.App.4th at 750.) 
 
Though, here, the period of time
between the filing of the correct SAC and the Demurrer with Motion to Strike
was longer than in Jackson, Plaintiffs’ substantial rights are not
affected as Plaintiffs did not take steps to obtain a default judgment or
demonstrate the delay prejudiced them. The Court has discretion to consider
this Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
Plaintiffs next argue that there
was no good faith meet and confer, despite Becker’s declaration. “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 430.41(a)(4). Accordingly, the Court considers the Demurrer on its merits. 
 
a.       Fifth
Cause of Action (Breach of
Fiduciary Duty by Susan against PRMC)
 
PRMC argues that the law states
that hospitals owe a general duty of care, one that does not rise to the level
of a fiduciary duty, to patients. PRMC directs the Court and the parties to Moore
v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120 (“Moore”)
and argues that Wohlgemuth v. Meyer (1956) 139 Cal.App.2d 326 (“Wohlgemuth”),
cited to in the SAC, is inapplicable. PRMC further argues that the Fifth Cause
of Action is duplicative of the Second Cause of Action (Survivor Cause of
Action – Medical Negligence) as any breach of a general duty of care is encompassed
by the Second Cause of Action which stem from the same set of facts and provide
Plaintiff with no additional remedy. 
 
Plaintiffs cite to Wohlgemuth
and Weinberg v. Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1109
(“Weinberg”) and argues that hospitals do have a fiduciary duty.
Plaintiff further argues that there are special relationships that give rise to
fiduciary duties and Moore is inapplicable. Plaintiffs contend that this
cause of action is separate and distinct from the Second Cause of Action as one
is a duty to disclose and the other is related to PRMC’s acts and omissions. 
 
In Reply, PRMC reiterates the Moore
holding and lack of duty. PRMC contends that Susan does not have standing in
her individual capacity. The Reply does not rebut that the Fifth Cause of
Action is separate and distinct from the Second Cause of Action.
 
Only well-pled facts suffice to
state a cause of action under California law, and conclusory assertions are
disregarded in ruling on a demurrer. (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d
584, 591.) While the Court must accept as true all material allegations
properly pled in the complaint in evaluating a demurrer, the Court need not
accept legal conclusions, contentions or deductions. (Buller v. Sutter
Health (2008) 160 Cal.App. 4th 951, 986 (on demurrer, "[we do not
assume the truth of contentions, the deductions or conclusions of fact or
law." (internal quotations marks omitted)].) This includes Plaintiffs’
citation to Wohlgemuth within the SAC. However, Plaintiffs bring Wohlgemuth
up within their Opposition. 
 
Both parties agree that the
standard for a claim of breach of fiduciary duty are: the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages. (See Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820; see also Pellegrini
v. Weiss (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 515, 524.) “A fiduciary relationship is ‘ “
‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of
the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a confidence is
reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and insuch a relation the
party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes
to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the
interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent. . . .’ ”
’ ” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.) Whether a
fiduciary duty exists is generally a question of law. Whether the defendant
breached that duty towards the plaintiff is a question of fact.” (Marzec v.
Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915.)
 
Moore is distinguished as
its focus is on the use of a plaintiff’s cells in medical research without
permission and focused on the plaintiff’s stated cause of action for breach of
disclosure obligations. (See Moore, supra, 51 Cal.3d 120
[generally].) Moore, cited by PRMC to show that a hospital does not have
a fiduciary relationship with the patient being treated there, does not
explicitly state that a hospital does not have a fiduciary duty; rather, it
states:
 
The Regents, Quan,
Genetics Institute, and Sandoz  are not
physicians. In contrast to Golde, none of these defendants stood in a fiduciary
relationship with Moore or had the duty to obtain Moore's informed consent to
medical procedures. If any of these defendants is to be liable for breach of
fiduciary duty or performing medical procedures without informed consent, it
can only be on account of Golde's acts and on the basis of a recognized theory
of secondary liability, such as respondeat superior. The procedural posture of
this case, however, makes it unnecessary for us to address the sufficiency of
Moore's secondary-liability allegations.
 
(Moore, supra, 51
Cal.3d 120 at 133.)
 
Again, the emphasis in Moore
is on informed consent. 
 
Here, it is pled that Decedent
was under the care of PRMC and when a family member is incapacitated or passes
away, as in the case of Decedent, Ekdahl, the fiduciary duties that arise from
that relationship extend to the family members of the patient. (See SAC ¶¶
97-98.) It appears that the duty, as pled, was to submit a statutory required
adverse event report pursuant to Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1279.1 (see SAC
¶¶ 101-103), submit a statutory notification regarding Decedent to the coroner
pursuant to Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 102850 (see id. at ¶¶
104-105), and coverup the true events of Decedent’s death (see id. at ¶ 106-108).
 
Wohlgemuth provides, in
relevant part:
 
The doctor-patient
relationship is a fiduciary one and it is incumbent on the doctor to reveal all
pertinent information to his patient. The same is true of the hospital-patient
relationship. In the event of the death of the patient while under the care of
the doctor and the hospital, the spouse has a right to know the cause of death.
Withholding information would in a sense amount to misrepresentation. See Stafford
v. Shultz, 42 Cal.2d 767 [270 P.2d 1], for a full discussion of the
requirement that a physician make full and fair disclosure of all facts which
materially affect the patient's rights and interests, and of the fact that
because of the relationship between the doctor and the patient the patient is
entitled to rely on the doctor's assurances and that "'facts which would
ordinarily require investigation may not excite suspicion, and that the same
degree of diligence is not required'" as where such relationship does not
exist. (P. 777.) 
 
(Wohlgemuth, supra,
139 Cal.App.2d 326, 331.) 
 
However, the allegations as pled
do not center around Decedent’s cause of death. It is unclear how the alleged
breaches of statutory duties to the state department (see Cal. Health &
Saf. Code §§ 1279.1(a), 1278) or the coroner (Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
102850) constitute breaches of fiduciary duty as to Susan. Cal. Health &
Saf. Code § 1279.1(a) applies after a report is made. 
 
As to the allegations of a
systematic cover up that appears to include falsification of medical records
and false representations (see SAC ¶¶ 106-108), such allegations are
conclusory. 
 
As such, Plaintiff has not met
the elements of a claim of breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
b.      Sixth
Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment
by Susan against PRMC)
 
PRMC argues that Plaintiff cannot
assert that PRMC had a fiduciary duty under Moore, and that Plaintiff
cannot prove that the hospital was under a duty to disclose facts to her as where
material facts are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose
them is not actionable unless there is some relationship between the parties
which gives rise to a duty to disclose such facts and there was no transaction
between the parties. PRMC presents that Hahn v. Mirada (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740 (“Hahn”) and Moore are instructive. PRMC further
argues that the SAC alleges that PRMC failed to disclose material facts after
Decedent’s death and such material facts were not known until nearly two years
later, but Susan had knowledge of the circumstances surrounding the
circumstances as described in the original Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs argues that Moore
is flawed and PRMC had a duty not to conceal important information such as
Plaintiff had been ordered to Telemetry and his records state that he was
admitted when he was not. Plaintiffs argue that PRMC staff explicitly
represented to Plaintiff that PRMC medical staff had been “with Ed every
minute” and had offered him BSC or oxygen support to accompany his toileting in
the bathroom but that he declined and only two years after Decedent passed did
Susan come to realize none of PRMC’s representations were true. 
 
In Reply, PRMC reiterates that it
must have a duty to disclose and that such a failure to disclose is not
actionable unless a relationship between the parties give rise to a duty to
disclose. PRMC next argues specificity. 
 
The Court will not consider
PRMC’s specificity arguments. PRMC did not bring up specificity in its moving
papers nor is this argument in response to Plaintiffs’ Opposition. The salutary rule
is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be
considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them before.”
(Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) This
applies to new evidence as well – “[t]he general rule of motion
practice … is that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.” (Jay
v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.) “This rule is based on the
same solid logic applied in the appellate courts, specifically, that ‘[p]oints
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument.’ ” (Id. at 1538 [citing American Drug Stores,
Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453; Browne v. County of
Tehama (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 704, 720, fn. 10].) No good cause has been
shown for the failure to present these exhibits with the moving papers.
 
The section cited by PRMC in Moore
is inapposite as pages 131 through 132 of the opinion do not discuss either a
hospital-patient relationship or whether that relationship extends to a spouse.
Rather, this section of Moore discusses the fiduciary duty of a doctor
and plaintiff Moore’s allegations against his doctor. (See Moore, supra,
51 Cal.3d at 131-32.) 
 
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are:(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff, (3)the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did
if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248.)
 
Plaintiffs’ only argument as to Hahn
is that it is inapposite as it relates to physicians who falsely told Ms. Hahn
and her husband that she had breast cancer while she was alive. The Court,
respectfully, disagrees. Hahn states: 
 
Here, the trial
court sustained respondents' demurrer to the negligence and fraudulent
concealment causes of action. First, it is clear that appellant cannot state a
cause of action under either of those theories. An essential element of causes
of action for negligence and fraudulent concealment is duty. To establish
negligence, the evidence must show the alleged wrongdoer owed some duty of care
to the person injured. (Routh v. Quinn (1942) 20 Cal.2d 488, 491, 127 P.2d 1.)
To state a cause of action for fraudulent concealment, the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose some fact to the plaintiff. (Marketing West, Inc.
v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 613, 7 Cal.Rptr.2d 859.)
The complaint in this case alleges that respondents acted negligently toward
Ms. Hahn and that they failed to disclose certain facts to her. While
respondents may well have owed duties of care and disclosure to Ms. Hahn, their
patient, appellant has not cited and we are not aware of any authority that
would impose similar duties toward him as a patient's spouse. Indeed,
appellant concedes the point.
(Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 745 [emphasis added].) 
 
Plaintiffs, though citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 (“LiMandri”), provide no legal
standard to overcome the Hahn holding. Further, Plaintiffs’ arguments do
not tie the allegations of the SAC into the LiMandri standard. That is,
Plaintiffs regurgitate the allegations of the SAC without identifying which
alleged circumstance would constitute actionable fraud to Susan. 
 
Regarding Plaintiffs’ citation to
Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1279.1, Plaintiffs state: “For example, Health
& Safety Code section 1279.1 requires a hospital to report adverse
events—which include the death or serious disability of a patient--to ‘the
patient or the party responsible for the patient’ no later than five days after
the adverse event occurs. PRMC did not.” (Opp. 
12:19-13:2.) The Court notes that Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1279.1
is only incorporated into the Sixth Cause of Action. (See SAC ¶¶ 115-129.) However,
the Court addresses Plaintiffs’ arguments. The section states, in relevant
part:
 
(a) A health
facility licensed pursuant to subdivision (a), (b), or (f) of Section 1250
shall report an adverse event to the department no later than five days after
the adverse event has been detected, or, if that event is an ongoing urgent or
emergent threat to the welfare, health, or safety of patients, personnel, or
visitors, not later than 24 hours after the adverse event has been detected.
Disclosure of individually identifiable patient information shall be consistent
with applicable law.
 
(b) For purposes of
this section, “adverse event” includes any of the following:
 
(1) Surgical events,
including the following:
 
[. . .]
 
(E) Death during or
up to 24 hours after induction of anesthesia after surgery of a normal, healthy
patient who has no organic, physiologic, biochemical, or psychiatric
disturbance and for whom the pathologic processes for which the operation is to
be performed are localized and do not entail a systemic disturbance.
 
(2) Product or
device events, including the following:
 
(A) Patient death or
serious disability associated with the use of a contaminated drug, device, or
biologic provided by the health facility when the contamination is the result
of generally detectable contaminants in the drug, device, or biologic,
regardless of the source of the contamination or the product.
 
(B) Patient death or
serious disability associated with the use or function of a device in patient
care in which the device is used or functions other than as intended. For
purposes of this subparagraph, “device” includes, but is not limited to, a
catheter, drain, or other specialized tube, infusion pump, or ventilator.
 
(C) Patient death or
serious disability associated with intravascular air embolism that occurs while
being cared for in a facility, excluding deaths associated with neurosurgical
procedures known to present a high risk of intravascular air embolism.
 
(3) Patient
protection events, including the following:
 
[. . .]
 
(B) Patient death or
serious disability associated with patient disappearance for more than four
hours, excluding events involving adults who have competency or decisionmaking
capacity.
 
(C) A patient
suicide or attempted suicide resulting in serious disability while being cared
for in a health facility due to patient actions after admission to the health
facility, excluding deaths resulting from self-inflicted injuries that were the
reason for admission to the health facility.
 
(4) Care management
events, including the following:
 
(A) A patient death
or serious disability associated with a medication error, including, but not
limited to, an error involving the wrong drug, the wrong dose, the wrong
patient, the wrong time, the wrong rate, the wrong preparation, or the wrong
route of administration, excluding reasonable differences in clinical judgment
on drug selection and dose.
 
(B) A patient death
or serious disability associated with a hemolytic reaction due to the
administration of ABO-incompatible blood or blood products.
 
(C) Maternal death
or serious disability associated with labor or delivery in a low-risk pregnancy
while being cared for in a facility, including events that occur within 42 days
postdelivery and excluding deaths from pulmonary or amniotic fluid embolism,
acute fatty liver of pregnancy, or cardiomyopathy.
 
(D) Patient death or
serious disability directly related to hypoglycemia, the onset of which occurs
while the patient is being cared for in a health facility.
 
(E) Death or serious
disability, including kernicterus, associated with failure to identify and
treat hyperbilirubinemia in neonates during the first 28 days of life. For
purposes of this subparagraph, “hyperbilirubinemia” means bilirubin levels
greater than 30 milligrams per deciliter.
 
[. . .]
 
(G) A patient death
or serious disability due to spinal manipulative therapy performed at the
health facility.
 
(5) Environmental
events, including the following:
(A) A patient death
or serious disability associated with an electric shock while being cared for
in a health facility, excluding events involving planned treatments, such as
electric countershock.
 
[. . .]
 
(C) A patient death
or serious disability associated with a burn incurred from any source while
being cared for in a health facility.
 
(D) A patient death
associated with a fall while being cared for in a health facility.
 
(E) A patient death
or serious disability associated with the use of restraints or bedrails while
being cared for in a health facility.
 
(6) Criminal events,
including the following:
 
(A) Any instance of
care ordered by or provided by someone impersonating a physician, nurse,
pharmacist, or other licensed health care provider.
 
[. . .]
 
(D) The death or
significant injury of a patient or staff member resulting from a physical
assault that occurs within or on the grounds of a facility.
 
(7) An adverse event
or series of adverse events that cause the death or serious disability of a
patient, personnel, or visitor.
 
(c) The facility
shall inform the patient or the party responsible for the patient of the
adverse event by the time the report is made.
 
(Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1279.1.)
 
Here, it is alleged that Decedent
went to the bathroom by himself and went into cardiac arrest. (See SAC ¶¶ 18-19,
33-34, 69, 146.) This does not appear to be an adverse event as contemplated by
the statute. To the extent that subsection (7) applies, Susan alleges that she
was informed the day that the alleged restroom incident occurred and Susan,
herself, decided to “let [Decedent] go”. (See SAC ¶¶ 146, 150.) 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
c.       Seventh
Cause of Action (Constructive Fraud by Susan against PRMC)
 
PRMC argues that no fiduciary
duty exists between itself and Susan to create an action for constructive
fraud. PRMC highlights that its duty is to a patient under (Vistica v.
Presbyterian Hospital & Medical Center, Inc. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 465, 469
(“Vistica”) and Moore, supra, 51 Cal.3d at 131-132.)
 
Plaintiffs reiterate that Moore
is inapplicable. Plaintiffs further argue that Vistica is a red herring.
Plaintiffs believe the claim is properly pled due to PRMC’s alleged suppression
of facts which misled Susan.
 
The Court has analyzed PRMC’s
duty to Susan in the Sixth Cause of action, ante, and incorporates it as
written here. 
 
PRMC reiterates its arguments
from the moving papers and provides arguments regarding specificity in its Reply.
 
The Court, for the same reasons
above, does not address PRMC’s specificity arguments.
 
“A fiduciary must tell its
principal of all information it possesses that is material to the principal’s
interests. A fiduciary’s failure to share material information with the
principal is constructive fraud, a term of art obviating actual fraudulent intent.”
(Michel v. Moore & Associates, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 762.)
 
Here, there is an issue with the
existence of a fiduciary relationship.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Seventh Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
d.      Eighth
Cause of Action (Intentional Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC) and Ninth
Cause of Action (Negligent Misrepresentation by Susan against PRMC)
 
PRMC presents that Susan has no
standing to assert a claim for intentional or negligent misrepresentation as
there is no duty of disclosure to Susan. PRMC reiterates its previous citation,
argues these claims are duplicative of Susan’s previous claims, and highlights
that its duty was to Decedent. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that Decedent
passed and so PRMC could not disclose “only to Decedent.” (See Opp. 15:7-11.)
Plaaintiffs argue there is no requirement for a duty of disclosure for
intentional or negligent misrepresentation and misrepresentation is distinct
from Susan’s other pleaded claims.
 
In Reply, PRMC argues that
Plaintiff had knowledge of Decedent’s incident and death as pled in both the
Complaint and SAC. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Regarding intentional misrepresentation, “[a]
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false representation
by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable
reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.” (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816 [combining
misrepresentation and scienter as a single element]. Regarding negligent
misrepresentation, “[n]egligent misrepresentation is a separate and distinct
tort, a species of the tort of deceit. ‘Where the defendant makes false
statements, honestly believing that ey are true, but without reasonable ground
for such belief, he may be liable for negligent misrepresentation, a form of
deceit.’ ” (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 407.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged
that PRMC’s agents informed Susan that Decedent “was unresponsive, but could
‘snap out of it’ ” (SAC ¶¶ 146-147); that Decedent was “cleaned up” and looked
“fine” on January 4, 2022 (SAC ¶¶ 148); that there was no change from January 6
through 10, 2022 (SAC ¶ 149); that Decedent may snap out of it but would neve4r
be the same on January 11, 2022 (SAC ¶ 150); that there were issues with the
report (SAC ¶¶ 153-54); and they had been “ ‘with Ed every minute’ ” during the
incident (SAC ¶¶ 165-66). As to intent for intentional misrepresentation, “[f]raudulent
intent is an issue for the trier of fact to decide.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.) Plaintiffs have pled that Susan relied on such
representations, with some discussion of the position of both parties, and
would not have acted the way she did if informed otherwise. (See SAC ¶¶ 155,
157, 160-61,168, 170.) Plaintiffs have pled damages on behalf of Susan in the
form of emotional damage and the ability to investigate Decedent’s death. (See
SAC ¶¶ 159-61, 169-71.)
 
It appears that Plaintiffs have
met the elements for the Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action. Accordingly, the
Demurrer to the Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action are OVERRULED.
 
     
ii.           
Motion to Strike
 
PRMC seeks to strike punitive
damages from the SAC. PRMC presents that the language required for punitive
damages regarding ratification is found in the Fourth Cause of Action only.
Despite this, PRMC has provided argument for the Fifth through Ninth Causes of
Action. PRMC also provide arguments that Plaintiffs have not shown ratification
as required by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(b) and that Plaintiffs have failed
to plead facts related to oppression, fraud, or malice as the allegations
center around professional negligence.
 
Plaintiffs argue that malice,
fraud, and oppression have been adequately pled in various parts of the SAC. 
 
PRMC reiterates that the SAC is
devoid of ratification as needed under the statute for punitive damages and discusses
the application of Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (“MICRA”) in a case
such as this where Plaintiffs seek punitive damages stemming from medical
negligence. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 3294
provides, in relevant part:
 
An employer shall
not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation. 
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(b).)

 
Plaintiffs have sued PRMC and not
individual employees. As such, allegations regarding ratification are needed. 
 
The SAC states: 
 
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff
Susan Ekdahl prays for exemplary and punitive damages as against Defendants
PRMC and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, on the account of the alleged
fraudulent, malicious, and oppressive conduct of Defendants, as set forth
herein on the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Causes of action.
 
(SAC at Prayer.) 
 
Despite the language in the Prayer,
language reference punitive damages are found in the Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth
Causes of Action.
 
The relevant sections of the SAC
read: 
 
The acts, omissions
and conduct of Defendants, and each of them, as set forth herein, were
committed with deliberate indifference to the rights and safety of Decedent,
Edward A. Ekdahl, with conscious disregard for his rights and safety,
maliciously, oppressively, and/or fraudulently, all to the damage of Decedent,
Edward A. Ekdahl. As such, punitive and/or exemplary damages against
Defendants, and each of them, is appropriately awarded in an amount appropriate
to punish or set an example of said Defendants, and each of them, pursuant to
California Civil Code § 3294.
 
The acts, omissions,
and conduct of Defendants, inclusive, and each of them, as set forth above,
were authorized or ratified by one or more officers, directors or managing
agents of defendants PRMC, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive. Therefore,
exemplary damages are sought, and deserving, against PRMC, and DOES 10 through
20, inclusive, and each of them, in an amount sufficient to prevent such
conduct from being repeated in the future.
 
[. . .]
 
Defendants’ conduct
as described herein was despicable and was committed maliciously, fraudulently
and/or oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff via misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of material facts, thereby subjecting Defendants to
cruel and unjust hardship and with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of her legal
rights to their direct detriment and to the financial benefit of Defendants.
Plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an
amount to be proven at trial.
 
[. . .]
 
Defendants’ conduct
as described herein was despicable and was committed maliciously, fraudulently
and/or oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff via misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of material facts, thereby subjecting Plaintiff to cruel
and unjust hardship and with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of legal rights to
their direct detriment and to the financial benefit of Defendants. Plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an amount to be
proven at trial
 
[. . .]
 
Defendants, and each
of them, have acted with fraud and was committed maliciously, fraudulently
and/or oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff, Susan
Ekdahl with a willful and conscious disregard of her rights via
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of material facts, thereby subjecting
Plaintiff, Susan Ekdahl to cruel and unjust hardship and with the intent to
deprive Plaintiff of her full legal rights to her direct detriment and to the
financial benefit of Defendants. Plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive
and exemplary damages in an amount to be proven at trial.
 
[. . .]
 
Defendants’ conduct
as described herein was despicable and was committed maliciously, fraudulently
and/or oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff via
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of material facts, thereby subjecting
Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship and with the intent to deprive Plaintiff
of legal rights to their direct detriment and to the financial benefit of
Defendants. Plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages
in an amount to be proven at trial.
 
[. . .]
 
Defendants’ conduct
as described herein was despicable and was committed maliciously, fraudulently
and/or oppressively with the wrongful intention of injuring Plaintiff with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff via misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of material facts, thereby subjecting Plaintiff to cruel
and unjust hardship and with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of legal rights to
their direct detriment and to the financial benefit of Defendants. Plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an amount to be
proven at trial.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 95-95, 113, 137, 162,
173.) 
 
All causes of action except the
Fourth Cause of Action lack discussion of ratification as required by Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 3294(b). As such languages references punitive damages in the
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action are stricken,
 
Regarding the Fourth Cause of
Action, Plaintiffs have not pled any facts that would allow for an inference that
an officer, director, or managing director had knowledge of the SAC’s
underlying events and, moreover, ratified the conduct of PRMC’s employees. That
is, Paragraph 95 addresses the ratification requirement only in a conclusory
allegation,
 
Accordingly, references to
punitive damages within the Fourth Cause of Action are stricken.
 
Regarding MICRA, Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.13(a) regulates the pleading of a punitive damage claim against a
health care provider and provides in part: "In any action for damages
arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim
for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint . . . unless the court
enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive
damages to be filed." MICRA provides: “For the purposes of this section,
“health care provider” means any person licensed or certified pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code,
or licensed pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic
Initiative Act, or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section
1440) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health
dispensary, or health facility, licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing
with Section 1200) of the Health and Safety Code. “Health care provider” includes
the legal representatives of a health care provider.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
425.13(b).) PRMC is a health facility and, as such, MICRA applies. As the
California Supreme Court explained in Central Pathology Service Medical
Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 42 Cal.App.4th 181 (“Central
Pathology”), a plaintiff must make an evidentiary showing of a
"substantial probability" of prevailing on a punitive damage claim
before such a claim may be included in the pleading. (Central Pathology,
supra, 3 Cal.App.4th at pp. 189-190.) The Legislature created this
"pretrial hearing mechanism" to protect health care providers from
spurious punitive damage claims. (Ibid.)
 
In Central Pathology, a
patient sued a physician and a laboratory alleging they failed to notify her
she was developing cancer when a pap smear revealed the presence of abnormal
cells. The complaint alleged the laboratory fraudulently failed to notify her
she should be retested and the physician had denied using the laboratory to
cover up the malpractice. Plaintiff moved to amend the complaint to assert a
claim for punitive damages in her fraud cause of action, arguing Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.13 did not apply to intentional torts. The California Supreme Court
disagreed, holding the fraud count was "directly related to the manner in
which defendants provided professional services. The claim emanates from the
manner in which defendants performed and communicated the results of medical
tests, a matter that is an ordinary and usual part of medical professional
services. It is therefore governed by section 425.13(a)." (Central
Pathology, supra, 3 Cal. 4th at pp. 192-193.) "[I]dentifying a
cause of action as an 'intentional tort' as opposed to 'negligence' does not .
. . remove the claim from the requirements of section 425.13(a)." (Id.
at p. 192.) Instead, the trial court should examine the "allegations that
identify the nature and cause of a plaintiff's injury . . . to determine
whether each is directly related to the manner in which professional services
were provided." (Ibid.)
 
Here, MICRA applies to claims
related to Decedent’s care. However, Susan’s claims are separate. That is, MICRA
does not encompass Susan’s claims of misrepresentation against PRMC.
 
The Court notes that, while it
stated, “As the claims may be rectified, there is a potential basis for
punitive damages as the punitive damages are derivative of the proposed causes
of action,” as cited by Plaintiffs, it stated so within a tentative. The
tentative was provided to the parties prior to the hearing on the Motion for
Leave to Amend and is not part of the record, but summarized in order to
provide context to the Court’s analysis. The Court cautions Kazemi regarding
candor to the tribunal as the presentation that the Court stated this in a
Statement of Decision is not fully truthful. Plaintiffs must (1) follow the
proper procedure for including punitive damages in a pleading against a
healthcare provider, and (2) have rectified the deficiencies in their
pleadings. (See 07/01/2024 Statement of Decision.)
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is GRANTED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to
amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿
 
Plaintiffs have not shown that
there is any ability to correct the deficiencies within the causes of action to
which the Demurrer has been sustained. That is, based on the arguments
presented by the parties, Plaintiff provides no legal standard that would allow
a successful amendment regarding duty to her as Decedent’s spouse. As such, an
amendment would be futile.
 
Regarding punitive damages,
Plaintiffs must follow the proper procedure set out in statute for bringing
such a claim against a health care provider. 
 
Accordingly, the Court does not
allow leave to amend.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Lancaster Hospital
Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in
part as to the Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty by Plaintiff
Susan Ekdahl against Defendant Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale
Regional Medical Center), Sixth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Concealment by Plaintiff
Susan Ekdahl against Defendant Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale
Regional Medical Center), and Seventh Cause of Action (Constructive Fraud by Plaintiff
Susan Ekdahl against Defendant Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale
Regional Medical Center); and DENIED in part as to the Eighth Cause of Action
(Intentional Misrepresentation by Susan Ekdahl against Defendant Lancaster
Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center) and Ninth Cause of
Action (Negligent Misrepresentation by Plaintiff Susan Ekdahl against Defendant
Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center).
 
Defendant Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional
Medical Center’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED.