  Case Number:  22STCV013162    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR
COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
              Tuesday,
October 15, 2024
Department M                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 5
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ellen Vees v. Flood Air, Inc., et al.
            22STCV013162
1.      Matthew
Bourque’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for Business Records  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Matthew
Bourque’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for Business Records is granted,
in part, and denied, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
Ellen Vees filed the Complaint on April 25, 2022. This action arises from a
multiple vehicle motor vehicle accident that occurred on August 22, 2020, near
the intersection of Del Amo Boulevard and Van Ness Avenue in Torrance,
California. Defendants Flood Air Inc. and Eugene Flood allegedly owned the defendant’s
vehicle. The vehicle was being operated by Horacio Espino. Numerous complaints,
including one filed by moving party Matthew Bourque, and cross-complaints were
filed related to this incident and the actions were consolidated.
 
Motion
to Quash Third Party Subpoenas Duces Tecum
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(g) states: “Any consumer whose personal records are sought
by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this
subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a
motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum.” 
 
Pursuant
to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1:  “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
 
Cal.
Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a)(5) states:
“Except
as provided in (b), any motion involving the content of a discovery request or
the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.
The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: (5) To compel
or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a deposition.” 
 
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3,1345(b) states:
“A
separate statement is not required under the following circumstances:
(1)
When no response has been provided to the request for discovery; or
(2)
When a court has allowed the moving party to submit--in place of a separate
statement--a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.”
 
Pursuant
to CCP § 1987.1, Plaintiff Matthew Bourque moves for an order to quash the deposition
subpoenas for business records issued by Defendant Defendant Abzakh Automotive
Group, Inc. “Specifically, Plaintiff moves to quash the deposition subpoenas
identified as Order No. 6813604 seeking his medical records from the following:
A. McCormick Ambulance B. Torrance Medical Center Medical Center/Medical C.
Torrance Medical Center Medical Center/Business Office D. Torrance Medical
Center Medical Center/Radiology Dept.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 1-6).
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions for the fees and expenses in making this motion.

 
This
motion is made on the grounds that Defendant seeks private medical information
that has no relationship to the causes of action in this case, that the
subpoenas are overly broad, that the subpoenas are not designed to lead to the
discovery of relevant evidence, and that the subpoenas are not particularized. 
 
“The
state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal.
Const., art. I, §1.) Protection of informational privacy is the provision’s
central concern.”  Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion.”  Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3
Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
In
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37,
the California Supreme Court “established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy.  The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious. . . . . The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations.” Williams v. Superior Court, supra, 3
Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill, the Court “explained that
not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under article I, section 1 must be
overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A ‘“compelling interest”’ is still
required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.’”  Id. at 556.
 
Disclosure
depends upon balancing the need for discovery against the need for
confidentiality.  “Courts must instead
place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its
extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that
showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies,
as Hill requires.”  Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557. 

 
Discovery
of relevant medical history may be allowed because defendant may have no other
methods to obtain this type of information. 
See Palay v. Superior Court
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 919, 933-34 disapproved of on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.4th 531, 557, n. 8. 
However, the lifetime of plaintiff’s medical history may not be
discoverable.  Plaintiff's right of
privacy is protected as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to the
claim or injury sued upon. See Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d. 844, 864.
 
Plaintiff
freely acknowledges that during the meet and confer process the parties agreed
to the following: “the Parties agree to limit the scope of the medical records
to (1) ten (10) years prior to the date of loss (August 20, 2010) to present;
and (2) Plaintiff’s right knee, lumbar spine, cervical spine, right shin, right
hip, right foot. The only remaining issue is whether the scope of billing
records should be limited in scope from the date of loss to the present.”
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities, page 7, lines 18-22).
 
The
Court grants the motion for an order modifying the deposition subpoenas in
part. The subpoenas are modified to limit the scope of the medical records to
ten years prior to the date of loss to the present and limited to Plaintiff’s
right knee, lumbar spine, cervical spine, right shin, right hip, and right
foot. 
 
The
Court limits the scope of billing records from the date of loss to the present
and limited to the same bodily parts mentioned above. In balancing Defendant’s asserted
need for this private medical and financial information to a period of ten
years prior to the date of incident to the present against the Plaintiff’s assertion
of medical and financial right of privacy, the Court finds that Defendant is
not entitled to the requested information for the ten-year time frame.
Defendant has not adequately identified a compelling need for the vast time
frame requested. Defendant merely only speculates that billing records may
uncover more information about any pre-existing conditions that cannot be
obtained from the medical records. The Court will not grant what would
essentially constitute a fishing expedition into Plaintiff’s medical billing history
with the sheer speculation and hunch that billing records may provide
additional information that is not included in the medical records. If
Defendant can obtain more concrete information that may supplement or support
this “hunch,” potentially Defendant may be entitled to conduct additional
discovery on that issue. But, at this time, the Court orders the limitation
above as requested in the moving papers. 
 
Sanctions
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.2(a) states:
            “Except as specified in subdivision (c),
in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section
1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”
 
            Here, the Court determines that
Defendant did not oppose the motion in bad faith or without substantial
justification. While the Court did not ultimately agree with Defendant’s
position, the arguments in opposition were reasonable and there was an adequate
basis to proceed with the opposition and contest the motion on the merits.
 
            Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’
fees and expenses is denied.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.