 Case Number:  24STCP01531    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioners 4500 Buck
Owens Blvd., LP, Rao Ramanchandrarao Yalamanchili, and Positive Investments,
Inc.’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
Petitioners
4500 Buck Owens Blvd., LP, Rao Ramanchandrarao Yalamanchili, and Positive
Investments, Inc. petition the court to confirm an arbitration award against
respondents Brooklyn’s Barbecue 2, LLC and Vision Housing Venture Fund I
LLC.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 1286 provides, “If a
petition or response under” the California Arbitration Act “is duly served and
filed, the court shall confirm the award as made … unless in accordance with
this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the
award or dismisses the proceedings.”
Service
of Petition
Petitioner
duly served and filed this petition on respondents.  “A copy of the petition and a written
notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon
which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided in the
arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice.”  (CCP § 1290.4(a).)  If the agreement does not provide for a
manner of service, service “shall be made in the manner provided by law for the
services of summons in an action.”  (Id.,
subd. (b)(1).)    
The
arbitration agreement does not include a valid provision for service of
petitions or other notice.  The agreement
including the arbitration provision is a “restaurant kitchen lease agreement” between
petitioner 4500 Buck Owens Blvd., LP and Brooklyn’s Barbecue 2 LLC.  (Petition, Ex. A.)  Its provision for notice from lessor to
lessee is incomplete.  It states, “Until
further written notice to Lessor, all notices from Lessor to Lessee shall be
served or sent to Lessee at the following address: TENANT NAME AND ADDRESS.”  (Id., p. 5, ¶ 16.)  Petitioner therefore was required to serve
the petition and notice of the hearing on respondents in the manner provided by
law for service of summons.  
Petitioners
filed adequate proof of service on both respondents in the manner provided by
law for service of summons.  They show proper
service of the petition on respondent Brooklyn’s Barbecue 2 LLC.  “Summons or other process against a limited
liability company may be served by delivering a copy thereof to a manager,
member, officer, or person having charge of its assets or, if none of these
persons can be found, to any agent upon whom process might be served at the
time of dissolution.”  (Corp. Code, §
17707.07(b).)  
Records
of the California Secretary of State show Brooklyn’s Barbecue 2 LLC filed a
certificate of cancellation on March 1, 2024. 
Those records further show, at the time of dissolution, the registered
agent for service of process was Craig Troxler at 3535 Tapo St., Simi Valley,  CA 93063. 
The arbitration award also indicates he was a 50% member of the
LLC.  (Petition, Ex. B, p. 10.)  
Petitioners
filed proof of substituted service of the petition on Craig Troxler at the
address registered with the Secretary of State and a declaration of subsequent
mailing.  Petitioners also filed proof of
personal service on Troxler of the notice of hearing on the petition and the
proposed order.
Petitioners
show proper service of the petition on respondent Vision Housing Venture Fund I
LLC.  Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 416.30, a summons may be served via notice and acknowledgment of
receipt of summons.  Petitioners filed a
notice of acknowledgment of receipt of this petition on Judicial Council Form
POS-015 signed by a representative of respondent Vision Housing Venture Fund I
LLC, dated May 21, 2024.  
Merits
of Petition
The
petition complies with all requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section
1285.4.  It includes: (a) a copy of the
arbitration agreement (Ex. A), (b) the name of the arbitrator, Hon. Gerald
Rosenberg (Ret.), and (c) a copy of the award (Ex. B).  
Neither
respondent filed a response to the petition. 
“The allegations of a petition are deemed to be admitted by a respondent
duly served therewith unless a response is duly served and filed.”  (CCP § 1290.) 
Respondents therefore admit the petition’s allegations.  The court must confirm the award as made (CCP
§ 1286) and enter judgment in conformity with it (CCP § 1287.4).
Disposition
Petitioners
4500 Buck Owens Blvd., LP, Rao Ramanchandrarao Yalamanchili, and Positive
Investments, Inc.’s petition to confirm arbitration award is granted.  The
final award of: (a) $228,355.23 in attorney fees and costs to petitioners 4500
Buck Owens Blvd., LP, Rao Ramanchandrarao Yalamanchili, and Positive
Investments, Inc.; and (b) $7,132.79 in damages and $239,413.87 in attorney
fees and costs to respondent Vision Housing Venture Fund I LLC, issued by arbitrator Hon. Gerald
Rosenberg (Ret.) is hereby confirmed.  
Instead
of signing petitioners’ proposed order, the court will require petitioners to
submit a proposed judgment stating the amount awarded to each party.  Petitioners shall submit a proposed judgment
for the court’s signature forthwith.  The
court hereby sets an order to show cause re: entry of judgment for August 23,
2024, at 8:30 a.m.