 Case Number:  24STCV02799    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Rose Hills Company and
Mishelle Lin’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Defendants
Rose Hills Company a/k/a Rose Hills Memorial Park & Mortuary and Mishelle
Lin move to compel arbitration and stay this action by plaintiff Jae W. Lee.  
Plaintiff
opposes the motion solely by arguing the arbitration agreement is
unconscionable.  Unconscionability requires both procedural and substantive
unconscionability using a sliding scale. 
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 185.)  “Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.”  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  “Generally,
the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to show an arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.”  (Saheli
v. White Memorial Medical Center (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.)
A.
Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff
shows some procedural unconscionability. 
“ ‘Arbitration contracts imposed
as a condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v. Kozak (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).) 
“By itself, however, adhesion establishes only a ‘low’ degree of
procedural unconscionability.”  (Id.
at p. 907.)  Plaintiff establishes this
agreement was an adhesion contract.  He
provides evidence he was provided with many documents to sign along with the
agreement.  (Lee Decl., ¶ 4.)  On the other hand, the agreement itself was
not surprising or hidden.  It is a single
page titled, “Rose Hills Arbitration Agreement.”  (Castro Decl., Ex. A.)  Its terms are relatively
straightforward.  A reasonable person who
signed this agreement would not be surprised that it required him to arbitrate
claims arising out of his employment.
B. Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues the agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it “does not state anything about the arbitrator being
neutral or mutually selected by the parties” and “fails to address discovery.”  (Opp., p. 13.)  Generally, an agreement’s silence about
certain requirements does not make it substantively unconscionable.  Instead, those requirements are implied by
law.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 177 [“the absence
of express provisions …  allowing
discovery does not render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.  Rather, those terms are implied as a matter
of law as part of the agreement”]; Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113.)
The arbitration agreement provides that
controversies “shall be submitted to arbitration in Los Angeles, California,
before a sole arbitrator selected from” JAMS, “or if JAMS is no longer able to
supply the arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be selected from the American
Arbitration Association, and shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1280 et seq.”  (Castro Decl., Ex. A.)  JAMS and AAA both provide dispute resolution
services using neutral arbitrators.  The
agreement does not provide that the employer may unilaterally select the
arbitrator.  The agreement also does not
limit discovery.  Lacking express
provisions on these subjects does not make the agreement unconscionable.  
Plaintiff further argues the agreement is
unfair because it waives his right to an administrative proceeding before the
Civil Rights Department or Equal Opportunity Employment Commission.  Rather than expressly providing for such a
waiver, the agreement is silent about that.  “When an arbitration
provision is ambiguous, [courts] will interpret that provision, if reasonable,
in a manner that renders it lawful, both because of our public policy in favor
of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution, and because of the general principle that we interpret a
contractual provision in a manner that renders it enforceable rather than void.”  (Pearson Dental Supplies, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2010) 48 Cal.4th 665, 682.)  The
court therefore interprets the agreement as not limiting the employee’s ability
to initiate administrative proceedings. 
Even if it did, “the inclusion of a provision limiting resort to an
administrative forum does not render the arbitration agreement unconscionable
or unenforceable.”  (Ibid.)  The agreement is not substantively
unconscionable for this reason.
Finally, plaintiff argues the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it provides that plaintiff must pay his
employer’s attorney fees if it prevails. 
(Opp., p. 14.)  The agreement
provides, “Employee and Rose Hills further agree that in any proceeding to
enforce the terms of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
its or his reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs (other than forum costs
associated with the arbitration) incurred by it or him in connection with
resolution of the dispute in addition to any other relief granted.”  (Castro Decl., Ex. A.)  Defendants argue this provision applies only
to a proceeding to enforce the arbitration agreement, not the underlying
dispute.  Either way, it is substantively
unconscionable.  A provision requiring
“the party that resisted arbitration” to pay the other party’s fees “incur[red]
in compelling arbitration” is substantively unconscionable and unenforceable
because it violates “the FEHA asymmetrical rule of attorney fees.”  (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc. (2022)
75 Cal.App.5th 365, 377, review granted June 1, 2022, S273802.)
The court will sever this provision of the agreement.  “The strong legislative and judicial
preference is to sever the offending term and enforce the balance of the
agreement” unless the agreement is “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Lange v. Monster
Energy Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 453, internal
quotes, citations, and alterations omitted.) 
Unconscionability does not permeate the agreement.  It contains only one unconscionable
provision.  Moreover, as defendants
argue, they have not sought attorney fees incurred making this motion.  The court will therefore sever this provision
and preclude defendants from recovering attorney fees except under FEHA’s asymmetrical
fee standard.
Disposition
            Defendants Rose
Hills Company a/k/a Rose Hills Memorial Park & Mortuary and Mishelle Lin’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay proceedings is granted.  
The court hereby severs the following provision of the arbitration
agreement: “Employee and Rose
Hills further agree that in any proceeding to enforce the terms of this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to its or his reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs (other than forum costs associated with the
arbitration) incurred by it or him in connection with resolution of the dispute
in addition to any other relief granted.” 
(Castro Decl., Ex. A.)  
Plaintiff Jae W. Lee is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendants.  The court hereby stays the entire action pending resolution of the
arbitration proceeding.