 Case Number:  23AHCV01063    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



Elijah carder, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
T-MOBILE
   USA, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01063
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KAN INVESTMENT LTD LLC’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
   STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   16, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On May 10,
2023, plaintiff Elijah Carder (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
KAN Investment LTD LLC (“Defendant”) (erroneously sued as “South Pasadena
Heights Apartments”). On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), to which Defendant demurred; Defendant also moved to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. On April 19, 2024, the Court sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC and granted Defendant’s motion to strike with
20 days’ leave to amend. 
On May 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) asserting causes of
action for: (1) battery, (2) negligence, (3) nuisance, (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (5) breach of lease, and (6) breach
of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.
          Plaintiff
alleges that he was a tenant at the premises located at 435 Garfield Avenue,
Unit 307, South Pasadena, CA 91030 (the “Property”). The Property was leased to
him by Defendant and had a collection antenna which [Defendant] placed on the
outside wall of the premises at which [Plaintiff] was residing.” (SAC, ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
alleges he was exposed to excessive radiation emitted from this antenna. (SAC,
¶ 4.)  
          On
June 4, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike arguing that
Plaintiff’s SAC failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and was uncertain, vague, and ambiguous. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) 
A demurrer may also be brought if a
cause of action is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where the complaint
contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be
overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
As a
threshold matter, the Court addresses Defendant’s argument that the entire SAC
is preempted by federal law because it is based on alleged health effects from
radiofrequency levels that the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has
already determined to be safe. (Demurrer, p. 2.) As the Court observed in its previous minute order ruling on a demurrer brought by
now-dismissed defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc. (“T-Mobile”), if Plaintiff is contending that the
radiation emitted is “excessive” despite being within the FCC’s limits, then
Plaintiff’s claims are preempted. (Bennett v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (C.D.
Cal. 2008) 597 F. Supp. 2d 1050, 1052 [FCC’s determination of “optimal level of
safe [radiofrequency] emissions”
and licenses cannot be declared unsafe by jury].) Therefore, the Court
sustained T-Mobile's demurrer with leave to amend based on Plaintiff’s
representation in his opposition brief that he was, in fact, claiming that the
antenna’s emissions exceeded the FCC’s limit. (4/19/2024 Minute Order, p. 3.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff only argues
that Defendant is precluded from arguing that the matter is preempted because
Defendant did not raise this ground as a basis for its previous demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) However, whether a state action is preempted
by federal law is an issue of subject matter jurisdiction, which may be raised
at any time by any available procedure. (Boisclair v. Superior Court
(1990) 51 C3d 1140, 1144, n. 1.) Therefore, although Defendant did not
previously demur to Plaintiff’s Second and Third Causes of Action for
Negligence and Nuisance, Defendant did not waive its argument that the Court
lacks subject matter jurisdiction over this action. Furthermore, since
Plaintiff has not amended his complaint to add that the alleged emissions
exceeded the limits established by the FCC, Plaintiff’s claims are preempted. 
Plaintiff was already given an
opportunity to amend his complaint yet did not do so. Accordingly, the demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Since the Court sustains the demurrer to the entire SAC, the motion to strike
is moot. 
 V.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the SAC is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The motion to strike is MOOT. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 16th
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 