 Case Number:  23VECV00840    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV00840
Levine v Albright
 
Tentative
ruling: Motions to compel
 

Defendant’s
     motion to compel plaintiff to respond to form interrogatories:  Grant. 
     Plaintiff is ordered to provide full and complete answers to 17.1
     as to each request for admission response which was not an unequivocal admit.  Plaintiff asserts that “On February 5,
     2024, Plaintiff’s counsel served Plaintiff’s verified responses without
     objection to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two, thereby complying
     with her discovery obligations. Plaintiff’s compliance renders this matter
     moot.”  Plaintiff also states that “...Plaintiff
     has made it clear in her responses that she has responded with all the
     information available to her.”  The
     opposition states that “These responses were submitted without any
     objections, demonstrating our commitment to ensuring complete and timely
     compliance with our discovery obligations.”  To the contrary, no response was given.  The responses merely state: “(b) Facts,
     (c) Ppl with knowledge and (d) Docs + who has them.”  Under no circumstances can this be
     considered responses.  Instead, they
     are merely placeholders for the actual responses.  Indeed, it is unclear what plaintiff is
     verifying as true.  These are tantamount
     to no responses and are made in bad faith. 
     Accordingly, the court orders verified full and complete answers
     within 10 days as to Int. 17.1 for each RFA which is not an unequivocal admit.  Furthermore, the opposition is in bad
     faith as there were no answers provided. 
     Amazingly, the opposition states that the responses were made showing
     “our commitment to ensuring complete and timely compliance with our
     discovery obligations.”  This is
     untrue.  There was no explanation as
     to why no timely response was made and why these placeholders are
     sufficient for any reason.  The
     court finds that plaintiff’s counsel has acted in bad faith and without
     substantial justification and awards monetary sanctions against Levin
     & Nalbandyan, who signed the opposition and the “answers”, in the reasonable
     sum of $1,760 pursuant to CCP sections 2023.010 and 2030.290 payable to
     the Client Trust Account of Schumann Arevalo LLP, 30 Corporate Park, Suite
     100, Irvine, CA 92606 by 6/2/2024.

 

Defendant’s
     motion to deem request for admissions admitted:  Surprisingly, after defendant filed a served
     a motion to deem RFAs admitted when none had been served, plaintiff served
     her answers late and only after the motion was filed and asks the court
     for sanctions for this “unmerited motion.” 
     The motion has merit. 
     Request for admissions were served, no timely answers were given,
     the motion was filed.  There was no
     excuse for the late service or the need for a motion to compel.  It was clearly needed in order to prompt
     plaintiff to answer the request for admissions.  Plaintiff and her counsel’s conduct
     constitutes misuse of the discovery process pursuant to CCP section
     2023.010(d).  Accordingly, monetary
     sanctions are awarded against plaintiff and her counsel, Levin and Nalbandyan,
     LLP in the sum of  $1,972.50 as
     reasonable fees and costs payable by June 2, 2024 to the Client Trust
     Account of Schumann Arevalo LLP, 30 Corporate Park, Suite 100, Irvine, CA
     92606.  It should be noted that the
     answers to the RFAs were designated as answers to special interrogatories.
