  Case Number:  23AHCV02173    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



KRISTINA HOVAKIMYAN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02173
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER BY COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 3,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
September 19, 2023, plaintiff Kristina Hovakimyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on November 13,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was injured in a motor vehicle incident when
defendant Miguel Santoscoy (“Santoscoy”) negligently operated a motor vehicle
on June 7, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that Santoscoy was employed by co-defendants
City of Los Angeles and County of Los Angeles, and that the three defendants
owned and entrusted the vehicle to one another. On November 17, 2023, the City
of Los Angeles was dismissed from the complaint at Plaintiff’s request. 
          On January 16, 2024, County of Los
Angeles (“Defendant”) filed this demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff failed
to state that she complied with the Government Tort Claims Act. 
          On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
          On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief.
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) When
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)
III.    DISCUSSION
Prior to filing a suit against a public
entity, a plaintiff must comply with the Government Tort Claims Act, which
states, in part: “no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented . . .
until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 945.4.)  A claim for death or injury to person or personal
property shall be presented not later than six months after the accrual of the
cause of action.  (Gov. Code, § 911.2,
subd. (a).) The “failure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance
with the claim presentation requirement subjects a claim against a public
entity to a demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.”  (State
of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1237.)  “[S]ubmission of a claim to a public entity
pursuant to section 900 et seq. ‘is a condition precedent to a tort action and
the failure to present the claim bars the action’” (Phillips v. Desert Hospital Dist. (1989) 49 Cal.3d 699, 708), and
“failure to allege compliance constituted a failure to state a cause of action
and subjected a complaint to a demurrer” (State
of California, supra, 32 Cal.4th
at pp. 1242-1243).
The FAC is a form complaint and
Plaintiff did not check item 9a to indicate that she complied with the claims
statute or explain in item 9b why she is excused from doing so. Therefore,
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action against a public entity like
Defendant. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant should be equitably estopped from asserting the claims presentation
requirement as an affirmative defense. But Plaintiff does not submit any
evidence that factual circumstances dictate the application of equitable
estoppel, such as affirmative acts or statements by Defendant which would
mislead or prevent Plaintiff from filing a claim. (See K.J. v. Arcadia
Unified School District (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1229.) Therefore, this
argument is unavailing. 
Plaintiff also opposes the demurrer on
the grounds that Plaintiff’s cause of action against Defendant did not accrue
until sometime in July of 2023, when Plaintiff discovered that Santoscoy was
acting within the course and scope of his employment for Defendant at the time
of the accident and that Defendant would be providing insurance coverage. (Sogoyan
Decl., ¶¶ 13-17, Exs. 9-10.) Furthermore, Plaintiff submitted a prelitigation
claim on July 17, 2023, but the claim was rejected for untimeliness in a letter
dated August 2, 2023. (Id., Exs. 11, 13.)  
Plaintiff’s argument lacks merit because
if a claim is rejected as untimely, a plaintiff still must file an application
for leave to present a late claim before proceeding to filing suit in court.
(Gov. Code, § 911.4, subd. (a).) This application must be filed “within a
reasonable time not to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action
and shall state the reason for the delay in presenting the claim.” (Gov. Code,
§ 911.4, subd. (b).) 
Here, Defendant states – and Plaintiff
does not dispute – that no application to present a late claim has been filed.
Therefore, this suit is premature and the demurrer is sustained. 
Additionally, based on the existing
facts before the Court, there are no facts that may be alleged to show why
Plaintiff is excused from complying with the claim presentation requirement; the
lawsuit is precluded because it was not preceded by the rejection of an
application to present late claim. (Lowry v. Port San Luis Harbor District
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 211, 221 [no amendment allowed when suit is premature].) The
Court acknowledges that this may change if: (1) Plaintiff’s application is
denied and (2) Plaintiff subsequently acquires relief from the claims
presentation by petitioning the Court pursuant to Government Code section
946.6. But the Court will not issue an advisory ruling on a petition that has
not yet been filed. Accordingly, the Court does not grant leave to amend the
FAC.
IV.      CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend and Defendant is dismissed from this action
without prejudice. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of June
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 