  Case Number:  23PSCV02386    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  H Chen, et al. v. Cao, Case
No. 23PSCV02386
ORDER ON DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER
Defendant Ruzhuan Cao’s Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to Plaintiff Chen)
and OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to Plaintiff Han). At the hearing, the Court
will hear from Plaintiff Chen as to whether leave to amend is requested and if
so, will require an offer of proof.
 
Background
Plaintiffs Yuzheng Chen (“Chen”) and Jixian Han (“Han”)
(together, “Plaintiffs’”) allege that Han and Ruzhuan Cao (“Defendant”) signed
a house rental agreement on April 6, 2019 and that Defendant thereafter sublet
the house to Xu Wenxiang for Airbnb or commercial use.
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting a breach of
contract cause of action against Defendant and Does 1-5.
A Case Management Conference is set for January 22,
2025. Pending before the Court is Defendant’s demurrer to the Operative
Complaint.

 
Legal Standard
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that, inter
alia, there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or that the pleading
is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (d)-(f).)
“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however,
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts
impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co.
v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)
 
Discussion
Defendant
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f),
to the Operative Complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant also
demurs to the complaint per subdivision (d) on the basis of misjoinder of
parties.
A review of Defendant’s
demurrer reflects that it is directed as to Plaintiff Chen only and not as
to Plaintiff Han. (See Dem., 3:9-10 [“However, the FAC is fatally defective
and uncertain as it fails to show Plaintiff YUZHENG CHEN’s standing to sue for
Breach of Contract. . .”], 3:12-13 [“As such, Movant Defendant submits that the
claim for Breach of Contract should be dismissed as to Plaintiff YUZCHENG CHEN
without leave to amend”]; footnote one, page 3 [“The issue regarding Plaintiff
CHEN’s standing was already adjudicated during the MSJ proceeding in the
Previous Case”]; 4:21-22 [“CHEN has no standing to sue for breach of contract.
As such, the within Motion should be granted without leave to amend s to
Plaintiff CHEN”]; 4:23 [“The Issue Re: CHEN’s Lack of Standing Was Determined
In The Previous Case”] and 5:3 [“the Court should apply the doctrine of Res
Judicata on the issue regarding Plaintiff CHEN’s lack of standing to sue”].
“A statement of a cause
of action for breach of contract requires a pleading of (1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.” (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte Constr.
Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887, 913.)
Further, the essential elements of a contract
include (1) parties capable of contracting; (2) their consent; (3) a lawful
object and (4) a sufficient cause or consideration. (Civil Code § 1550.)
Plaintiffs
have alleged that “Jixian Han and Ruzhuan Cao signed a house rental agreement
on 4/6/2019. . .” (FAC, p. 3). Chen is not identified as a party to the
contract; accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the Operative Complaint is
sustained as to Chen only. Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to Han.
As an aside, the Court
declines to consider Defendant’s argument that the Court should apply the
doctrine of res judicata on the issue regarding Chen’s lack of standing to sue
and denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice. “Issue preclusion prohibits
the relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even if the
second suit raises different causes of action. Under issue preclusion, the
prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue actually litigated and determined
in the first action.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th
813, 824.) “[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final adjudication (2) of an
identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first
suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in
privity with that party.” (Id. at 825.) Defendant has not made a
sufficient showing regarding the existence of these factors.
Accordingly,
the Court sustains the demurrer as to Chen and overrules the demurrer as to Han.
The Court is disinclined to grant Chen leave to amend but will hear from Chen
in this regard at the hearing; if leave to amend is requested, the Court will
require an offer of proof.