 Case Number:  24PSCV00597    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff Londo Welding, Inc. dba
Welding Certification Center’s Application for Default Judgment is DENIED
without prejudice. 
Background 
Plaintiff Londo Welding, Inc. dba Welding Certification
Center (“Plaintiff”), a private welding
school, alleges that Gilbert Chavez (“Defendant”) breached a written agreement to pay Plaintiff $9,304.00 to attend Plaintiff’s comprehensive
welding program. 
 
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action
against Defendant and Does 1-50 for breach of written contract.
On
July 16, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Defendant.
 
Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s Application for
Default Judgment.
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
Application for Default Judgment is denied without prejudice. The following
defects are noted:
1.       Plaintiff has failed to dismiss Does 1-50 or to submit “an application for separate judgment against specified parties under Code of
Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each
judgment,” pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1800(a)(7).
2.       Vanessa Londo’s (“Londo”) declaration is deficient. Londo’s
declaration is not made based
on personal knowledge. Londo does not attest that she is the duly authorized
custodian of records or is otherwise qualified and has authority to certify the
records. The Agreement attached thereto has not been authenticated.
 
3.       Attorney’s
fees must be re-calculated in compliance with Local Rule 3.214.
 
4.       Plaintiff
is directed to provide an interest calculation pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
3.1800(a)(3).
 
5.       Plaintiff
is directed to provide the Court with an account summary reflecting
payments made and the amount outstanding, to the extent one exists.
Accordingly,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s application without prejudice and directs
Plaintiff to submit a new default judgment packet that addresses the
aforementioned issues. 