 Case Number:  24PSCV00420    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  H Borrayo, et al. v. Mojica, Case No. 24PSCV00420
 
Defendant Elsa Moreno Mojica’s Motion
to Set Aside Default is DENIED. 
 
Background
Plaintiffs Adriana Moreno Borrayo and Jose Ruben
Moreno Mojica (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
Plaintiffs’ sister, Elsa Armida Moreno Mojica (“Mojica”),
falsified Plaintiffs’ mother’s signature on a quitclaim deed involving the
property located at 1295 Cornelia St. in Pomona (the “subject property”). On
January 25, 2024, Mojica sold the subject property.
On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting a fraud cause of
action against Mojica.
On
April 17, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Mojica.
An
Order to Show Cause Re: Default Judgment is set for October 15, 2024. Pending
before the Court is Mojica’s motion to set aside default.

 
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties . .
.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
Discussion
Mojica
moves the court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), for an order
setting aside the April 17, 2024 entry of default.
Mojica
seeks mandatory relief pursuant to an attorney affidavit of fault. Mojica’s counsel
John R. Ramos (“Ramos”) represents that when he first consulted with Mojica,
she advised him that she had never been served with the summons and complaint
(Ramos Decl., 3:15-16); that he appeared in San Bernardino Superior Court on
March 29, 2024 to object to Plaintiffs’ petition to be appointed as
administrators of their mother’s estate (Id., 3:18-20); that the San
Bernardino court subsequently dismissed the probate proceeding there (Id.,
3:21-22); that Plaintiffs filed a new probate petition in the Los Angeles
Superior Court, the hearing of which was continued to October 26, 2024 (Id.,
3:22-25); that he reviewed the ledger in this case and erroneously believed
that Plaintiff’s request for entry of default had been rejected on April 17,
2024 (Id., 3:26-28); and that he filed a demurrer to the complaint on Mojica’s
behalf based on this mistaken belief (Id., 4:2-8).
The
foregoing information suggests to the Court that there is no attorney mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect under the circumstances here, because Mojica
is apparently contending that she was never served with the summons and
complaint (although no supporting declaration has been submitted in this
regard); if true, then there would be no deadline for filing a responsive
pleading on Mojica’s behalf in the first instance. The Court declines to grant
relief on the basis of attorney affidavit of fault. The motion is denied.
That
said, in light of the fact that the motion was unopposed, at the hearing, the
Court will inquire of the parties whether they are willing to stipulate to
vacate the default as to Mojica.