 Case Number:  23CHCV01080    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  F51  FEBRUARY 8, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01080    Demurrer Filed: 9/29/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Raymundo Galvan, Sr. (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Edgar Galvan (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs against Plaintiff’s entire first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, second,  fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action, and sustained as to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action with 30 days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    This is a  quiet title action in which Plaintiff alleges that in October 2013, he entered  into an oral agreement with Defendant, his father, “that the subject property  located at 14316 Raven Street, Sylmar, CA 91342 (“Property”) would be purchased  in Defendant’s name, given Plaintiff’s poor credit score, but that despite  being in Defendant’s name, would be considered to be Plaintiff’s house for all  purposes.” (FAC ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that the parties “agreed that  Plaintiff would live in the Property, would pay the Property’s taxes, mortgage  and all other costs associated with owning a Property.” (Ibid.)  Plaintiff alleges “that Defendant would not be responsible for any of the costs  or expenses given that it would merely be in his name for Title purposes.” (Ibid.)  “However, just recently, in December 2022, Plaintiff was suddenly told by  Defendant that he needs to vacate the Property as Defendant intends to sell it.”  (Id. at ¶ 24.)   On 4/13/23,  Plaintiff filed his original complaint against Defendant, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of  Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Fraudulent/Intentional Misrepresentation; (4)  False Promise; and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. On  08/25/23, Plaintiff filed his operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), adding  a cause of action for Quiet Title against Defendant.   On 9/29/23,  Defendant filed the instant demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. On 1/29/24, Plaintiff filed  his opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the basis that Plaintiff fails to allege  facts to constitute any of the causes of action contained therein.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that on 9/18/23,  9/20/23, 9/28/23, and 9/29/23, he attempted to contact Plaintiff’s counsel to meet  and confer regarding the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but the parties  were unable to come to an informal resolution. (Decl. of Wilfred Trivino-Perez  ¶¶ 4–5.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the  preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Quiet  Title   An action  for quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or  personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd.  (a).) In an action for quiet title, Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description  of the property that is the subject of the action,” specifically the location  of tangible personal property and the legal description and street address or  common designation of real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to  which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,”  (3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a  determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is  sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination of the title of the  plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)   Here,  Defendant argues that “this cause of action is devoid of the required  information to constitute a valid cause of action.” (Dem. 9:13.) Plaintiff  argues in opposition that the “FAC describes the subject Property to be ‘located  at 14316 Raven Street, Sylmar, CA 91342’ (FAC, ¶ 12), and describes in detail  the method of vesting of title to the Plaintiff (FAC, ¶¶ 13-23), the adverse  claims to Plaintiff’s title (id.), and further identifies October 2013  as the approximate month/year at which time Plaintiff bought the subject  Property from his aunt and took on all financial and non-financial  responsibilities related to owning said Property.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:4–8, citing  FAC ¶¶ 12–23.)   Upon review  of the FAC, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the  description of the subject property, that the title thereto vested to Plaintiff,  and Defendant’s adverse claims to Plaintiff’s title. (FAC ¶¶ 12–23.) The Court  notes that Defendant failed to file a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action for Quiet Title. Accordingly, the demurrer to  Plaintiff’s first cause of action is overruled.   C.    Breach  of Contract   The second  cause of action in Plaintiff’s FAC alleges Breach of Contract against  Defendant. To state this cause of action, a plaintiff must be able to establish  “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,  821.) “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it  is rarely possible to allege the exact words.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   Here,  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s “allegations are simply insufficient to  describe the alleged agreement at issue and fail to constitute a valid cause of  action.” (Dem. 10:17–19.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that the requisite  elements are pled in paragraphs 28, 30, 32, and 33 of the FAC, where Plaintiff  alleges that “in or around October 2013, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into  an oral agreement and agreed amongst themselves that the subject Property would  stay in Defendant’s name, given Plaintiff’s poor credit score, but that despite  being in Defendant’s name, would be considered to be Plaintiff’s house for all  purposes.” (FAC ¶ 28.) “During the entire time in question, Plaintiff paid all  taxes, utilities, maintenance and any other costs associated with the subject  Property. … Additionally, Plaintiff has continuously exercised 100% ownership  of the subject Property since the date of acquisition.” (Id. at ¶¶  32–33.) “In December 2022, close to ten years after the oral contract had been  entered into between the parties, Plaintiff was suddenly told by Defendant that  he needs to vacate the Property as Defendant intends to sell it, breaching the  oral agreement between the parties” and causing Plaintiff harm. (Id. at  ¶¶ 40–41.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to  satisfy each element constituting a cause of action for Breach of Contract.   1.       Statute of Frauds   An oral  agreement made “for the leasing for a longer period than one year, or for the  sale of real property, or of an interest therein” is invalid absent a written  and signed “note or memorandum thereof.” (Civ. Code § 1624, subd. (a)(3).) “No  estate or interest in real property, other than for leases for a term not  exceeding one year, nor any power over or concerning it, or in any manner  relating thereto, can be created, granted, assigned, surrendered, or declared,  otherwise than by operation of law, or a conveyance or other instrument in  writing, subscribed by the party creating, granting, assigning, surrendering,  or declaring the same, or by the party’s lawful agent thereunto authorized by  writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1971.)   Here,  Defendant argues that “any oral agreement of rightful ownership to Plaintiff  was invalid because such an agreement would have to be in writing pursuant to  the statute of frauds.” (Dem. 10:2–3.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that “exceptions  to the Statute of Frauds exist here and Defendant is equitably estopped from  asserting the Statute of Frauds. Moreover, the part performance exception also  applies here.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:7–8.)   “The  doctrine of estoppel to assert the statute of frauds has been consistently  applied by the courts of this state to prevent fraud that would result from  refusal to enforce oral contracts in certain circumstances. Such fraud may  inhere in the unconscionable injury that would result from denying enforcement  of the contract after one party has been induced by the other seriously to  change his position in reliance on the contract, or in the unjust enrichment  that would result if a party who has received the benefits of the other's  performance were allowed to rely upon the statute.” (Monarco v. Lo Greco  (1950) 35 Cal.2d 621, 623–624 [internal citations omitted].)   Part  performance of an agreement takes the agreement out of the statute of frauds,  at least in part, for purposes of equitable enforcement of the agreement. (Matheron  v. Ramina Corp. (1920) 49 Cal.App. 690, 694.) Part performance is founded  in estoppel and looks to estoppel principles for its application. (Sutton v.  Warner (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 415, 422.) “Under the doctrine of part  performance, the oral agreement for the transfer of an interest in real  property is enforced when the buyer has taken possession of the property and  either makes a full or partial payment of the purchase price, or makes valuable  and substantial improvements on the property, in reliance on the oral  agreement.” (Ibid.)   Here,  Plaintiff argues that “Defendant is equitably estopped from asserting the  statute of frauds defense, because Plaintiff made valuable and substantial  improvements to the Property, made mortgage payments each month on the  Property, made $30,000 in late mortgage payments that the prior owner had not  paid to the bank and was behind on, paid all taxes and insurance costs on the  Property, . . . etc., all based solely on the oral contract for the sale of the  Property.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:19–23, citing FAC ¶ 39.) Plaintiff further argues that  “as Plaintiff performed the part of the contract that he was obligated to do,  the Court must deem the oral agreement between the parties enforceable.” (Id.  at 8:13–14, citing FAC ¶ 58.)   The Court  agrees, and finds that as outlined above, Plaintiff has alleged facts to  support exceptions to the statute of frauds based on both doctrines of estoppel  and part performance. The Court again notes that Defendant failed to offer a  reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Breach of Contract against Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s  second cause of action is overruled.   D.    Breach  of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against Defendant a breach of the implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Every contract contains an implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to  interfere with the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the  agreement. (Howard v. American Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187  Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature and extent of the duty depends on the  nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the parties’ legitimate  expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied  covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract … and breach of a specific  provision of the contract is not … necessary to a claim for breach of the  implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v.  The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)    However,  “if the allegations [of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing] do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying  on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already  claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as  superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v.  Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that by breaching the oral agreement between the parties, “Defendant’s  conduct has prevented Plaintiff from receiving the benefits under the  agreement. In engaging in the conduct abovementioned, Defendant did not act  fairly and in good faith.” (FAC ¶ 47.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third  cause of action fails because “plaintiff has once again mirrored the same  conduct that Plaintiff claims constitutes a breach of contract in the context  of the Second Cause of Action.” (Dem. 10:27–28.) Plaintiff argues in opposition  that “Defendant’s actions in trying to evict Plaintiff from his own Property, and  the need to file the subject lawsuit, has certainly injured Plaintiff from  fully receiving the benefits of the agreement.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:28–9:2.)   Upon review  of the FAC, the Court finds that the underlying factual allegations relied upon  in Plaintiff’s third of action are identical those alleged in his second cause  of action for Breach of Contract. (FAC ¶¶ 37–40, 43–47.) Accordingly, the Court  sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.   E.     Fraudulent/Intentional  Misrepresentation; False Promise   Plaintiff’s  fourth and fifth causes of action respectively allege Fraudulent/Intentional  Misrepresentation and False Promise against Defendant. “One who willfully  deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his position to his injury  or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.” (Civ. Code §  1709.) The elements that must be pleaded in a cause of action for fraud are:  (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment or nondisclosure);  (2) knowledge of its falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to  induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Philipson  & Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 363.) Fairness requires  that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can  weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Small  v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity  requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where, to whom,  and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior  Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that in October 2013, “Defendant made false representations  to Plaintiff that the Property would stay in Defendant’s name, given  Plaintiff’s poor credit score, but that despite being in Defendant’s name,  would be considered to be Plaintiff’s house for all purposes” (FAC ¶¶ 20, 49.)  Plaintiff further alleges “when Defendant made the representations that it  [sic] understood that it [sic] did not have any right in the ownership of the  Property, he knew that the representations were false when they were made, or  that these representations were being made recklessly and without regard for  its truth.” (Id. at ¶ 51.) “Plaintiff reasonably relied on Defendant’s  representations and has been making all mortgage payments, as well as all other  costs associated with owning the subject Property since an Agreement was  entered into,” and was thereby harmed by Defendant’s alleged false  representations. (Id. at ¶¶ 53–54.)   Defendant  argues that “Plaintiff has not alleged with specificity, detail and free from  ambiguity. Moreover, he has failed to assert any factual allegations with  sufficient detail, including the substance of misrepresentation.” (Dem. 13:16–19.)  Based on the factual allegations, the Court disagrees, and finds that Plaintiff  has alleged facts with sufficient particularity to constitute causes of action  for Fraudulent/Intentional Misrepresentation and False Promise against  Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s fourth and  fifth causes of action.   F.     Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress   Plaintiff’s  sixth cause of action alleges Defendant Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional  infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be  outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated  in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,  1009.) A mere allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress,  without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred  as a result of the defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a  cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v.  City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct as  alleged above, including but not limited to telling Plaintiff that Plaintiff  was the owner of the subject Property and that Defendant understood that he had  no legal right to it, therefore inducing Plaintiff to pay all mortgage  payments, tax payments, and all other related costs necessitated by the  ownership of the Property as he was under the assumption that he owned the  Property, only to be told that he had to leave his house and his Property would  be sold.” (FAC ¶ 68.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant, without  Plaintiff’s knowledge, “made deceitful statements to Plaintiff’s ex-girlfriend  making her believe that Plaintiff no longer wished to have her on the title of  his Property” while she was a co-title holder to the subject property. (Ibid.)  “As a direct and proximate result of the aforementioned acts, Plaintiff has  suffered humiliation, extreme mental anguish, embarrassment, extreme emotional  and physical distress and has suffered sleeplessness, anxiety, headaches,  depression and other physical discomforts.” (Id. at ¶ 66.)   Defendant  argues that “here, Plaintiffs’ [sic] allegations are insufficient to show  outrageous conduct or the required intent. Rather, the allegations appear to be  in the vein of a breach of contract that was alleged to have taken place  resulting in economic damages.” (Dem. 14:15–17.) Plaintiff argues in opposition  that he sufficiently alleged Defendant’s outrageous conduct by alleging that “Plaintiff  purchased a home and complied with all of his obligations, including making  mortgage payment, taking care of the Property, paying its taxes and other  costs, etc. only to be told that he has no right in the Property and must  vacate it. Statements made by not a stranger, but rather his own father.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 11:4–6.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that at the demurrer stage, Plaintiff has  alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress against Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer  is overruled as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action.   G.    Leave  to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v.  YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Here,  Plaintiff asserts that “to the extent that the Court considers any of  Defendant’s arguments to be viable, Plaintiff requests leave to amend the FAC  in order to plead additional facts in support of his allegations.” (Pl.’s Opp.  11:27–28.) The Court further notes that this is the first demurrer heard  against Plaintiff’s operative complaint. Accordingly, under the Court’s liberal  policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to  amend his FAC to cure the defects set forth above. Plaintiff is cautioned that  “following an order sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff  may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court's order. … The  plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without  having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within  the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019)  33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, second,  fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action, and sustained as to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action with 30 days leave to amend.