 Case Number:  22STCV19263    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Mudsyan v. Daniyelyan
22STCV19263
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to
Provide Further Response to Form Interrogatories (Set One) 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to
Provide Further Response to Special Interrogatories (Set One) 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to
Provide Further Response to Requests for Production (Set One) 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan to
Provide Further Response to Requests for Admission (Set One) 


Tentative
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel Defendant to provide
further responses to Form Interrogatories 15.1, 16.2, and 16.3.
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel Defendant to provide further
responses to Request for Production No. 16.
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions.
The Court CONTINUES the hearings on the motion to compel
Defendant to provide further responses to special interrogatories and on the motion
to compel Defendant to provide further responses to special interrogatories for
approximately 14 days, pending service of the verification of the most recent
version of the further responses provided by Defendant’s counsel.
Background
This case arises out of an automobile
accident on September 17, 2020, on Brand Boulevard near the intersection of
Maple Street in Glendale.  According to
the Complaint, Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian (“Decedent”) was walking along the
sidewalk on Brand Boulevard when two moving vehicles collided, then made impact
with a parked vehicle, and then hit and killed him.
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Fyona
Mudsyan, Nigoghos Nigoghos, Anita Sarkeesian-Asadorian, and the Estate of
Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian by and through its Successor-In-Interest Fyona
Mudsyan (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint against Defendants Akop Daniyelyan, Ovsep Daniyelyan (collectively, the
“Daniyelyans”), Alejandro Garcia, Mariana Garcia (collectively, the “Garcias”),
Glendale Dodge, LLC (“Glendale Dodge”), and Does 1 through 100.  Plaintiffs asserted causes of action for (1)
Negligence, (2) Negligence Per Se, (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision
and/or Retention, and (4) Negligent Entrustment.  Subsequently, on
November 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting
the same four causes of action against the same defendants.
On August 15 and September 1, 2022, the
Garcias filed their answers.  The Garcias
also each filed a cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans and Moes 1 through
50.  Subsequently, on July 29, 2024, the
Garcias filed an amended cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans, Glendale
Dodge, and Roes 1 through 100.
On December 19, 2022, the Daniyelyans
filed an answer to the FAC.  The Daniyelyans
also filed a cross-complaint the Garcias, Glendale Dodge, and Zoes 1 through
50.
On December 20, 2022, Glendale Dodge filed
an answer to the FAC.  Glendale Dodge
also filed a cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans and Roes 1 through 100.
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff Fyona Mudsyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed these four motions: (1) to compel Defendant Akop Daniyelyan
(“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One);
(2) to compel Defendant to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set One); (3) to compel Defendant to provide further responses to Requests for
Production (Set One); and (4) to compel Defendant to provide further responses
to Requests for Admission (Set One). 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
Defendant filed oppositions of May 22 and 23, along with his
own requests for sanctions.  Plaintiff
filed replies on May 28.
The hearings were initially scheduled for June 4 and 5 and
were continued to August 8 so that the parties could participate in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC).
At the conclusion of the IDC on July 30, Defendant agreed to
provide further responses by August 9, and the Court continued to hearings to
August 19.   
On August 19, the Court called this matter, spoke to counsel,
and continued the hearings to August 23. 

On August 23, the Court called this matter, spoke to counsel,
and continued the hearings to September 16 to give Defendant an additional
opportunity to supplement his responses.
On September 3, Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration
updating the Court on the status.
On September 16, 2024, the Court called this matter, spoke to
counsel, and continued the hearings to September 25 to give Defendant a final opportunity
to supplement his responses.
On September 19, Defendant filed a supplemental declaration in
support of his opposition to the motions to compel.  
On September 23, Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration,
and then an updated supplemental declaration in reply.  
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  (2) A representation of inability to comply
is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides,
in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that
any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
In September 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with discovery,
including form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for
production, and requests for admission. 
Defendant requested and obtained several extensions and then served
objection-only responses on January 2, 2024.
The parties met and conferred, and Defendant repeatedly promised
to provide further responses but never did so. 
Plaintiff filed these four motions on May 6, 2024.
Defendant finally provided verified, substantive responses on
May 21.  Plaintiff deemed some of the
responses not code compliant and some of the remaining objections to be without
merit.  
The parties participated in an IDC on July 30.  At the conclusion of the IDC, Defendant
agreed to provide further responses by August 9, and the Court continued to
hearings on these four motions to August 19.  

At the hearings on August 19, Defendant informed the Court
that he had not provided further responses by August 9 and that counsel was
still working with the client (who is incarcerated) to provide further
responses.  The court continued the
hearings to August 23.
On August 22, one day before the continued hearing date,
Defendant informed the Court that further responses had been served.  The hearing was continued, and then continued
again.
On September 17, Defendant served further responses to the
requests for admission, but they are not verified.  (Martz Decl., Exh. G.)  On September 20, Defendant served further responses
to some of the form interrogatories, but they are also not verified.  (Second Kosoyan Decl. Dated September 23,
2024, Exh. 5.)  Nonetheless, Plaintiff states
that (subject to receiving the verification), the response to Form Interrogatory
17.1 addresses the issues raised by Plaintiff. 
(Id., ¶ 4(c).)
Plaintiff has stated that the proposed, unverified responses provided
by Defendant’s counsel to the Special Interrogatories and Requests for
Admission address all issues raised by Plaintiff and that, as a result, the
motions to compel as to these sets of discovery will be taken off calendar once
verifications are provided.  (First Kosoyan
Decl. Dated September 23, 2024, ¶¶ 4, 8.)
The Court has given Defendant multiple opportunities to comply
with the Civil Discovery Act, taking into consideration the fact that Defendant
is incarcerated in a remote location that makes communication between Defendant
and his counsel difficult.  Nonetheless, Defendant
has now had approximately one full year to respond, trial is scheduled to begin
soon, and Plaintiff is entitled to code-complaint discovery responses, regardless
of Defendant’s circumstances. 
For the sake of clarity, the Court is working off of the following
discovery responses, which the Court understands to be the most recent versions
of the responses to each set of requests: (1) Defendant’s further responses to
form interrogatories served on August 22 (not the unverified responses to some
of the form interrogatories served on September 20); and (2) Defendant’s further
responses to requests for production served on August 22.
Form Interrogatories
Plaintiff initially moved to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11,
2.12, 2.13, 4.1, 4.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 13.1, 13.2,
14.1, 14.2, 15.1, 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5, 16.6, 16.7, 16.8, 16.9, 16.10,
17.1, 20.1, 20.2, 20.3, 20.4, 20.5, 20.6, 20.7, 20.8, 20.9, 20.10, and 20.11.  
After Defendant served three sets of verified further responses,
the following requests remain at issue: Form Interrogatories 15.1, 16.2, and 16.3.  (See First Kosoyan Decl. Dated September 23,
2024, ¶ 6 & Exh. 2; Second Kosoyan Decl. Dated September 23, 2024, ¶ 4(c).)
Form Interrogatory 15.1
In this form interrogatory, Plaintiff asks Defendant to
identify each denial of a material allegation and each affirmative defense in
his answer; for each, Defendant is to state all supporting facts, identify
witnesses, and identify supporting documents.
Defendant’s objections are overruled.  Defendant’s response is not code
compliant.  The motion to compel a
further response to this interrogatory is granted.
Form Interrogatory 16.2
In this form interrogatory, Plaintiff asks Defendant whether
he contends that plaintiff was not injured in the incident.  If so, Defendant is to Defendant is to state
all supporting facts, identify witnesses, and identify supporting documents.
Defendant’s objections are overruled.  Defendant’s response is not code
compliant.  The motion to compel a
further response to this interrogatory is granted.
Form Interrogatory 16.3
In this form interrogatory, Plaintiff asks Defendant whether
he contends that the injuries or the extent of the injuries claimed by plaintiff
were not caused by the incident.  If so,
Defendant is to Defendant is to state all supporting facts, identify witnesses,
and identify supporting documents.
Defendant’s objections are overruled.  Defendant’s response is not code
compliant.  The motion to compel a
further response to this interrogatory is granted.
Requests for Production
Plaintiff initially moved to compel further responses to Requests
for Production Nos. 1-29. 
After Defendant served two sets of verified further responses,
the following request remains at issue: Request for Production No. 16.  (See First Kosoyan Decl. Dated September 23,
2024, ¶ 7 & Exh. 4.)
Request for Production No. 16
Plaintiff asks Defendant to produce his cellular telephone
record (including calls or text messages made or sent or received) for the period
from one hour before to one hour after the accident.
Defendant begins by asserting objections.  The objections are overruled.
Defendant then states that he has made a “diligent search and
reasonable inquiry,” that he is “not in possession, custody, or control of any
such documents,” and therefore he will not produce any documents in response to
the request.
That response is not code compliant.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230 is
very specific.  It provides that when a party
responding to a request for production is unable to comply, the responding
party “shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.”  Defendant has done
so.  But the responding party must “also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”  Defendant has not none this.  
The response is not code
compliant.  The motion to compel a further
response to this request for production is granted.
Sanctions
When a court grants a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for production, the court
must also impose a sanction “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response …, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d)
& 2031.310, subd. (h).)  
Defendant has not
acted with substantial justification in asserting meritless objections, delaying,
providing responses that are not code compliant, making empty promises that further
responses would be forthcoming, and forcing Plaintiff to file and litigate
these motions to compel for months to get simple responses to basic discovery.  Nor would it be unjust to impose sanctions under
these circumstances, particularly in light of attorney time that these motions
have required and Defendant’s substantial delay in providing responses.  
The Court sets
sanctions on each of the two motions in the amount of $1,560, calculated based
on five hours of attorney work multiplied by a reasonable billing rate of $300
per hour for work of this nature, plus a $60 filing fee.  (See Sultanyan Decls., ¶¶ 8-9.)
Defendant’s requests for
sanctions are denied.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel Defendant to provide
further responses to form interrogatories.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide verified, written, code
compliant responses, without objection, to Form Interrogatories 15.1, 16.2, and
16.3 within 10 days of notice.
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel Defendant to provide further
responses to the requests for production.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide verified, written, code
compliant responses, without objection, to Request for Production No. 16 within
10 days of notice.
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Defendant and counsel of record Robert L.
Reisinger, Jorge Lopez Herrera, and Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar, jointly
and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff under the Civil Discovery
Act in the total amount of $3,120 ($1,560 per motion, multiplied by two
motions) within 30 days of notice.
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion to compel
Defendant to provide further responses to special interrogatories for
approximately 14 days, pending service of the verification of the most recent
version of the further responses provided by Defendant’s counsel. 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion to compel
Defendant to provide further responses to special interrogatories for
approximately 14 days, pending service of the verification of the most recent
version of the further responses provided by Defendant’s counsel.
Moving party to give notice.