 Case Number:  23STCV24624    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Preciado v. Suastegui
23STCV24624
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference
TENTATIVE
The motion is granted.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 10, 2023, Timoteo O. Preciado (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Diana Rodriguez Suastegui, Diego Alquicira (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25 for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of an accident occurring on January 19, 2023.  On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
On January 5, 2024, Defendants filed their answer to the FAC.
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for trial preference.
No opposition has been filed.
The motion came on for hearing on August 28.  The Court continued the hearing to allow moving
party to submit a declaration satisfying the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (c)(1). 

Plaintiff submitted a supplemental declaration shortly after the
hearing on August 28.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a) provides:
“A party
to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference,
which the court shall grant if it makes both of the following findings:
(1)  The party
has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.
(2)  The
health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” 
A motion for a preference must be “supported by a declaration of
the moving party [stating] that all essential parties have been served with
process or have appeared.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (c)(1). 
The motion may be supported by a declaration by the attorney for the party
seeking the preference “based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)
“Upon the
granting of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for
trial not more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance
beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion for preference except for
physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good
cause stated in the record.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any continuance shall
be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”  (Ibid.)
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks an order for
trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a)
based on his age and health.
Plaintiff’s counsel has
submitted a declaration that states that Plaintiff is 78 years old and has
severe issues with back pain (and other issues) and can barely walk. 
(Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 2-3 & Exh. A.)  Epidural injections and
chiropractic treatment have had minimal effect.  (Id., ¶¶ 3, 5 & Exhs.
A, C.)  Two neurosurgeons have recommended surgery.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-5
& Exhs. B, C.) 
The motion for a trial
preference is not opposed.
The Court finds, on this
record, that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this action and that,
given Plaintiff’s health, a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing
Plaintiff’s interest in the litigation. 
With the supplemental declaration
filed on August 28, Plaintiff has now fulfilled the requirement of Code of
Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (c)(1), that a party seeking a
preference submit a declaration stating “that all essential parties have been
served with process or have appeared.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd.
(c)(1).  
All substantive and
procedural requirements are satisfied. 
The motion is granted.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for preferential
trial setting.
 
The date of trial is advanced and reset to
January 17, 2025, at 8:30 am, in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final Status Conference is advanced and
reset to __________________ at 8:30 am, in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery deadlines are reset based on
the new trial date.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.