 Case Number:  22STCV09569    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Eckstein v. Collins
22STCV09569
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s
Counsel Armin Abazari, Esq. and Law Offices of Sharona Eslamboly Hakim
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On March 18, 2022, Estate of Ronnie Drake
Eckstine, by and through his Successor in Interest, Edward Eckstein, and Helen
Daisy Moreno filed a complaint against William Anthony Edward Collins for
general negligence and motor vehicle negligence causes of action arising out of
an automobile accident occurring on March 20, 2020.
Notice of settlement was filed in this matter
on December 4, 2023.
On August 5,
2024, Armin Abazari, Esq. and Law Offices of Sharona
Eslamboly Hakim (“Counsel”) filed this motion to be relieved as counsel
for Helen Daisy Moreno (“Plaintiff”). No opposition has been filed. The hearing
was continued to September 25 due to service issues.
 
Counsel filed a
new motion on August 28, also set for hearing for September 25.
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel states
that that there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship;
Counsel has been unable to confirm Plaintiff’s current address, but has mailed
the motion papers with return receipt requested to Plaintiff’s last known
address, has called Plaintiff, has hired a private investigator, and texted
Plaintiff.
The Court finds
Counsel has shown due diligence in attempting to determine Plaintiffs current
address for proper service and has shown good cause for being relieved based on
the breakdown of the attorney-client relationship.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
 
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED. The order is
effective upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the
signed order (not just the minute order) on the clients.
 
Moving counsel
to give notice.