 Case Number:  22STCV24812    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Thomas v. Robles
22STCV24812
Defendant’s Discovery Motion
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On August
2, 2022, Micheal Thomas and Chase Thomas filed a complaint against Rafael Ramos
Robles, the City of Los Angeles (“City”), and Does 1 through 50 for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an accident occurring
on November 8, 2021. Chase Thomas is a minor (DOB 8/4/12), and the application
of Micheal Thomas to serve as his guardian ad litem (GAL) for Chase was granted
on August 15, 2022. 
On October
18, 2022, City filed its answer and a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through
10. 
On August
5, 2024, Plaintiffs’ former representation was relieved.  The Court advised Micheal Thomas (orally at
the hearing, and in the Minute Order) that, without counsel, he cannot represent
Chase Thomas; new counsel for Chase Thomas will need to be retained, or the causes
of action filed on his behalf will need to be dismissed without prejudice.
On August
8, 2024, City filed this discovery motion. 

No
opposition has been filed.
Discussion
 
Every motion must (among other
things) clearly and concisely state the basis for the motion and the relief
sought. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1112(d).)  This motion does not do so.  The motion is labeled as a “Motion for Order
to Compel Request for Admissions Deemed Admitted,” which itself is confusing
and appears to combine, improperly, two sets of inconsistent relief (a motion
to compel a response and a motion for a deemed-admitted order).  The body of the motion adds to the confusion,
as it references an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for production – but says nothing at all
about requests for admission.  Taken
together, the title of the document and the body of the motion fail to give
Plaintiff Micheal Thomas fair notice of the relief sought.  On that basis, the motion is denied without
prejudice.
 
The Court also notes that if City
seeks to refile, a separate motion should be filed for each set of discovery as
to which relief is sought.  It is
improper to file a single motion to compel responses to multiple sets of
discovery.
 
Conclusion
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Moving
party to give notice.