 Case Number:  21STCV23287    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Townsend v. Macavinta21STCV23287Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend.TentativeThe motion is continued.BackgroundThis action arises out of a motor vehicle accident on June 27, 2019, at or near Rinaldi Street in Porter Ranch.  On June 23, 2021, Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Einna Marie Altarejos Macavinta, Maribel Altarejos (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023.The Court has received information that Plaintiff died on September 21, 2023.On March 12, 2024, a motion was filed to substitute a successor in interest, Karma Townsend (“Karma”), Plaintiff’s only child.  (Chun Decl., ¶ 5.)  Karma is a minor (DOB 10/7/2008).On May 2, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the motion to May 23, pending appointment of a guardian ad litem for Karma.  On May 23, the Court continued the hearing again to July 22.  As a result of a cyber attack on the Los Angeles County Superior Court, the hearing was continued to August 28. On three occasions (March 12, May 3, and July 9), applications for appointment of a guardian ad litem for Karma were submitted.  All were rejected, and notice was mailed to Plaintiff’s counsel.  The motion came on for hearing on August 28.  After hearing from counsel, the Court continued the matter to September 25, pending appointment of a guardian ad litem.A new application for appointment of a guardian ad litem was filed on September 19 and remains pending.Legal Standard“A cause of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.)  After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) The person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death; (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)DiscussionSince the time of the filing of the complaint, Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend has died. In light of his death, his son, Karma appears to be his successor in interest.The Declaration of David Estey includes:(1) the decedent’s name, Jarrett Townsend;(2) the date of Plaintiff’s death, September 21, 2023;(3) that Petitioner is the legal guardian of Karma Townsend;(4) that there is no proceeding now pending in California for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate;(5) that Karma Townsend is the only child of Plaintiff and lone successor in interest;(6) that no other person has a superior right to be substituted in for Plaintiff;(7) and Petitioner declares these statements are true under penalty of perjury.Petitioner also attaches copy of death certificate to this motion. (Exh. 1.) Petitioner also includes the guardianship documents. (Exh. 2.)Because Karma is a minor, a guardian ad litem must be appointed.  So far, however, the past applications for appointment of a guardian ad litem have been rejected, and an application filed late last week remains pending.Therefore, the Court again CONTINUES Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest.ConclusionThe Court CONTINUES Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest for Plaintiff.Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.