  Case Number:  23STCV26388    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



J.P., an individual;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EASTERN REVENUE, INC., a California Corporation; EMMANUEL UNIVERSITY,
  INC., a Georgia Corporation; KYLE SHANAHAN, an individual; MATT MCREE, an individual,
  JOANN S. HARPER, an individual; and DOES 1-30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV26388
 Hearing Date:   6/18/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion
  to Recover Expenses Incurred in Serving Defendants, Reasonable Attorney Fees
  & Filing Fees (California Code of Civil Procedure S 415.30(d)) [Res ID #
  4281]; and
Plaintiff’s Motion
  for an Order to Compel the Deposition of PMK for Eastern Revenue, Inc. and to
  Produce for Inspection Any Document, Electronically Stored Information, or
  Tangible Thing and Request for Sanctions Against Defendant Eastern and Its
  Attorney Marcus Dong, Jointly and Severally [Res ID # 4456].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff J.P. (Joseph
Parker) sues Defendants Eastern Revenue, Inc. (Eastern Revenue), Emmanuel
University, Inc. (Emmanuel University), Kyle Shanahan (Eastern Revenue’s
President), Matt McRee, Joann S. Harper, and Does 1-30 pursuant to an October
30, 2023, Complaint alleging claims sounding in fraud, unfair business
practices, and breach of contract.
The Court briefly notes
that the face of the Complaint does not specifically identify Plaintiff’s
counsel now before the Court as the counsel referred to in the pleadings—i.e., Shiloh
A. Parker, Esq., Plaintiff’s spouse. However, attachments to the Complaint show
that Eastern Revenue and Shanahan have served documents on “Shiloh Angel
Bentacourt” as counsel for Plaintiff. Bentacourt thus appears to be an
alternative surname for Shiloh A. Parker, Esq.
B. Motion to Recover Expenses,
Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (d)
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion to recover expenses incurred in serving Defendants Eastern Revenue,
Shanahan, and Emmanuel University.
On June 5, 2024, Defendants Eastern
Revenue and Shanahan filed a joint opposition.
On June 6, 2024—one court day
late—Emmanuel University filed an opposition.
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply to the June 5 opposition. The reply does not address Emmanuel
University’s opposition.
Plaintiff’s motion is now before
the Court.
C. Motion to Compel Person Most Qualified (PMQ)
Deposition and Request for Sanctions
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff served
a notice of deposition on Eastern Revenue for the April 29, 2024, deposition of
Eastern Revenue’s person most knowledgeable. The notice contains seven topics
of deposition and 29 requests for production.
On April 24, 2024, Eastern Revenue
served objections to the deposition notice, declaring unavailability on the
noticed deposition date of April 29, 2024, and objecting without any
substantive response to the seven topics of deposition and 29 requests for
production.
That same day, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel the deposition of Eastern Revenue’s PMQ and request for
sanctions against Eastern revenue and counsel, jointly and severally.
On June 5, 2024, Eastern Revenue
filed an opposition, and on June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
Plaintiff’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
II. Motion to Recover Expenses, Code Civ. Proc., §
415.30, subd. (d)
A. Legal Standard
A summons may be served by mail to
the person to be served as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.30.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
If a person to whom a copy of the
summons and of the complaint are mailed pursuant to section 415.30 fails to
complete and return the acknowledgement form set forth in subdivision (b)
within 20 days from the date of such mailing, the party to whom the summons was
mailed shall be liable for reasonable expenses thereafter incurred in serving
or attempting to serve the party by another method permitted by this chapter,
and, except for good cause shown, the court in which the action is pending,
upon motion, with or without notice, shall award the party such expenses
whether or not he is otherwise entitled to recover his costs in the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (d).)
B. Analysis
1. Motion
to Recover Expenses, Defendants Eastern Revenue and Shanahan: GRANTED as
to Eastern Revenue but DENIED as to Kyle Shanahan.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
as to Defendant Eastern Revenue but DENIES the motion as to Defendant Kyle
Shanahan.
a. Kyle
Shanahan
The Court agrees with the
opposition’s argument that Plaintiff’s expenses in serving the summons and
Complaint on Kyle Shanahan on April 16, 2024, are not recoverable as moot.
(Mot., p. 3 at § A.)
While the notice of acknowledgment
documents were mailed around November 27, 2023 (Mot., Parker Decl., Ex. B), the
case had been removed to federal court on December 15, 2023, and was not
remanded until March 8, 2024, and by March 22, 2024, as argued by Eastern
Revenue and Kyle Shanahan, these Defendants had made general appearances by,
for example, posting jury fees, thus making service redundant. (Roy v.
Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 341 [“A defendant who has not
yet answered has been held to have made a general appearance … if he invokes
the authority of the court on his behalf, or affirmatively seeks relief”].)
The $105 in claimed costs for
service in relation to Kyle Shanahan, the associated attorney’s fees in
relation to that service, and the fees and costs in relation to this motion are
thus not reasonable and thus not awardable as against Defendant Kyle Shanahan.
Plaintiff’s motion is thus DENIED
as to Defendant Kyle Shanahan.
b. Eastern
Revenue
Plaintiff has presented evidence that
then-counsel for Defendant Eastern Revenue was served with summons by mail around
October 30, 2023, as provided for in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.30.
(Mot., Parker Decl., Exs. C [Eastern Revenue]; see Reply, p. 2 at § A.)
Plaintiff has also presented
evidence that Defendant Eastern Revenue did not timely respond to the request
for notice of acknowledgment, requiring Plaintiff to employ an alternate method
of service on November 30, 2023, prior to removal on December 15, 2023. (Mot.,
Parker Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. A [proof of service].)
This evidence entitles Plaintiff to
relief pursuant to section 415.30, subdivision (d).
The Court does not find merit in
the opposition arguments.
First, the Court does not find
merit in the opposition’s argument that Plaintiff did not mail the notice of
acknowledgment to Eastern Revenue. (Mot., p. 3 at § A.) Prior to sending the
notice of acknowledgment to defense counsel, Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed with
Richard J. Perr—Eastern Revenue and Shanahan’s prior defense counsel—that Perr
still represented Eastern Revenue and Shanahan, with Perr replying in the
affirmative. The Court finds this satisfies the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 416.10.
Moreover, Eastern Revenue and Kyle
Shanahan fail to point to authority supporting their arguments that Plaintiff
also needed to mail the summons to Eastern Revenue directly or exhaust all
methods of confirming service by mail prior to using other methods of service. (Mot.,
p. 3 at § A.) No such language appears in section 415.30, subdivision (d).
Third, the Court does not find
merit in the opposition’s argument that Plaintiff is unable to recover fees for
work expended by his spouse as counsel.
Defendants Eastern Revenue and Kyle
Shanahan rely on Cohen v. American Credit Bureau, Inc. (2012) 2012 WL
847429 *1, *12 (Cohen), an unpublished New Jersey federal district court
ruling, which is not binding on this Court although it may be persuasive. (People
v. Leal (Jul. 25, 2023) 93 Cal.App.540 1143, 1157, fn. 1 [While
“‘[California courts] are bound by decisions of the United States Supreme Court
interpreting the federal Constitution [citations], [they] are not bound by the
decisions of the lower federal courts even on federal questions,” [though]
“they are persuasive and entitled to great weight’”], citing People v.
Bradley (1969) 1 Cal.3d 80, 86.) Moreover, Cohen is distinguishable.
Cohen involved entitlement to fees under cost-shifting statutes (Cohen,
supra, at p. *12), such as the Fair Employment and Housing Act and the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act in California. (See Marron v. Superior
Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1065 [defining fee-shifting statute].) Similar
authority exists in California. (See, e.g., Flannery v. Prentice (2001)
26 Cal.4th 572, 584-586 (Flannery).)
In contrast, however, here,
expenses in the form of costs and attorney’s fees are sought pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 415.30, subdivision (d), which is not a
cost-shifting statute, but rather, a general sanctions type statute like those
in the Discovery Act.
Fourth, the Court finds no merit to
the comparison to allowable costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5
and relief under section 415.30, subdivision (d). Defendants Eastern Revenue
and Kyle Shanahan provide no authority in support for this argument. Moreover,
this argument is belied by the polar opposite timing of relief requested under
these statutes, i.e., costs to the prevailing party after judgment versus
expenses incurred in relation to service at the onset of the case.
Last, the Court determines that the
costs sought are reasonable as to the service fees, attorney’s fees related to
service, and fees related to drafting this motion and appearing at the hearing in
relation to Eastern Revenue.
Plaintiff’s motion is thus GRANTED
as to Defendant Eastern Revenue in the amount of $3,110.
However, the Court notes that the
award is imposed as against Eastern Revenue alone, not current counsel Marcus
Dong, which the opposition admits is a more recent counsel on the matter and
was not the counsel on whom service by mail was attempted.
2. Motion
to Recover Expenses, Defendant Emmanuel University: GRANTED or, in the
alternative, CONTINUED.
Here, the opposition by Defendant
Emmanuel University was filed one court day late on June 6, 2024. The
opposition raises a factually valid basis to deny the motion; specifically,
that the attorney served, Daniel Cohen, was not authorized to accept service. Despite
seemingly valid service attached to the opposition, no reply to the Emmanuel
University opposition appears in the record, and no arguments in response to
Emmanuel University’s opposition appear in the reply on file. It is not clear
whether Plaintiff had adequate notice of the opposition. The Court is therefore
inclined to deny the motion as to Emmanual University, but will consider continuing
the hearing if Plaintiff contends there is a basis for a reply.
 
III. Motion to Compel Deposition and Request for
Sanctions
A. Motion to Compel Deposition:
DENIED.
1. Legal
Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].)
If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).)
If the proposed deponent made some
response to the deposition notice, then a separate statement must accompany any
motion to compel deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (b).)
2. Analysis
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion, without prejudice, for various reasons.
First, as argued by the opposition
(Opp’n, p. 2), Plaintiff’s motion does not contain a meet and confer
declaration or a declaration establishing a follow-up with Eastern Revenue
following the April 24, 2024, objections. The only declaration attached to the
moving papers is a declaration from counsel relating procedural history up to
Eastern Revenue’s service of objections to the deposition notice. Plaintiff
filed this motion that same day. (Mot., Parker Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)
Second, Plaintiff has filed a
motion with points and authorities that are cursorily brief and do not provide
much detail on why each of the requested topics of deposition or requests for
production is proper and warrants an order compelling the requested deposition
and production. (Mot., 3:22-25 [entirety of substantive argument]; see Reply,
2:17-19 [same].) Third, neither did Plaintiff file a separate statement despite
the fact that objections were served here. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(b).) The purpose of the separate statement is to streamline adjudication
of discovery motions. (Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871,
893 (Mills).) Lacking the detailed information for the merit of the
many topics of discussion and requests for production, the Court lacks
sufficient grounds to grant relief as identified in the moving papers.
Last, and related to the preceding
paragraph, the moving papers fail to elaborate good cause for production.
(Mot., 3:22-25 [entirety of substantive argument]; see Reply, 2:17-19 [same].) This
omission shows failure to meet the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(1). Moreover, the opposition raises good
faith objections to some of the categories requested, which are not rebutted in
the reply. (Opp’n, 3:3-18; Reply, 2:2-23.)
The Court briefly notes that though
the second and third bases discussed above are not raised in the opposition,
they constitute violations of an additional two of four statutory/court
authorities that must be satisfied for the Court to grant the relief requested.
Relief is inappropriate under these circumstances.
B. Request for Sanctions: DENIED.
1. Legal
Standard
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
2. Analysis
The request for sanctions is DENIED
in line with the Court’s ruling on the motion to compel deposition. 
IV. Conclusion
A. Motion to Recover Expenses, Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd.
(d)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Recover Expenses Incurred in Serving Defendants,
Reasonable Attorney Fees & Filing Fees (California Code of Civil Procedure
S 415.30(d)) [Res ID # 4281] is GRANTED in part, DENIED in part, and CONTINUED
in part, as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to Defendant Eastern Revenue, Inc. in the amount of
$3,110;
(2) DENIED as to Defendant Kyle Shanahan; and
(3) DENIED or, in the alternative, CONTINUED as to Defendant Emmanuel
University, Inc.
The Court orders Defendant Eastern Revenue, Inc. to remit payment of $3,110
to Plaintiff J.P. within 10 days of this order.
B. Motion to Compel PMQ Deposition and Request for Sanctions
Plaintiff ‘s Motion for an Order to Compel the Deposition of PMK for
Eastern Revenue, Inc. and to Produce for Inspection Any Document,
Electronically Stored Information, or Tangible Thing and Request for Sanctions
Against Defendant Eastern [sic] and Its Attorney Marcus Dong, Jointly and
Severally [Res ID # 4456] is DENIED.