  Case Number:  23CHCV00689    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49Date: 6/17/24Case Name: James Hoseiniv. Reza Abad; AidenBohlouli; Teza Products,Inc.; and Does 1-50Case # 23CHCV00689LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH VALLEY DISTRICTDEPARTMENT F49JUNE 17, 2024MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT AIDEN BOHLOULI’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONSLos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00689Motion filed: 5/3/24MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Aiden Bohlouli (“Bohlouli” or the “Moving Defendant/Cross-Defendant”)RESPONDING PARTY: NoneNOTICE: OKRELIEF REQUESTED: An order from this Court to compel Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant James Hoseini’s (“Hoseini” or “Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant”) responses, without objection, to Bohlouli’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, and to impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $4,750.00.TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is DENIED. The request for monetary sanction is DENIED.BACKGROUNDThis action stems from alleged fraud by joint venture partners.On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against Defendants Reza Abad, Bohlouli, Teza Products, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1-50. Subsequently, on March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against all Defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) breach of written contract, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) elder abuse, (5) accounting, and (6) constructive trust. Subsequently, on April 24, 2023, Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC, and filed their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff.On April 24, 2023, Defendants filed their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Roes 1 to 20, which was subsequently amended on September 1, 2023, to include Teza Doors, Inc., as ajoinder. This operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) alleges the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) conversion, (3) constructive trust, and (4) permanent injunction.On May 3, 2024, the Moving Defendant/Cross-Complaint filed the instant Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP”), Set Two (the “Motion”).No Opposition papers have been received by the Court.ANALYSISIf a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) The party that fails to timely respond waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product, unless the Court, on motion, determines that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance, and (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)“A party filing a motion, except for a motion listed in rule 3.1114, must serve and file a supporting memorandum. The court may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion or special demurrer is not meritorious and cause for its denial and, in the case of a demurrer, as a waiver of all grounds not supported.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).)“The memorandum must contain a statement of facts, a concise statement of the law, evidence and arguments relied on, and a discussion of the statutes, cases, and textbooks cited in support of the position advanced.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(b).)A. Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set TwoThe Court notes with concern that the arguments presented in the moving papers do not sufficiently address the pertinent discovery issues. Although the Motion’s headings suggest it relates to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to respond to the RFP, Set Two, the actual content unexpectedly shifts focus to “Special Interrogatories (“SROG”), Set Two.” (Mot., at pp. 4-5.) Additionally, the Moving Defendant/Cross-Complainant elaborates on challenges faced in obtaining “interrogatories at-issue” from Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, emphasizing that “has been unable to review any verified responses to the Interrogatories.” (Mot., at pp. 7-8.) (Underlines added.) This shift in focus dilutes the relevance and coherence of the discussion, moving away from the stated subject – RFP, Set Two, and Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s failure to respond.Furthermore, the Motion contains an erroneous citation of statute on page 4, where it claims, “A party to whom requests for production have been directed shall respond separately to each interrogatory within 30 days of service[.][citing ‘Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.260(a).’])(Underlines added.)” Unfortunately, this reference is incorrect as Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.260, subdivision (a) does not apply to “interrogatories, ” affecting the arguments’ credibility.Additionally, the Motion includes sections not pertinent to the discovery issues at hand. For instance, pages 5 to 7 are devoted to critiquing Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s allegation in the FAC. Specifically, under the heading “5. HOSEINI PREVIOUSLY MOVED TO QUASH A SUBPOENA THAT ABAD SERVED ON INDEPENDENT PARALEGAL, MOSES ABONAL, FORCING ABAD TO FILE OPPOSITION TO THE MOTION, AND THEN HOSEINI TOOK THE MOTION OFF-CALENDAR IMMEDIATELY BEFORE THE HEARING MONTHS LATER” (Mot., at p. 5), this section is deemed irrelevant.The Motion also presents inconsistencies that cloud the basic facts, notably regarding the dates of service for the RFP, Set Two, at issue. The “Statement of Facts,” the Motion claims that the RFP, Set Two, was served on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant on March 26, 2024. (Mot., at p. 3.) Yet, there is contradictory evidence from the Moving Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s counsel’s declaration, stating, “On February 26, 2023, I caused ... Requests for Production, Set Two, to be served by email upon Plaintiff[.]” (Cohen Decl., ¶ 2.) These conflicting dates contribute to the confusion and compromise the reliability of the Motion’s assertion.Given these observations, the Court determines that the memorandum is challenging to follow and fails to adhere to the standards outlined in California Rules of Court rule 3.1113. Such deficiencies compel the Court to view this filing as an admission that the motion is not meritorious and cause for its denial. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).)Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the Motion.B. Monetary SanctionsThe Moving Defendant/Cross-Complainant has also requested monetary sanctions against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c).Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c), “The Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust[.]”However, since the Court has already denied the Motion, the Moving Defendant/Cross-Complainant is not a prevailing party and therefore does not qualify for an award of the mandatory sanction under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c).Therefore, the Court DENIES the Request for Monetary Sanctions.CONCLUSIONDefendant/Cross-Complaint Aiden Bohlouli’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two, is DENIED.Defendant/Cross-Complaint Aiden Bohlouli’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.