 Case Number:  22STCV08749    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



KATHERINE
  SUMMERS,
                        Plaintiff, 
            vs.
 
 
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 22STCV08749
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,
   INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  JANUARY 2, 2025
TIME:  8:30 A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: MARCH 10, 2022
TRIAL
  DATE: APRIL 28, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
On March 10, 2022, Plaintiff
Katherine Summers (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Honda”), Gary Pietrzak (“Pietrzak”), and Does 1 to 100 (collectively
“Defendants”) alleging one cause of action for negligence. The complaint arises
from an April 11, 2020, motor vehicle accident from which Plaintiff allegedly
suffered injuries when Defendants, due to negligent maintenance, operation, and
ownership of a motor vehicle, collided with Plaintiff’s motor vehicle.
(Complaint ¶¶ 5-7.)
On June 6, 2024, the matter was reassigned to the Honorable
Judge Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24,
2024.
On October 11, 2024, Honda filed the
instant motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint.
On December 19, 2024,
Plaintiff filed their opposition. 
On December 27, 2024, Honda filed their reply.
 
II.      
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Honda moves for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot establish
Honda’s vicarious liability for Pietrzak’s alleged negligence; and (2) Plaintiff's
claim is barred as a matter of law by the Graves Amendment. (49 U.S.C. § 30106)(Motion
p. 6.)
 
III.      
LEGAL
STANDARDS 
Burden on Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication 
In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met
his or her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) 
A moving defendant may
satisfy the initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be
established by “presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff's cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v.
Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [it is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) “The defendant must present evidence,
typically in the form of factually devoid discovery responses, showing that
plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.) 
Unless and until a defendant
meets that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting
evidence. (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468 [“There is no obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything
by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts
establishing every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be
denied, even if the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer
any evidence. 
On the other hand, if the
defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
IV.      
DISCUSSION 
Judicial Notice
            Honda’s October
11, 2024, request for judicial notice of relevant excerpts of American Honda Finance
Corporation’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ending on March 31, 2024, is
granted. (Cal. Evid. Code §§ 451, 452, and 453.)
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s December 19, 2024, evidentiary objections are overruled
as to Nos. 1, 2, and 3. Pietrzak has sufficient personal knowledge of his
employment terms and benefits with Honda. (Cal. Evid. Code § 702.)
 
Defendant’s Burden 
Honda meets its initial
burden. 
Honda moves for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot establish
Honda’s vicarious liability for Pietrzak’s alleged negligence; and (2)
Plaintiff's claim is barred as a matter of law by the Graves Amendment. (49
U.S.C. § 30106)(Motion p. 6.)
 
Vicarious
Liability
Honda argues that Plaintiff’s cause
of action for negligence against Honda fails as a matter of law because
Plaintiff cannot prove Honda’s vicarious liability for Pietrzak’s alleged
negligence. (Motion p. 11.) Plaintiff claims that Honda owed her a legal duty to use due care
because Pietrzak was acting in the course and scope of his employment with
Honda at the time of the collision. (Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement
of Facts “PR-SSF” No. 17; Exh. D [Plaintiff’s responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, No. 2].)
To succeed on a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant owed a legal duty to plaintiff to use
due care; (2) defendant breached that duty; (3) defendant’s breach was the
actual or proximate cause of plaintiff’s harm; and (4) plaintiff suffered
damages as a result. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318; Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917.) “[V]icarious liability for torts is imposed by operation of law upon
employers for acts of their employees within the course and scope of
employment, or upon principals for the acts of their agents.” (Chee v.
Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1375.) “Employers
have been held liable for the wrongful and unauthorized acts of their employees
where they were committed in the course of a series of acts of the agent which
were authorized by the principal.” (Thorn v. City of Glendale (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1379, 1382.) Employers may be vicariously liable for injuries
caused by employees’ torts resulting or arising from pursuits of employers’
interests. (Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11
Cal.4th 992, 1005.)
Honda argues that it cannot be vicariously
liable for Pietrzak’s conduct because Honda did not employ Pietrzak. Instead,
Pietrzak was employed by American Honda Finance Corp. (“AHFC”), a separate
entity from movant American Honda Motor Co. (PR-SSF No. 4; Pietrzak Decl. ¶ 4.)
Honda further argues that, during the underlying incident, Pietrzak was not
acting within the course or scope of his employment with AHFC. Pietrzak was
employed as a Projects Lead for AHFC, where his main responsibilities included
leading, managing, and training a team of project managers for loan origination
software applications. (PR-SSF No. 5; Pietrzak Decl. ¶ 4.) His job did not
require the use of an automobile. (Ibid.) In fact, at the time of the
incident, Pietrzak worked remotely from his home. (PR-SSF No. 6; Pietrzak Decl.
¶ 4.) Also at the time of the underlying incident, Pietrzak was driving from
his home to Home Depot to shop for personal items. (PR-SSF No. 8; Pietrzak
Decl. ¶ 3.) He was not working on that day and was not engaged in any
activities for the benefit of his employer. (PR-SSF No. 10; Pietrzak Decl. ¶
5.)
Therefore, Honda meets its initial burden by providing
evidence that it cannot be vicariously liable for Pietrzak’s alleged negligence
because Pietrzak was not acting within the course or scope of his employment,
nor was he acting for Honda’s benefit.
 
The
Graves Amendment
The Court also considers Honda’s argument that
Plaintiff’s claim must fail pursuant to 49 USC § 30106 (The “Graves Amendment”
or “Graves”). The Graves Amendment states in relevant part:
 
“An owner of a motor vehicle that rents or
leases the vehicle to a person (or an affiliate of the owner) shall not be
liable under the law of any State or political subdivision thereof, by reason
of being the owner of the vehicle (or an affiliate of the owner), for harm to
persons or property that results or arises out of the use, operation, or
possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or lease, if--
 
(1) the owner (or an affiliate of the owner)
is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles; and
(2) there is no negligence or criminal
wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).” (49 USC §
30106(a) – 49 USC § 30106(a)(2).)”
 
Graves generally preempts all state statutory
and common law to the extent those laws hold owners in the business of renting
or leasing motor vehicles vicariously liable for the negligence of drivers,
except when there is negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the
owner. (29 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 223.)
At the time of the underlying incident,
Pietrzak was driving a 2019 Honda Ridgeline which he leased from Honda. (PR-SSF
No. 12; Pietrzak Decl. ¶ 7.) Honda provides its Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ending on March 31, 2024, which states that Honda “provide[s] various forms of
financing in the United States and Canada to purchasers and lessees of Honda
and Acura products.” (PR-SSF No. 21; Exh. E [Form 10-K].) As discussed supra,
Honda did not act negligently or with criminal wrongdoing. (49 U.S.C. §
30106(a)(2).) Therefore, Honda meets their initial burden by providing evidence
that Plaintiff’s claim for negligence against Honda is barred by the Graves
Amendment.
 
Plaintiff’s Burden
The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable
issue of material fact as to Honda’s vicarious liability or the Graves
Amendment’s applicability.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that: (1) Honda’s
failure to assert a lack of an employment relationship between Pietrzak and
Honda in its answer waived any such affirmative defense; and (2) Honda fails to
provide admissible evidence that a lease existed between Pietrzak and Honda.
(Opposition p. 2:5-14.)
 
Vicarious Liability
First, Plaintiff argues Honda failed to
assert a lack of an employment relationship between Pietrzak and Honda in its
initial answer and therefore waived any related affirmative defenses
“An affirmative defense must be alleged in [a
party’s] answer or it is waived.” (Green v. Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 407, 416.) “[O]bjections a defendant might have on the merits –
including an objection that liability is barred by an affirmative defense – are
ordinarily deemed ‘waived’ if the defendant does not raise them in its demurrer
or answer to the complaint. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) For an affirmative
defense to be sufficiently plead, the defendant must allege facts “averred as
carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of
action and are alleged in the complaint. [Citation.]” (FPI Development, Inc.
v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) However, a court may permit a
defendant to raise an affirmative defense for the first time in its summary
judgment motion absent a showing of prejudice to the plaintiff. (Nieto v.
Blue Shield of Cal. Life & Health Ins. Co. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 60,
75.) The plaintiff does not suffer prejudice so long as they have adequate
notice and the opportunity to respond to the affirmative defense raised in a
motion for summary judgment. (Cruey v. Gannett Co. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
356, 367.)
Honda answered Plaintiff’s complaint on April 8, 2022. In
its answer, Honda did not notice the affirmative defense of vicarious
liability. However, Honda did so sufficiently in its motion for summary
judgment, which Plaintiff had adequate notice of and the opportunity to respond
on the merits. Therefore, the Court finds that Honda properly raised vicarious
liability as an affirmative defense in its motion for summary judgment.
 
Admissible Evidence of a Lease
Second, Plaintiff argues that Honda fails to provide
admissible evidence that a lease existed between Pietrzak and Honda and that,
as a result, Honda fails to provide sufficient evidence showing that the Graves
Amendment bars Plaintiff’s claim.
Specifically, Plaintiff relies on Cal. Evid. Code §
1523(a), which states that “oral testimony is not admissible to prove the
content of a writing.” (Cal. Evid. Code § 1523(a).) However, such oral
testimony “is not made inadmissible by subdivision (a) if the proponent does
not have possession or control of a copy if the writing and the original is
lost or has been destroyed without fraudulent intent on the part of the proponent
of the evidence.” (Evid. Code § 1523(b).) Here, as evidence that Honda leased
the subject vehicle to Pietrzak, Honda relies on Pietrzak’s declaration that he
leased the vehicle as part of his compensation package with AHFC. (See PR-SSF
Nos. 11-14.) Honda fails to provide any other evidence of the lease. However,
in its reply, Honda notes that it has been unable to procure the lease
agreement, and that Plaintiff has been aware of this fact. (Reply p. 8:23-27;
Julian Decl. ¶ 2.) To support its argument, Honda provides its responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, dated February 5,
2024. (Julian Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. F.) Here, Honda advised Plaintiff that a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry was made to locate the lease agreement but was
ultimately unsuccessful. (Exh. F No. 36.) Therefore, the Court finds that Evid.
Code § 1523(b) applies and Pietrzak’s declaration is admissible to show that
Honda leased the subject vehicle to Pietrzak.
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff fails to meet their
burden showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to Honda’s
vicarious liability or applicability of the Graves Amendment.
 
V.      
CONCLUSION
            For
the foregoing reasons, Honda’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 
 
 
 
Dated: December 30,
2024                             __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
            