 Case Number:  24VECV04905    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  B AMANDA johnson, ET AL. VS
EARL g robinson, et al.
 
Motion for
nunc pro tunc order
 
Date of Hearing:          January 2, 2025                       Trial Date:       None
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         24VECV04905
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs
Pedram Akbarineku, Amanda Johnson, Theodore 
Akbarineku,
a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Pedram             Akbarineku, and Wyatt Akbarineku, a
minor by and through his  guardian
ad litem Pedram Akbarineku
Responding Party:       None
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs
Pedram Akbarineku (“Pedram”), Amanda Johnson (“Johnson”), Theodore Akbarineku
(“Theodore”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Pedram Akbarineku,
and Wyatt Akbarineku (“Wyatt”), a minor by and through his guardian ad litem
Pedram Akbarineku (collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that, on October 1, 2022,
Defendants Earl G. Robinson (“Earl”), Tanya Schneider Robinson (“Tanya”), and
Does 1 to 20 (collectively “Defendants”) negligently entrusted and operated a
motor vehicle, colliding with Plaintiffs’ motor vehicle and causing injuries
thereof.
 
On December 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant unopposed motion for a nunc pro tunc order correcting the date of
filing of their complaint pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court 5.560(f).
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to CCP § 473(d), the court
may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical
mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, to conform to the judgment or
order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other
party, set aside any void judgment or order. Additionally, CRC 5.560(f) permits
the court, nunc pro tunc, to correct any clerical errors in judgments, orders,
or other parts of the record at any time. (CRC 5.560(f).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
The record reflects that Plaintiff’s complaint was filed on
October 8, 2024. On September 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed Plaintiff’s
complaint via the court’s e-filing portal. (Moghtader Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. 1 [filing
confirmation].) On September 30 and October 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
contacted the Civil Filing Call Center to ensure that the filing would meet the
statute of limitations deadline of October 1, 2024. (Ibid. at ¶ 8.) On
each occasion, court staff assured Plaintiff’s counsel that the complaint would
be processed in time. (Ibid.) However, on October 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel received notice that their e-filing had been rejected for failure to
include the first Plaintiff’s name in the data field and omission of the phrase
“a minor by and through his guardian ad litem” for the minor plaintiffs. (Ibid.
at ¶ 11; Exh. 2 [rejection notice].) Plaintiff’s counsel believes these
errors were the result of a technical glitch and attaches his records as
confirmation that he correctly completed the complaint. (Ibid. at ¶ 12;
Exh. 3.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel resubmitted the filing and received
notice that the filing was accepted with an official filing date of October 8,
2024. (Moghtader Decl. ¶ 14; Exh. 4 [acceptance notice].) This filing date
exceeds the statute of limitations for Plaintiffs’ complaint and, if not
corrected, will significantly prejudice Plaintiffs. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 16-18.)
 
In the interests of justice, and having found good cause,
the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for a nunc pro tunc order correcting
Plaintiffs’ date of filing pursuant to CCP § 473(d) and CRC 5.560(f).
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for a nunc pro tunc order correcting
Plaintiffs’ date of filing is GRANTED. The Court will issue a nunc pro
tunc order amending the filing date of Plaintiffs’ complaint to September 27,
2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. Court to sign proposed order. 
 