 Case Number:  22STCV34099    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  49 Michael Reyes Vettoretto v. Joshua GafniSPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE MOVING PARTY: Defendant Joshua GafniRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Michael Reyes VettorettoSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff Michael Reyes Vettoretto alleges he owned the condominium unit located at 750 N. Kings Road, Unit 109, Los Angeles, CA. Plaintiff, as landlord, leased the unit to Defendant Joshua Gafni as tenant pursuant to a written lease.Plaintiff alleges that after entering escrow to sell the unit to a third party, Defendant refused to allow a reasonable inspection of the premises. Plaintiff brought this action for (1) Enforcement of Inspection Rights per Civil Code section 1954, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) breach of contract. The case is related to Joshua Gafni v. Michael Reyes, LASC Case no. 22STCV34223. There, Gafni, as Plaintiff, alleges his unit suffered water damage from flooding on multiple occasions and that Defendant failed to undertake the necessary repairs in a proper or timely manner. The unit also displayed mold and faulty plumbing and electric, among other issues. It was not until Defendant decided to sell the unit—allegedly without providing the mandated statutory notice to Plaintiff—that Defendant made some of the necessary repairs.Pursuant to the Anti-SLAPP statute, Defendant Gafni now moves to strike the third cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike is DENIED.Defendant is to file an Answer within 21 days.Moving party to give notice.  DISCUSSION:Special Motion to StrikeI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendant’s request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 7.04 and 7.05. Without objection, the court also takes judicial notice of Defendant’s Exhibits 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 6.01, 6.02, and 7.06. The court takes judicial notice of the existence of the exhibits without assuming the truth of the assertions contained therein. (See Seelig v. Infinity Broad. Corp. (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 798, 808.)II. Objections to EvidenceDefendant’s unnumbered objections to the Tabback declaration, Linscott declaration, Vettoretto declaration, and Exhibits C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K are OVERRULED. (See Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-49.)III. Legal StandardCCP section 425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.    “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.” (Id. at 384.)  “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at 384-385 [citations omitted].) The anti-SLAPP motion need not address what the complaint alleges is an entire cause of action, and may seek to strike only those portions which describe protected activity. (Id. at 395-396.) IV. AnalysisTo satisfy the first prong of the two-prong test, a movant defendant must demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public as defined in the statute.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67; see City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78 [“[i]n the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free speech”].)  “[A] claim may be struck [as a SLAPP] only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for which liability is asserted. [Citation].” (Wong v. Wong (2019) 43 Cal. App. 5th 358, 364.)  “Thus, in evaluating anti-SLAPP motions, ‘courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” [Citation.] (Id.)  The fact “[t]hat a cause of action arguably may have been triggered by protected activity does not entail that it is one arising from such.” (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 78 [emphasis added].)  It is the “[t]he ‘principal thrust or gravamen’ of the plaintiff's claim [which] determines whether section 425.16 applies. [Citations.]” (Renewable Resources Coalition, Inc. v. Pebble Mines Corp. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 384, 394-395.)The challenged cause of action is for breach of contract. Breach of contract requires “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of Am. (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 790, 800.)In the Third Cause of Action for Breach of Contract, Plaintiff/Landlord alleges that Defendant/Tenant breached the Lease agreement by preventing an inspection and making it “difficult, onerous, or impossible for [Landlord] to show the Subject Unit to prospective buyers.” (FAC ¶ 29.) This “dissuaded” potential buyers, which allegedly forced Landlord to “remove[] the Subject Unit from the market,” and later re-list the Unit for a reduced price. (Id. ¶¶ 30, 31.)Defendant contends these allegations challenge protected conduct under the anti-SLAPP statute, either as (1) Statements or writings in connection with an issue under consideration by an official body (Code Civ. Proc. §425.16(e)(2)), or (2) other conduct in furtherance of free speech or petition rights in connection with a public issue (Code Civ. Proc. §425.16(e)(4)). The court turns to each.First, section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) protects “any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body ....” (§ 425.16, subd. (e)(2), italics added.) Interpreting this section, courts have clarified that “communications in connection with anticipated litigation are considered to be ‘under consideration or review by a ... judicial body.” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1255, 1263–64 [citing Flatley, 39 Cal.4th at p. 319].) Courts have adopted an “expansive view of what constitutes litigation-related activities within the scope of section 425.16.” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1255, 1268 (2008). Statements made in preparation for litigation or in anticipation of bringing an action fall within the protected categories.  (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co. (2020) 56 Cal. App. 5th 413, 425.) This section “do[es] not require the defendant to show a public issue or issue of public interest. [Citation]….Under the plain terms of the statute it is the context or setting itself that makes the issue a public issue: all that matters is that the First Amendment activity take place in an official proceeding or be made in connection with an issue being reviewed by an official proceeding.” (Vergos v. McNeal (2007) 146 Cal. App. 4th 1387, 1395.)Here, the cause of action for breach of contract plainly does not “arise from” any protected litigation activity. Rather, it challenges only Defendant’s alleged resistance to permit an inspection of his unit, which made it “difficult, onerous, or impossible for [Landlord] to show the Subject Unit to prospective buyers.” (FAC ¶ 29.) That the parties may have been contemplating litigation around the same time, and eventually did file lawsuits, does not mean the challenged conduct arose from the litigation activities. Defendant’s attempts to broaden the conduct challenged are unavailing. Defendant repeatedly asserts that Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action challenges communications between Defendant and his attorney, and Plaintiff’s threats to call the police. (FAC ¶¶ 9, 11.) Even assuming such conduct could be covered under the anti-SLAPP statute, these allegations do not form the basis of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim. The FAC only incorporates paragraphs 1 through 7. (Id. ¶ 26.) At most, these allegations are evidence of liability, but not the challenged conduct itself. “In deciding whether an action is a SLAPP, the trial court should distinguish between (1) speech or petitioning activity that is mere evidence related to liability and (2) liability that is based on speech or petitioning activity. Prelitigation communications or prior litigation may provide evidentiary support for the complaint without being a basis of liability.” (Graffiti Protective Coatings, Inc. v. City of Pico Rivera (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1214-1215.)  The court now turns to subdivision (e)(4), which protects other conduct in furtherance of free speech or petition rights in connection with a public issue. (Code Civ. Proc. §425.16(e)(4).) A cause of action arises from protected activity under subdivision (e)(4), if “(1) defendants' acts underlying the cause of action, and on which the cause of action is based, (2) were acts in furtherance of defendants' right of petition or free speech (3) in connection with a public issue.” (Tamkin v. CBS Broad., Inc. (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 133, 142–43.)“Section 425.16 does not define ‘public interest,’ but its preamble states that its provisions ‘shall be construed broadly’ to safeguard ‘the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and petition for the redress of grievances.” (Tamkin, supra, 193 Cal. App. 4th at 143 [citing § 425.16, subd. (a)].) “[A]n issue of public interest’ ... is any issue in which the public is interested. In other words, the issue need not be ‘significant’ to be protected by the anti-SLAPP statute—it is enough that it is one in which the public takes an interest.” (Id.) Section (e)(4) is meant to be a broadly construed “catch-all.” (Lieberman v. KCOP Television, Inc. (2003) 110 Cal. App. 4th 156, 164.)In FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, the Court of Appeal established a two-part inquiry to determine whether a defendant has met its burden to show its alleged wrongful activities fell within section 425.16, subdivision (e)(4)'s public interest requirement: “First, we ask what ‘public issue or [ ] issue of public interest’ the speech in question implicates—a question we answer by looking to the content of the speech. [Citation.] Second, we ask what functional relationship exists between the speech and the public conversation about some matter of public interest.” (FilmOn.com, supra, 7 Cal.5th at pp. 149-150.) On the second inquiry, a court must determine if the speech “contributes to—that is, ‘participat[es]’ in or furthers—some public conversation on the issue.” (Id. at 151.)  This analysis requires consideration of the particular circumstances in which a statement was made, “including the identity of the speaker, the audience, and the purpose of the speech.” (Id. at 140.)“FilmOn’s first step is satisfied so long as the challenged speech or conduct, considered in light of its context, may reasonably be understood to implicate a public issue, even if it also implicates a private dispute. Only when an expressive activity, viewed in context, cannot reasonably be understood as implicating a public issue does an anti-SLAPP motion fail at FilmOn’s first step.” (Geiser v. Kuhns (2022) 13 Cal. 5th 1238, 1253–54.)Here, in support of a public issue, Defendant contends that “Lessee Gafni’s conduct / speech relate to the COVID-19 Pandemic and Public Safety, the Housing Crisis in Los Angeles, and landlords harassing tenants to strongarm vacancies and sell the property at record high property values.” (Mtn. 11: 3-5.) But again, the challenged conduct here is narrow: the FAC challenges Defendant’s alleged resistance to permit an inspection of his unit, which allegedly breached his lease agreement. (FAC ¶ 29.) Viewed in context, this private dispute cannot reasonably be understood as implicating a public issue. “The fact that ‘a broad and amorphous public interest’ can be connected to a specific dispute is not sufficient to meet the statutory requirements of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (World Financial Group, Inc. v. HBW Ins. & Financial Services, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal. App. 4th 1561, 1570; Rand Resources v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 610, 625–626 [“At a sufficiently high level of generalization, any conduct can appear rationally related to a broader issue of public importance. What a court scrutinizing the nature of speech in the anti-SLAPP context must focus on is the speech at hand, rather than the prospects that such speech may conceivably have indirect consequences for an issue of public concern.”].)Therefore, Defendant has not demonstrated that the act or acts of which Plaintiff complains were taken in furtherance of the Defendant’s right of petition or free speech. The motion fails under prong one, as a matter of law.Hence, the burden never switches to Plaintiff to demonstrate the required “minimal merit.”  This Court does not make any findings as to that issue.Accordingly, Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   November 3, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.