


[1] According to the minute order,
Plaintiff's Counsel may have inadvertently filed a FAC for this matter on a
Welch case out of San Bernardino County. It is unclear whether the San
Bernardino case pertains to the same parties/set of facts. (The only reference
to San Bernardino County would be that the accident happened in Big Bear, which
is a part of San Bernardino County.) According to California Rules of Court
Rule 3.300(h)(2), “[I]f the related cases are pending in more than one superior
court on notice to all parties, the judge to whom the earliest filed case is
assigned may confer informally with the parties and with the judges to whom
each related case is assigned, to determine the feasibility and desirability of
joint discovery orders and other informal or formal means of coordinating
proceedings in the cases.” 
 


[2] As to causation, though not
filled with detail, the court finds the allegations specific. Plaintiff
is not conclusively alleging that he was harmed because of the alleged
misrepresentation but alleging that he was harmed because he could have
sought other employment. Absent authority, Plaintiff need not plead
where he intended to apply, job applications he submitted, or a specific
amount of monetary harm. Even assuming, though not specifically argued, that
Plaintiff cannot plead a causal relationship because he was injured such that
he could not physically work another job while receiving medical
treatment, on a demurrer, the sole issue is whether the pleaded facts state a
valid claim no matter how unlikely or improbable. (Del E. Webb Corp.
v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604; Berg &
Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1034.) 
 


[3] Court agrees that
Plaintiff has made no showing of that these individuals possessed the authority
to speak on behalf of Temco, especially as the job title of “safety” is
unclear. That said, as Ray is the one instructing Plaintiff to do
certain things (e.g., get a medical note) and is the one communicating with
Plaintiff about his medical absence, for purposes of a demurrer, Plaintiff has
sufficiently pled that Ray is in a supervisory capacity to speak on behalf of
the company and the allegations can be modified, need be, with discovery. 
 


[4] “Fraud may be proved by direct evidence or it may
be inferred from
all of the circumstances in the case.” (Pearson v. Norton (1964) 230
Cal.App.2d 1, 8.) 

