  Case Number:  23PSCV00153    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)            
DEFENDANT VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.’S
MOTIONFOR DETERMINATION OF PRIVILEGE, DISQUALIFICATION OF COUNSEL, AND
IMPOSITION OF MONETARY SANCTIONS is GRANTED; counsel is not
disqualified but monetary sanctions are imposed because Plaintiff’s firm used
the information in an unrelated case. 
 
(2)            
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF THE
LEGITIMACY OF VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.’S PRIVILEGE CLAIMS AND CLAW
BACK UNDER CIV. PROC. CODE § 2031.285 is MOOT. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case. 
 
On January 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant.
 
On February 23, 2023, Defendant filed its answer. 
 
On January 23, 2024, the court held an IDC. 
 
On February 21, 2024, Defendant filed its motion.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed her motion.
 
On March 11, 2024, the court held a CMC and IDC, but there were no
appearances by either party. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition to Defendant’s motion.[1]
 
On April 11, 2024, Defendant filed its reply to Plaintiff’s opposition
Defendant’s motion. 
 
On April 18, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply in support of her motion. 
 
On May 1, 2024, the court continued the hearing as the court did not
receive an unredacted version of the document at issue (i.e., Activity
Overview). 
 
On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed and provided the unredacted version. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 2031.285 is at issue.
(Motion p. 2.) In turn, the entirety of the statute is as follows:
 
(a) If electronically
stored information produced in discovery is subject to a claim of privilege or
of protection as attorney work product, the party making the claim may notify
any party that received the information of the claim and the basis for the
claim.
(b) After being
notified of a claim of privilege or of protection under subdivision (a), a party
that received the information shall immediately sequester the
information and either return the specified information and any copies that
may exist or present the information to the court conditionally under
seal for a determination of the claim.[2]
(c) (1) Prior to the
resolution of the motion brought under subdivision (d), a party shall be
precluded from using or disclosing the specified information until the claim of
privilege is resolved.
(2) A party who received
and disclosed the information before being notified of a claim of privilege or
of protection under subdivision (a) shall, after that notification, immediately
take reasonable steps to retrieve the information.
(d) (1) If the
receiving party contests the legitimacy of a claim of privilege or
protection, he or she may seek a determination of the claim from the court
by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the claim and
presenting the information to the court conditionally under seal.[3]
(2) Until the legitimacy
of the claim of privilege or protection is resolved, the receiving party shall
preserve the information and keep it confidential and shall be precluded from
using the information in any manner. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., §
2031.285, emphasis added.) 
Discussion
 
As the two motions are predicated upon the same legal issue(s), same
facts, and same documents, the court’s ruling on one will inherently render the
other motion moot. As Defendant’s claim of privilege is the crux of both
motions, the court will address Defendant’s 2/21/24 motion.
 
Defendant avers that the communications inadvertently produced to
Plaintiff during discovery are privileged because they “took place between
[Defendant] and its attorney, were communicated on [Defendant’s]
password-protected internal platform, sought legal advice following receipt of
an attorney demand letter threatening litigation, and prominently displayed
counsel’s name, title, and an attorney-client privilege disclosure throughout
the document” (Motion p. 20-25) and the communication is marked “with a picture
of a red stop sign on the very first page” to further signify privileged
communication (Motion p. 6:25-27.) 
 
According to California Evidence Code section 952, a “confidential communication between
client and lawyer” is defined as the following:
 
As used in this article, "confidential
communication between client and lawyer" means information transmitted
between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and
in confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware, discloses the
information to no third persons other than those who are present to further the
interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the accomplishment
of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and includes a legal opinion
formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that relationship. (Cal. Evid. Code §
952, emphasis added.) 
 
“The party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the
preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made
in the course of an attorney-client relationship.” (Motion p. 6, quoting Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733.) To determine whether a communication
is privileged, the focus of the inquiry is the dominant purpose of the
relationship between the parties to the communication. Under this approach,
when the party claiming the privilege shows the dominant purpose of the
relationship between the parties to the communication was one of attorney to
client, the communication is protected by the privilege. (Motion p. 9, citing Clark
v. Superior Ct. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 37, 51; Costco Wholesale Corp. v.
Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 731.) Once
the claiming party “establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim
of privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and
the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the
communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other
reasons apply.” (Ibid.) 
 
Whether The Communication is
Privileged? 
 
Here, the court determines that the communication is privileged. For
one, the communication is between Nicolas C. Johnson, corporate counsel,[4]
and Erin Johnson,[5]
a senior specialist working in the Customer Resolution & Retention
department. Thus, the communication is between an attorney and a client. Next,
the information transmitted pertains to, effectively, Defendant’s strategy
in how to handle attorney demand letter in which litigation had been threatened. Thus, the predominate purpose of these
communications were legal in nature.[6] Therefore, attorney-client privilege applies.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff advances a variety of arguments that, while based on
correct law, are inapplicable to the set of facts. 
 
First,
Plaintiff avers that communication by an
attorney does not automatically constitute privileged information. (See
Opp. p. 10, quoting Grand Lake Drive In. Inc. v. Superior Court (1960)
179 Cal.App.2d 122, 127 [“Knowledge which is not otherwise privileged does
not become so merely by being communicated to an attorney.”].) The reason is
that the privilege only protects communications between an attorney and client
made for the purpose of seeking or delivering legal advice or representation.
(Opp. p. 10, quoting Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court
(2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 293.) Accordingly, communications that may have “some
ancillary bearing” on the relationship does not automatically constitute as privileged
communication. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, however, Plaintiff’s characterization that the Activity Overview merely reflects written
statement of policy used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or
replacement (Opp. p. 11) is disingenuous. If, as Plaintiff maintains, that the
subject communication presents mere basic written procedure then why, after hundreds
of cases handled between Plaintiff’s firm and Defense’s firm (that are not
of novelty, Opp. p. 10:5), is Plaintiff just now getting this
information? Answer: because the
subject document was inadvertently
disclosed. And
there was clearly something salient about this communication that
Plaintiff’s used it in different litigation. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff argues that the “entire purpose of the disputed communications was to
direct Defendant’s Consumer Resolution Group representative Erin Johnson to
provide the information communicated by Nick Johnson to outside third-parties
including Plaintiff’s Counsel and Plaintiff themselves.” (Opp. p. 13:23:26.)
Plaintiff, effectively, is asking this court to rewrite the legislature’s laws
of privilege. The mere fact that information communicated between an
attorney and a client is at some point later transmitted to opposing
counsel does not mean that the communication at its inception was not
privileged. 
 
Third, Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived the privilege. The privilege may be lost by an
express or implied waiver, the latter being at issue. (See Opp. pp. 11, 14.) The
privilege holder impliedly consents to disclosure by tendering an issue
involving the substance or content of a protected communication. (Opp. p. 11,
citing Southern California Gas Co. v. Pub Utilities Com. (1990) 50
Cal.3d 31.) Plaintiff contends that because
written policies are subject to the court’s IDC discovery order, then
the subject document is discoverable. (Opp. p. 15.) The mere fact that Nick
Johnson contends that their practice is “standard protocol” does not render it
a written policy and/or procedure. 
 
Whether Plaintiff’s Misconduct Merits
Disqualification? 
 
The court has
the discretion to disqualify counsel. (Rico v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 807, 819.) “[M]ere exposure to
an adversary's confidences is insufficient, standing alone, to warrant an
attorney's disqualification…disqualification might be justified if an attorney
inadvertently receives confidential materials and fails to conduct himself or
herself in the manner specified above, assuming other factors compel
disqualification.” (State Comp. Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc. (1999)
70 Cal.App.4th 644, 657.) Using that rule, the California Supreme Court in Rico
v. Mitsubishi Corp. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 807 affirmed the appellate court’s
judgment in disqualifying counsel when after
reviewing the document, the attorney made copies and disseminated them to
plaintiffs' experts and other attorneys.[7]

 
Defendant argues that similar to Rico, here, the record shows
that Plaintiff’s Counsel not only failed to conduct himself as required under State
Fund but also acted unethically in making full use of the confidential
document. 
 
Here, the court disagrees that the facts arise to the level of unethical
conduct to warrant disqualification. 
 
First, though
Defense Counsel vehemently maintains that Plaintiff’s counsel did not sequester
the document, there is no evidence to indicate otherwise. The subject document
was used before Plaintiff was put on notice about the confidentiality.
To the extent that Defendant argues that Plaintiff should have known
that the document was obviously confidentiality, the court is not
entirely persuaded by this argument because prominent
notations of confidentiality are not dispositive. (See Rico v. Mitsuibishi
Corp. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 807, 818-819 [“[C]ourts must consider whether
reasonably competent counsel, knowing the circumstances of the litigation,
would have concluded the materials were privileged, how much review was
reasonably necessary to draw that conclusion, and when counsel's examination
should have ended.”].)
 
Second, Plaintiff
did appropriately exercise its right to contest the legitimacy of the claim of
privilege or protection by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the
claim and presenting the information to the court conditionally under seal.[8]
(Opp. pp. 17-18, citing Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.285(d)(1).) 
 
Third, Defendant has not made a showing that “[w]ithout disqualification
of plaintiffs' counsel [], the damage caused by [Plaintiff’s] use and
dissemination of the [subject document] was irreversible.” (Rico, supra, 42
Cal.4th at p. 819.) 
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Defense seeks $6,776.65
in monetary sanctions to be imposed upon Plaintiff’s counsel, Quill & Arrow
LLP. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2023.030(a) specifically provides that “[t]he court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” Sanctions are mandatory “[i]f a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id). 
 
Here, the
court finds sanctions because Plaintiff used the privileged document as a
deposition exhibit in an unrelated case. 
 
Therefore,
utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the
circumstances, the court determines that Defendant’s requested sanctions are
reasonable as is (13 hours at a rate of $395/hour + anticipated 4 hours
reviewing opposition and drafting reply + $61.65 filing fee). 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion is (partially) granted, rendering Plaintiff’s
motion moot. 
 
 
 


