 Case Number:  23PSCV03431    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT HOME EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE, LLC dba TEMCO
LOGISTICS’ NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED without leave to amend because, despite a
prior attempt at leave to amend, Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendant
intended to defraud Plaintiff. 
 
Background
 
This is a
wrongful termination case. Plaintiff BILL WELCH alleges the following against
Defendant HOME EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE, LLC dba TEMCO LOGISTICS: Plaintiff
began his employment with Defendant in November 2021 as a technician. On his
first day (12/7/21), Plaintiff got in a car accident; Plaintiff was the
passenger, and another company employee was the driver. Plaintiff was taken
back to the warehouse and treated by “Industrial Athletes.” After weeks of
pain, Defendant was put Plaintiff on light duty (e.g., sweeping), but Plaintiff
could not endure that pain, so Defendant placed Plaintiff on temporary leave.
Plaintiff’s temporary disability/medical leave was extended to 2/28/22. For the
first time, during his 5/11/22 worker’s compensation claim deposition,
Plaintiff learned he had been terminated on 1/21/22 for not providing medical
documents as requested, which he always did. 
 
On November
3, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit asserting the following causes of action (COAs): 1.     Wrongful Employment Termination In
Violation Of Public Policy 2.     Retaliation (Gov. Code §12940 (H)) 3.     Disability Discrimination In Violation
Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.) 4.     Failure To Engage In The Interactive
Process In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.) 5.     Failure To Provide Reasonable
Accommodation In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et Seq.) 6.     Failure To Prevent And/Or Remedy
Discrimination/ Retaliation In Violation Of The FEHA (Govt’ Code § 12940, Et
Seq.)  
On December
7, 2023, Defendant a MTS to the complaint, which on February 1, 2024, the court
granted with leave to amend.
 
On March 14,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
On April 17,
2024, Defendant filed its reply to the demurrer. 
 
On April 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the demurrer. 
 
On April 25,
2024, the court continued the hearing due to no FAC on file.[1]
That same day, Plaintiff filed his FAC, adding a COA for FRAUD/INTENTIONAL
MISREPRESENTATION. 
 
Discussion
 
Previously, Defendant
filed a MTS allegations of malice, oppression, or fraud because the allegations
were insufficient to demonstrate malice, fraud, or oppression. Specifically,
the court noted that while “fraud for purposes of punitive damages requires more
than a mere showing of a misrepresentation but an intention of doing
so to deprive the person of a property or legal right or otherwise
causing injury. (§ 3294(c)(3).) Plaintiff’s complaint is silent as
to Defendant’s intention.” (MTS 2/1/24 Ruling.)
 
Now,
Defendant’s demurrer advances a similar argument: Plaintiff’s 7th
COA for fraud is not pled with the requisite specificity because (i) there
are no facts to suggest Defendant made any false representations regarding the
need for proper paperwork from Plaintiff while on medical leave, specifically
with regard to who, when, where, and by what means this information was
conveyed to Plaintiff and (ii) Plaintiff does not specify with particularity
the way in which Plaintiff was damaged and the alleged damages causal
connection[2] to
any specified action taken by Defendant. 
 
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e.,
to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996)12 Cal.4th 631, emphasis added.)
 
The court turns to the pleadings. The 7th COA states the
following pertinent allegations:
 
Defendants requested and enticed
Plaintiff to continue with his medical treatment and to continue to provide
medical documentation and even requested medical authorization for his
continued disability and to provide continued medical leave prescriptions from
his medical treating providers. However, while requesting the same, Defendants
unilaterally and without notice to Plaintiff terminated him during his medical
treatment. As it was unknown to Plaintiff that he was terminated he continued
to medically treat and request and received medical leave from his medical
providers. Simultaneously, Plaintiff continued to medically treat and provide
medical leave authorization he did not look for any other employment and/or any
other financial benefit as Defendant continually indicated though numerous
correspondence that he was still employed. Had Plaintiff known that he was
terminated he would have sought other avenues to supplement his income.
Plaintiff was denied these opportunities as a direct result of Defendants fraud
…. (FAC ¶¶86-91.) 
 
Upon a review of the FAC, authority, and legal standard,
the court finds that fraud is insufficiently pled. 
 
A plaintiff has a greater burden
in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer in that he must “allege
the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.” (Opp. 4, quoting Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff alleges
that he spoke with (i) Ray” and/or “Moses”; (ii) who are “safety” and
“supervisor”;[3] and that
(iii) instead of telling Plaintiff that he was already terminated for not
providing documents as requested, Ray told Plaintiff to have the doctor extend
Plaintiff’s leave and that Ray specifically requested that Plaintiff provide a
copy of the medical note so Ray can extend leave on his end, which was
impossible as Plaintiff had already been terminated at that point. 
 
That said, the FAC lacks specificity regarding
Ray’s knowledge of Plaintiff’s termination prior to their communication.
Frankly, Ray may not even have been informed of Plaintiff’s termination before
telling Plaintiff to extend his leave. Should the court subscribe to
Plaintiff’s position, then this court would effectively be allowing a party who
makes a mistake or makes a negligent misrepresentation to be sued
for fraud. Fraud,
however, is never presumed. (Mason v. Drug Inc. (1939) 31 Cal.App.2d
697, 703.) 
 
Therefore, absent statements or
conduct made prior to termination,[4]
Plaintiff has not made sufficient allegations to fraud.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer
is sustained. Though denial of leave to amend on the first demurrer would
likely be an abuse of discretion here, the court has already awarded leave to
amend on a near identical issue (pleading fraud). And as the FAC does not
allege new or sufficient facts, suggesting that leave to amend would be
futile. Therefore, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
 


