 Case Number:  23STCV01213    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV01213




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Universal Protection
Service, LP (“Defendant”) now moves for judgment on the pleadings against
Plaintiff Amanda Pham’s (“Plaintiff”) complaint. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                    
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                  
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) 
 
Here,
the Declaration of Mark A. Johnson, Defendant’s counsel, states the following:
“On October 3, 2024, I sent Plaintiff a letter via FedEx Standard Overnight
mail and requested that she meet and confer with me prior to noon on October
10, 2024.  Attached hereto as Exhibit 1
is a true and correct copy of the October 3, 2024 correspondence. Receiving no
response to the meet and confer letter I called Plaintiff on October 10, 2024
and left a voice mail following up on the October 3, 2024 correspondence. As of
the filing of this Motion, Defendant’s counsel as not received a response to
this meet and confer request.” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 11-13.) Therefore, Defendant
properly attempted to meet and confer. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
“[A] pleading valid on its face may nevertheless be subject to
demurrer when matters judicially noticed by the court render the complaint
meritless. In this regard the court passing upon the question of the demurrer
may look to affidavits filed on behalf of plaintiff, and the plaintiff's
answers to interrogatories, [Citation] as well as to the plaintiff's response
to request for admissions.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) 
 
“The court will take judicial notice of records such as admissions,
answers to interrogatories, affidavits, and the like, when considering a
demurrer, only where they contain statements of the plaintiff or his agent
which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the court.
The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of affidavits,
declarations, depositions, and other such material which was filed on behalf of
the adverse party and which purports to contradict the allegations and
contentions of the plaintiff.” (Del E. Webb Corp., supra, 123
Cal.App.3d at 604-05; see Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 485 [“It is true that a court may take judicial
notice of a party's admissions or concessions, but only in cases where the
admission ‘can not reasonably be controverted,’ such as in answers to
interrogatories or requests for admission, or in affidavits and declarations
filed on the party's behalf.”]; see also St. Mary v. Superior Court
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775 [“Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted
through (Request for Admission) discovery devices are conclusively established
in the litigation and are not subject to being contested through contradictory
evidence.”].) 
 
Based on the authorities above, the request for judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s deemed admitted Request for Admissions, Set One, is granted. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On
May 8, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved,
effective upon filing proof of service of the order on Plaintiff. The proof of
service was filed on May 9, 2024. Plaintiff is currently
self-represented.  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges injuries under negligence and premises
liability causes of action after Defendant’s security guard opened a door which
sliced Plaintiff’s achilles tendon. (Complaint ¶ 14-15.) 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  
 
On August
19, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to deem admitted its Request for
Admissions, Set One, served on Plaintiff. (Min. Order, 8/19/24.) As a result,
in the Request for Admissions (“RFA”), Plaintiff has admitted, among other
things, that Defendant did not breach a duty owed to her (RFA 2); that no agent
or employee of Defendant opened the doors that caused her injury (RFA 3); that
Defendant did not own, maintain, control, lease, or operate the subject
premises (RFA 4-8); and that no act or omission by Defendant caused her injury
(RFA 10). 
 
In line
with the authorities above, these matters cannot be reasonable controverted and
are inconsistent with the allegations within Plaintiff’s
complaint. Therefore, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted.
 
Plaintiff has not opposed this motion and therefore fails to show that
she can reasonably amend the pleadings. Therefore, the motion is granted without
leave to amend.
 
At the hearing on this motion, Defendant shall also advise the Court
whether it is moving to dismiss its cross-complaint with prejudice, or promptly
file such a request.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is
GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
            Moving
party shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of
such.