 Case Number:  22STCV25073    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25073




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-defendant Lotus Eleven
  Ventures, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
  AK Investment Property LLC 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in
Support
3.     Declaration of James Gates
4.     Table of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS[1]
 
1.     AK
Investment Property LLC’s Opposition; Memorandum
of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Declaration of Nima Rezaie in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.     Reply to the Opposition
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 3, 2022,
Plaintiff Yolanda Candelario Macario (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Lotus Eleven Ventures, Inc., AK Investment Property LLC, City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises
liability.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on August 12, 2021, she “was walking southbound
on the western sidewalk of Sepulveda Blvd. crossing the 7-Eleven store located
at the Subject Location, when she slipped on water that was leaking onto and
across the sidewalk from a nearby water system located on a grass patch adjacent
to the 7-Eleven (hereinafter ‘dangerous condition’), causing her to fall to the
ground and sustain bodily injuries.” (Complaint ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts negligence and premises liability causes of action
against Moving Defendant Lotus Eleven Ventures, Inc. (“Lotus”). 
 
On December 1, 2022, AK Investment Property LLC (“AKI”) filed a
cross-complaint against City of Los Angeles, Lotus, and County of Los Angeles
for equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. On December 27,
2022, City of Los Angeles (“City”) filed a cross-complaint against Lotus and
AKI for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
 
Lotus now moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary
adjudication, against Plaintiff’s complaint, AKI’s cross-complaint, and City’s
cross-complaint.[2] AKI
opposes and Lotus replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication,
the trial court has no discretion to exercise. 
If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes
of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the
motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)        
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre
v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
“The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see
Civil Code § 1714.)¿ 
 
“A store owner is not the insurer of its patrons' personal
safety, but does have a duty to exercise reasonable care to keep the premises
reasonably safe for patrons. [Citation.] This includes a duty to keep the
floors safe for patrons' use. [Citation.] To establish an owner's liability for
negligence, the plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation, and damages.
[Citation.]” (Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
1030, 1035.)
 
Analysis
 
            Here, the following is undisputed. At
all relevant times, Lotus operated the 7- 11 store located at 8661 Sepulveda
Blvd, North Hills, California.  In May
2011, 7-Eleven Inc. signed an agreement with AK to lease the premises where it
opened this store. In 2019, 7-Eleven subleased the store to Lotus as part of
the Lotus Franchise Agreement. (UMF 1.) On the afternoon of August 12, 2021,
Plaintiff Yolanda Macario was walking on the public sidewalk running alongside
the subject 7-11 store.  As she was
walking along that sidewalk, she slipped and fell on a wet, slick condition on
the subject sidewalk. (UMF 4.) The accumulation of water resulted from a leaky
pipe in the external plumbing of the subject premises, in the vicinity of the
water connection/meter. (UMF 5.) 
 
Lotus argues that because the water that Plaintiff slipped on
arose from an external pipe that, according to the lease, was under the control
of AKI, it owed no duty to Plaintiff. 
 
To support this, Lotus points to two areas of the lease
agreement:
 
-       
Under
the terms of the lease agreement, Lotus is granted, pursuant to Paragraph 2,
“(i) the exclusive use of the following areas of the Shipping Center, in
addition to the premises: (a) the Exclusive Parking Area; (b) an area for
display of merchandise and the exclusive use of Tenant’s sign panels on the
Monument sign.” (UMF 2.)
-       
Pursuant
to Paragraph 8 (MAINTENANCE) AK (the Landlord) “agrees to maintain in good
repair, at Landlord’s sole expense (i) the foundation and structural soundness
of the building of which premises are a part…. (ii) the building systems and
utility connections (except the heating ventilation and air conditioning
equipment (the “HVAC”) and the plumbing and electrical wiring serving the
Premises and located outside the Premises.” (UMF 3.) 
 
Lotus appears to argue that because AKI agreed to maintain in
good repair the “utility connections” and “plumbing”, which presumably included
the leaky pipe at issue, Lotus did not owe a duty to Plaintiff. However, upon
reviewing the lease agreement between AKI and 7-Eleven, paragraph 8 then states
at the end:
 
“Notwithstanding the foregoing, until the End of the Single Tenant
Period . . ., Tenant shall maintain (i) the Common Area, as provided in Article
29(a), and (ii) the non-structural portions of the roof of the Building,
provided that Landlord assigns to Tenant any applicable warranties and provided
that Landlord delivers the Premises with the roof in good condition and
repair.”
(Exh. A, Shopping Center Lease ¶ 8.)
 
Article 29(a) states in relevant part:
 
“Maintenance of Common Area prior to End of the Single Tenant Period.
Until such time as construction of additional space or other improvements for
another specific occupant or tenant in the Shopping Center is commenced (the ‘End
of the Single Tenant Period’) (which shall not include general improvements or
improvements not constructed for a specific tenant or other occupant of the
Shopping Center), and provided that at the time of delivery of the Premises to
Tenant the Common Area (Including without limitation the parking area,
landscaping, and exterior lights) are in good repair, and the parking area
freshly slurry coated and striped, Tenant shall maintain the common area, at
its sole expense.”
(Exh. A, Shopping Center Lease ¶ 29a.)
 
The Lease Agreement also refers to the Common Areas as the
following: 
 
“Landlord grants Tenant, together with its employees, suppliers,
contractors, authorized representatives, invitees, permitted assigns and
sublessees … (ii) the non-exclusive right to use, for parking and for use of
any means of ingress and egress in, to and from the Shopping Center now or
hereafter existing, including, but not limited to driveways, loading areas,
curb cuts, sidewalks and remaining parking areas, in common with Landlord and
Landlord’s other tenants (‘the Common Area’).”
 
(Exh. A, Shopping Center Lease ¶ 2(ii).) 
 
Based on the above, Lotus fails to meet
its burden to establish the absence of a triable issue of fact. Lotus focuses
on the cause of the dangerous condition, but ignores that the purported
dangerous condition existed on the premises, over which it had control under
the lease agreement. Although not clear from Lotus’s motion, it appears that
Plaintiff slipped on a part of the sidewalk that is covered as a “common area.”
Lotus does not appear to dispute that the lease agreement required Lotus to
maintain the “common area,” which includes the sidewalk. Even the cases cited
by Lotus focus on the ownership or control over the premises, not just the
cause of the dangerous condition. (See, e.g., Bisetti v. United
Refrigeration Corp. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 643, 648-49 [“the courts have
come to the conclusion that a landlord who has actual knowledge of a dangerous
condition on his property should be held to owe a duty of care only when he as
the right to prevent the presence of the dangerous condition on his premises.”].)[3]
 
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment
and motion for summary adjudication is denied.[4]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Lotus Eleven
Ventures, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Lotus shall provide notice
of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


