 Case Number:  23STCV04909    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV04909




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Rocio Honorato Herrera




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Rocio Honorato Herrera (“Plaintiff”)
now moves for an order to compel verified responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One from Defendant 1151
Maple-1-AHPP LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that he served Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, on Defendant on June 25, 2024. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)
The responses were due July 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.) On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff
granted an extension for responses without objections to September 13, 2024. Since
then, Defendant has not responded and has not filed an opposition to this
motion. (Id. ¶ 8.) Therefore, the motion to compel is
granted.   
 
Plaintiff requests $952.91 in monetary
sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record, representing an hourly
rate of $350, the $60.00 filing fee, and “additional fees” for $17.91. (Rodriguez
Decl. ¶ 9.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Defendant has
failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type
of motion at issue, the lack of opposition, and the fact counsel can appear at
the hearing remotely. Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth no other
evidence justifying the $17.91 in additional fees. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040
[a request for a sanction shall be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth
facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought”].) Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the amount of $585 (1.5 hours of attorney time to
file and appear at the hearing, plus the $60 filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Request
for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant 1151
Maple-1-AHPP LLC shall serve verified responses without objections within 30
days. 
 
The Court further
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its
attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $585.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 