  Case Number:  21STCV30692    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV30692




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reclassify Action from Unlimited to Limited Jurisdiction




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Michael Zargar 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 19,
2021, Plaintiffs Roman Sharf and Sasha Demovsky (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Michael Zargar (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50 for
injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
 
On November 14,
2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
On September 18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
reclassify this case as one of limited jurisdiction. No opposition has been
filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
403.040 states:
“(a) The plaintiff,
cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for reclassification within
the time allowed for that party to amend the initial pleading. The defendant or
cross-defendant may file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed
for that party to respond to the initial pleading. The court, on its own
motion, may reclassify a case at any time. A motion for reclassification does
not extend the moving party's time to amend or answer or otherwise respond. The
court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification,
regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the case has been classified in an
incorrect jurisdictional classification.
(b) If a party files a motion for
reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party's initial
pleading or to respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial
pleading, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification
only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The case is incorrectly
classified.
(2) The moving party shows good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.” 
 
For a limited civil case, “[t]he
amount in controversy does not exceed thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000).
As used in this section, ‘amount in controversy’ means the amount of the
demand, or the recovery sought, or the value of the property, or the amount of
the lien, that is in controversy in the action, exclusive of attorneys' fees,
interest, and costs.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 85(a).)[1] 
 
In Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, the California Supreme Court held
“a matter may be transferred when: (1) the absence of jurisdiction is apparent
before trial from the complaint, petition, or related documents, or (2) during
the course of pretrial litigation, it becomes clear that the matter will
necessarily result in a verdict below the superior court jurisdictional amount
and the court affords the parties an opportunity to contest the transfer.” (Walker,
supra, 53 Cal.3d at 262.) A matter may be reclassified from
unlimited to limited only if it appears to a legal certainty that the
plaintiff's damages will necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker, supra,
53 Cal.3d at 262.) If there is a possibility that the damages will exceed
$25,000.00, the case cannot be transferred to limited. (Ibid.) This high
standard is appropriate in light of “the circumscribed procedures and recovery
available in the limited civil courts.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 266, 278.)   
The test is
whether lack of jurisdiction is clear or virtually unattainable. (Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at 269.)
This standard involves an evaluation of the amount fairly in controversy, not
an adjudication of the merits of the claim, and requires a “high level of
certainty that [the] damage award will not exceed $25,000.” (Id.) The
trial court may believe it highly unlikely that plaintiff will recover the
amount demanded, but this is not enough to defeat jurisdiction, unless it
appears to a legal certainty that plaintiff cannot recover the amount of the
demand. (Id. at 270.)
In
deciding whether a matter should be transferred, a trial court must look beyond
the pleadings but not so far as to trespass into the province of the trier of
fact. Pain and suffering are not subject to precise measurement by any scale,
and their translation into money damages is peculiarly the function of the
trier of the fact. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th
397, 401.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant argues that in responses to Form Interrogatories, Plaintiff
Sharf claims $7,859 in medical bills, $3,054.48 in property damage to his
vehicle, and one week in lost wages as a self-employed plumber. Plaintiff
Demovsky claims $7,850 in medical bills. Defendant argues the incident here was
minor and involved a vehicle lane change, and therefore the amount in
controversy will not exceed the limit.  
 
However, the evidence provided does not show to a legal certainty that
Plaintiffs cannot recover over $35,000 when accounting for general damages and
Plaintiff Sharf’s lost wages.[2] 
 
Additionally, this motion was brought after the time to file
Defendant’s initial pleading. Defendant has not discussed whether there is good
cause for not seeking reclassification sooner. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to reclassify is DENIED.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


