 Case Number:  21STCV33055    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV33055




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Graciela Fonseca Garcia   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Graciela Fonseca Garcia (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel
further responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three, number 36
from Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff also seeks
monetary sanctions. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿  
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿The Court lacks jurisdiction if the motion is filed after this
time period. ¿(Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403,
1410.) 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On October 10, 2024, the parties held an informal discovery
conference (“IDC”) pursuant to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. The
issues were not resolved. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges injuries from a slip and fall at a Superior
Grocers grocery store. Plaintiff served Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Three on Defendant on July 9, 2024. (Darbinyan Decl., Exh. 1.)
It appears incorrect responses were served on August 26, 2024, but Defendant
did not serve responses to Set Three until September 9, 2024; these contained
only objections. Though it appears the responses were
not timely, Plaintiff does not explicitly assert that objections were waived
and addresses the merits of the objections. 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to Request 36 which requests:
 
“Any and all DOCUMENTS in effect at
the time of the INCIDENT constituting YOUR policies and procedures RELATING TO
investigating incidents due to slip/trip and falls which occurs on or near
SUBJECT PREMISES.”
 
Here, on November 1, 2024, Defendant filed a
notice that it provided amended responses and responsive documents on October
31, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on November 4 indicating that she is “asking
this Court to order Defendant to produce Accident/ Incident Report, Claims
Affidavit of Declaration (slip and fall), Video Observation Report as referred
in the Customer Incident Protocol.” (Reply at p. 1.) Plaintiff does not
establish that these items are responsive to Request 36, which seeks policies
and procedures at the time of the incident regarding investigating slip and
fall incidents. Accordingly, the motion is denied as moot.
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff filed this motion the same day as the IDC, without further meeting
and conferring as agreed at the IDC, and the Court therefore declines to award
sanctions. The Court notes that counsel’s assertion that an IDC was held and
the “matter could not be resolved … leaving Plaintiff with no choice but to
file a motion to compel,” appears to be inaccurate, as the parties had
indicated that they would further meet and confer. (Motion at p. 2.) Instead,
Plaintiff did not adequately meet and confer following the IDC, as was agreed
upon, and prematurely filed the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set Three, number 36 is denied.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 