 Case Number:  23STCV03240    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV03240




MOTION


Motion to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Bruce Berke and Zafira Berke




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Israel Morales 



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Bruce Berke and Zafira Berke (“Defendants”) move to reopen
discovery for the limited purpose of conducting a neuropsychological
examination of Plaintiff and completing expert witness depositions. Plaintiff Israel
Morales (“Plaintiff”) opposes, and Defendants reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on February 14, 2023 and alleges
negligence based on a motor vehicle accident. Trial was initially set for
August 13, 2024.  
 
Defendants’ answer was filed on March 29, 2023.  
 
On June 3, 2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to October 25, 2024.
 
On October 21, 2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial to January 30, 2025. Fact and expert discovery remain closed.
The pre-trial motion cut-off remains in effect. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Daniel R. Friedenthal, counsel for Defendants, does
not set forth a specific meet and confer effort to reopen discovery.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On April 28, 2023
Plaintiff served responses to Form Interrogatories 6.2 to 6.3, stating that he
claimed a traumatic brain injury resulting in “headaches, blurred vision,
memory impairment, dizziness, imbalance, light sensitivity, difficulty
concentrating, speech impairment, and photopsia.” (Friedenthal Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
On January 9,
2024, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for January 29, 2024.
(Friedenthal Decl. ¶ 4.) Prior
counsel for Defendants had noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for September 7, 2023
and July 11, 2023. Plaintiff’s deposition was then re-noticed for April 12,
2024 and May 24, 2024; Defendants assert that Plaintiff objected to the date
each time. 
 
On June 10, 2024, Defendants noticed a
neuropsychological examination for Plaintiff for July 15, 2024. (Friedenthal Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. E.) However, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff was insisting that Defendant Zafira Berke be deposed before
Plaintiff; because Berke was caring for his 80-year-old wife who was undergoing
chemotherapy, his deposition did not take place until June 6, 2024.
 
Thereafter, the first part of Plaintiff’s deposition was
taken on August 12, 2024, and the second part occurred on August 21,
2024.  
 
On August 19, 2024, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s
neuropsychological examination for September 19, 2024. (Friedenthal Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. F.) This notice contained the list
of tests that would be used at the exam. On
September 10, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection to the notice, and demanded
that the raw data not only be provided to Plaintiff’s expert (as was agreed
upon), but also to Plaintiff’s attorney. The examiner Dr. Bilder refused to
share the raw data with non-experts due to ethical obligations. (Friedenthal Decl. ¶ 11.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues he did not
condition completing his examination after his deposition. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant took the examinations off-calendar
unilaterally, and that the notices contained defects. For example, the June 10,
2024 notice failed to list the exact tests and diagnostics; the August 8, 2024
notice contained the same defect. On August 19, 2024, Defendants served the
second amended demand; Plaintiff concedes that he insisted he be allowed to
audio record the examination and obtain the raw data and test materials. On
September 16, another demand was served; Plaintiff objected that the tests
listed amounted to over 12 hours of examinations. Additionally, Plaintiff was
unable to reach an agreement with Dr. Bilder
regarding sharing the raw data. 
 
Expert witness designations were exchanged on September 9,
2024. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
Based on the information above, the Court
finds that Defendants acted with sufficient diligence and that the reasons for
the discovery warrant reopening discovery for a limited purpose.  Moreover, there appears to be sufficient time
to conduct the examination before the current trial date.[1]
Therefore, the motion to reopen discovery for Plaintiff’s neuropsychological
examination is granted. 
 
However, Defendant provides insufficient good
cause to warrant completing expert witness depositions, except for the witness
who will conduct an examination. Defendant also fails to explain exactly which
experts are sought to be deposed. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Accordingly, the Court GRANTS in
part Defendants’ Motion to Reopen Discovery. Discovery is reopened for the
limited purpose of hearing the motion to compel Plaintiff’s neuropsychological
examination and completing that examination if it is granted.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV03240




MOTION


Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Appear for hiss
  Neuropsychological Examination 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Bruce Berke and Zafira Berke




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Israel Morales 



 
MOTION
 
  Defendants Bruce Berke and
Zafira Berke (“Defendants”) move to compel the neuropsychological examination
of Plaintiff with Robert M. Bilder, Ph.D, on December 2, 2024. Plaintiff Israel
Morales (“Plaintiff”) opposes, and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Daniel R. Friedenthal, counsel for Defendants, does
not set forth a specific meet and confer effort for this motion.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Here, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff is claiming a traumatic brain injury and therefore, there is good
cause for the neuropsychological examination. Instead, the parties disagree on
whether the raw test data can be transmitted to Plaintiff’s attorney and
whether the testing portion of the examination can be audio recorded. 
 
            According to the declaration of Dr.
Bilder, he is unable to complete the examination if the raw data is transmitted
to Plaintiff’s counsel or if the testing portion is recorded since it would
violate test security professional guidelines. (Bilder Decl. ¶ 5.) He also
attaches a “Collective Statement of Importance of Protection of Psychological Test
Materials as of August 7, 2024”, signed by 100 psychologists and
neuropsychologists which states in part: “In summary, allowing
non-psychologists to receive protected psychological test materials, including
examinee’s specific responses, test questions, and test stimuli, poses a
serious threat of widespread social harm by compromising test security.” (Friedenthal
Decl., Exh. C, p. 8.)
 
However,
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530 expressly states “[t]he examiner and
examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by audio
technology.”
 
Defendants argue that transmitting raw test data to
non-psychologists could compromise future use of the tests. The Court of Appeal in Randy’s Trucking
upheld the trial court’s decision directing a neuropsychologist to transmit an
examination recording to the plaintiff’s counsel on multiple grounds, such as
protecting against abuses and disputes over what transpired during the
examination, ensuring the examiner does not overstep the bounds set by the
court for the mental examination, and enabling the attorney to have more than a
second-hand understanding of the information being scrutinized. (Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818,
838.) Contrary to
Defendants’ argument in reply, the mere fact a hundred professionals signed the
Collective Statement, does not address the remaining factors discussed in Randy’s
Trucking, which point towards disclosing the raw data and audio recording. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants the request to conduct a
neuropsychological examination and grants Plaintiff’s request to record the
examination and have the raw data transmitted to counsel.[2]
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion to compel Plaintiff’s neuropsychological examination is GRANTED in part.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


