  Case Number:  19STCV45931    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RIGHT BROTHERS MANAGEMENT, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
JOAO SILVERSTEIN, et al.
  


 Case No.: 
  19STCV45931
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 31, 2024



 
Defendants BMI Group, Inc.’s,
Mike Agazaryan’s, David Agazaryan’s, and Ara Baljian’s motion to bifurcate
trial is denied.
The
Court sets trial on October 7, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and a Final Status
Conference on September 26, 2024, at 9:30 a.m., both in Dept. 71.  
 
Defendants
BMI Group, Inc. (“BMI”), Mike Agazaryan (“Mike”), David Agazaryan (“David”), and
Ara Baljian (“Baljian”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move for this Court
to bifurcate the trial in this matter and hold a bench trial on the issue of
contract interpretation before any jury is empaneled.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)  Moving Defendants move on the grounds this Court
has the power and authority to hold a bench trial as to the interpretation of
the Binding Letter of Intent Re: Joint Venture for the operation of licensed
commercial cannabis businesses in Lompoc, California (the “LOI”) so that the
jury can be instructed as to the Court’s interpretation at the commencement of
the trial.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)  Moving Defendants argue bifurcating the trial
in this matter will save substantial resources of the Court and the parties,
and will promote convenience to the prospective jurors since virtually all of
the issues involved in this action revolve around the terms of the LOI.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Moving Defendants’ 7/24/24 request for judicial
notice of the Declaration of Dennis Bozanich (“Bozanich”) is denied.
 
Background
Moving Defendants filed the
instant motion on March 14, 2024.  Plaintiff
filed its opposition on July 17, 2024.  Moving
Defendants filed their reply on July 24, 2024.
 
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
C.C.P. §598 provides, in part,
 
The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted
thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no
later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial
conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the
trial date, that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special
defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.  
 
(C.C.P. §598.) 
Additionally, Evidence Code §320 provides that
“[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law, the court in its discretion shall
regulate the order of proof.” “Under these provisions, trial courts have broad
discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial
economy.”  (Grappo v. Coventry
Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)  Further, “[t]he statutory provisions for
severance and separate trials (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 598, 1048) are not limited
to the separate trial of a ‘cause of action’ but also authorize a separate
trial of any ‘issue.’”  (American
Motorists Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 864, 872.) 
When “ascertaining the intent of the parties at the
time the contract was executed depends on the credibility of extrinsic
evidence, that credibility determination and the interpretation of the contract
are questions of fact that may properly be resolved by the jury.”  (City of Hope National Medical Center v.
Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 395 [holding that the issue of
whether a DNA use requirement or patent infringement requirement applied to
certain monies or licenses was properly decided by the jury because the
decision involved conflicting extrinsic evidence].)
Here, a factual conflict exists to determine each
party’s obligations under the LOI; therefore, extrinsic evidence is needed to
interpret contract terms.  Specifically,
the parties will need to present external evidence to interpret whether the LOI
required BMI to provide a cultivation license beyond the temporary licenses,
which expired the month after the parties entered into the joint venture
agreement.  Defendants have argued that
the LOI could not have contemplated anything beyond the temporary licenses
because a renewal of their licenses were not guaranteed (i.e. the temporary
label on the license on its own limited the term of the agreement) and that the
both parties knew that a renewal of the licenses was uncertain.  (12/6/23 Opposition Memo to MSJ at 1:14-19,
13:15-22.)  Plaintiff will present
testimony from Dennis Bozanich about how a license holder could reasonably
expect to have its license renewed as long as it complied with all applicable
regulations. Plaintiff will also present testimony from its principals that
they had reasonable expectations based on their previous cultivation experience
that the licenses would be renewed. 
(Opposition, pg. 5.)  
Thus, the parties will present conflicting evidence as
to the effect of the temporary permits on the meaning of the LOI, for which a
jury will determine the credibility.  (Warner
Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles(1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 291 [holding
that the trial court properly relegated the question of contract interpretation
to the jury because it depended on the credibility of a witness’s
interpretation of terms in the contract].)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ motion to bifurcate
trial is denied.
 
          Conclusion
          Moving
Defendants’ motion to bifurcate trial is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Trial
The
Court sets trial on October 7, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and a Final Status
Conference on September 26, 2024, at 9:30 a.m., both in Dept. 71.  A reminder that trial counsel are ordered to
appear at the FSC in person and that trial notebooks must be delivered to Dept.
71 two days prior to the FSC.  
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  