 Case Number:  23STCV11578    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



M.M.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11578
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR
  JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Date: 
  November 1, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff M.M. 
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            The currently
operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) alleges: (1) negligence; (2)
negligence; (3) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; and (4) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision. Only the first and third causes of action
are alleged against Moving Defendant.
 
In relevant part,
the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was sexually abused by Norbert Stuart Volk
(“Volk”), a teacher employed by Moving Defendant in 1980.  (FAC ¶¶ 30-32.)  The FAC alleges that Moving Defendant was on
notice of Volk’s misconduct.  (FAC ¶ 35.)
 
On August 3, 2023,
Moving Defendant filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings (the “Motion”).  The Motion argues that the FAC does not state
a valid claim against Moving Defendant because the statutory basis for
exempting Plaintiff’s claims from the Government Claims Act violates the
California Constitution’s prohibition against the gift of public funds.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Moving Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.  While the Court takes judicial notice of the
existence of court documents, it does not take notice of the truth of the
matters stated therein.  (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
113.)  

 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
            The
meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
Legal Standard
Under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 438, subdivision (c)(1)(B), a defendant may move for judgment on the
pleadings if the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. 
(CCP § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).)  The
standard for granting a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the
same as that applicable to a general demurrer. 
(Burnett v. Chimney Sweep
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.)  The
court must assume the truth of all factual allegations in the complaint, along
with matters subject to judicial notice. 
(Wise v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th.
725, 738.)  The court must view the
allegations in the light most favorable to the plaintiff.  (Edwards v. Centex Real Estate Corp.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 28.)  
 
Childhood Sexual Abuse Claims
Under CCP section 340.1, as amended by
Assembly Bill No. 218 (“AB 218”), the time for commencement of the action shall
be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the age of majority or
within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have
discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring after the age of
majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires later, for
any of the following actions: (1) an action against any person for committing
an act of childhood sexual assault; or (2) an action for liability against any
person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or
negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood
sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.  (CCP § 340.1, subd. (a)(1)-(2).)[1]
            AB 218 also amended the
provision that lists exceptions to the Government Claims Act, Government Code
section 905, by removing language in subdivision (m) that limited the exception
to claims arising out of conduct that occurred on or after January 2009 and
adding subdivision (p), which made this change retroactive.  (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School
District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 424 (“Coats”); Gov. Code § 905,
subds. (m), (p).)  
Article XVI, section 6 of the California
Constitution (“the Anti-Gift Provision”) provides, in relevant part: “The
Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or to authorize the giving
or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any county, city and county,
city, township or other political corporation or subdivision of the State now
existing, or that may be hereafter established, in aid of or to any person,
association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to pledge the
credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the liabilities of
any individual, association, municipal or other corporation whatever; nor shall
it have power to make any gift or authorize the making of any gift, of any
public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or other
corporation whatever… .”  (Cal. Const.,
art. XVI, § 6.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that the portion of
AB 218 that retroactively exempts childhood sexual abuse claims from the
Government Claims Act is unconstitutional with respect to public entities and
constitutes an impermissible gift of public funds.  Compliance with the Government Claims Act is
a substantive prerequisite to stating a claim for money damages against a
public entity.  (See State of
California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1240-41.)  
Moving Defendant’s argument turns on the
distinction between the nature of the statutes of limitation for childhood
sexual abuse cases and the substantive requirements of the Government Claims
Act for stating a claim against a government entity.  
 
The Court finds that the effect of AB 218 in
amending the Government Claims Act to add an exemption for claims of the type
alleged herein does not constitute a “gift of public money or thing of value”
within the meaning of the Anti-Gift Provision of the Constitution.  As the California Supreme Court held in Heron
v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 509, 517:
 
We are not strongly impressed with the
contention of the respondent that the application of funds to pay judgments
obtained against the state constitutes a gift of public money, within the
prohibition of the Constitution.  The
state cannot be subjected to suits against itself except by its express
consent; but it may surrender its sovereignty in that particular.  The judgments which are to be paid bear no
semblance to gifts.  They must first be
obtained in courts of competent jurisdiction, to which the parties have
submitted their claims in the manner directed by law.  In other words, they are judgments obtained
after the requirements of due process of law have been complied with.”
 
Here, AB 218 did not create an obligation on
the part of a governmental agency to pay a claim made by Plaintiff.  In order for Plaintiff to recover money from
Defendant, Plaintiff must first obtain a judgment in this case.  This would not be a gift of public
funds.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court is not persuaded
by Moving Defendant’s argument that the retroactive elimination of the claim
presentation requirement for childhood sexual abuse claims that arose before
2009 in AB 218 is unconstitutional under the Anti-Gift Provision.  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
         Dated this 1st day of November 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 


