 Case Number:  23STCV12411    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SPECTRA CONTRACT
  SERVICES, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MAGUIRE PROPERTIES – 777 TOWER LLC, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12411
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S
  COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: November 1, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Maguire Properties – 777 Tower LLC (“Defendant Maguire”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
Neither opposition nor reply papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an action arising from a subcontract
for painting and fabric installation to be done by Plaintiff Spectra Contract
Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff Spectra”) on property owned by Defendant Maguire.
Plaintiff Spectra filed a Complaint against Defendant Maguire; HNTB
Corporation; Howard Building Corporation; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
alleging a cause of action for foreclosure of mechanics lien.  
 
            Defendant Maguire filed a demurrer
to the sole cause of action in the Complaint . Defendant Maguire also filed a
motion to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff Spectra did not file an
opposition. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The Court GRANTS Defendant Maguire’s request for judicial notice. 
 
MEET AND CONFER
             The meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION 
DEMURRER 
            “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of
a complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.”  (Id.)  “The court accepts as
true all material factual allegations, giving them a liberal construction, but
it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or
allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.”  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)  In the demurrer context a court
“may also take notice of exhibits attached to the complain[t].”  (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)  “If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”  (Id.)
Issue No. 1: Sole Cause of Action
            Foreclosure of
Mechanic’s Lien
            Defendant Maguire asserts that the
Complaint fails to state facts that Plaintiff Spectra complied with the
statutory requirements for enforcement of the mechanic’s lien including facts
that Plaintiff Spectra served Defendant Maguire with the requisite preliminary
lien notice. Defendant Maguire also asserts that the only Assessor Parcel
Number (“APN”) that corresponds to the subject property where the purported
contractual work was performed is 5144-009-047 as described in the mechanic’s
lien. 
 
            Under California Civil Code,
Section 8400, a direct contractor, subcontractor, material supplier, equipment
lessor, laborer, and design professional that provides work authorized for a
work of improvement is entitled to a mechanic’s lien. California Civil Code,
Section 8400 et seq. Furthermore, pursuant to California Civil Code,
Section 8200(a)(1), “Except as otherwise provided by statute, before recording
a lien claim, giving a stop payment notice, or asserting a claim against a
payment bond, a claimant shall give preliminary notice to…The owner or reputed
owner.” (California Civil Code, Section 8200(a)(1); Brown Co. v.
Appellate Department (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 891, 897 [the purpose of
requiring notice to the owner is to alert the owner to the possible need for
protecting himself or herself; and the earlier the notice is given the more
likely it is the statutory purpose will be effectuated].)
            
            On the face of the Complaint, Plaintiff Spectra alleges
that it is a painting and decorating contractor and duly licensed to do
business as such in the State of California. Plaintiff Spectra further alleges
that Defendant Maguire entered into a direct contract with Defendant Howard
Building Corporation (“Defendant Howard”) for the construction or performance
of certain tenant improvements on the subject property owned by Defendant
Maguire. Plaintiff Spectra also alleges that on or about March 9, 2022, it
entered into a subcontract with Defendant Howard for the painting and
installation of fabric wrapped panel services on the subject property. Furthermore,
Plaintiff Spectra alleges that the subject property is commonly known as 777 S.
Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90017, APN 5144-009-047, 5144-0090-086,
5144-009-080, 5144-009-087, 5144-009-088, and legally described as set forth in
attached Exhibit A. Moreover, Plaintiff Spectra alleges that it substantially
performed the contracted services and Defendant Howard approved all the worked
performed by Plaintiff Spectra. Additionally, Plaintiff Spectra alleges that it
furnished labor and material for which payment remains outstanding in the sum
of $89,178.90. Plaintiff Spectra alleges that it claimed a mechanic’s lien on
the work of improvement and real property for the amount of the unpaid contract
price. Finally, Plaintiff Spectra alleges that it recorded and served a
mechanic’s lien, notice of mechanic’s lien and proof of service affidavit in
the office of the County of Recorder of the County of Los Angeles, where said real
property is located. 
 
            In Johnson v. Silver (1958) 161 Cal.App.2d Supp.
853, the court held that if plaintiffs were contractors or subcontractors, they
were not entitled to prevail in mechanic’s lien action because “they did not
plead and prove that they were contractors as required by Business and
Professions Code, Section 7031.” Similarly, a complaint that alleges “the labor
was performed for and the equipment furnished to the defendant through their
agent and co-owner…by plaintiff, and that defendant failed to pay for the same”
is not subject to attack by general demurrer even if “the allegations are
insufficient to show the plaintiff entitled to a lien.” (Sibley Grading
& Teaming Co. v. Crary (1935) 4 Cal.2d 375, 378.) As discussed above,
Plaintiff Spectra does plead facts that it is a licensed contractor in the
state of California, provided work authorized for work improvement on Defendant
Maguire’s property, furnished labor and materials for such work, and was unpaid
for such. 
 
Defendant
Maguire’s point is, however, well-taken in that Plaintiff Spectra does not
plead any facts that it served Defendant Maguire with preliminary notice prior
to recording the mechanic’s lien, which is required by law. Also, Plaintiff
Spectra does plead multiple APNs for the subject property, which lends to
uncertainty regarding what specific property is the subject of alleged cause of
action. Therefore, the facts as pled are insufficient to support a foreclosure
mechanic’s lien claim. 
 
As
a note, the court file shows that Plaintiff Spectra attempted to file an
amended complaint, which was rejected because it was filed without leave after
a response had been filed to the original complaint.  Additionally, Plaintiff Spectra did not file
an opposition to refute the arguments advanced by Defendant Maguire concerning
its sole cause of action. 
            Therefore, the demurrer of Defendant
Maguire to the sole cause of action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant Maguire
filed a motion to strike portions of the Complaint. Defendant Maguire seeks to
strike: Paragraph 11 regarding the excessive assessor’s parcel numbers. Because
the Demurrer has been sustained, the motion to strike is MOOT. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 1st day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



