  Case Number:  21STCV33381    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




ROBERT
  LEATHERMAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NEMESIO AZUL, etc., et al.,  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.    
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION                           


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV33381
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  November 1, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: September 23, 2024
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant
Greenhill Insurance Services  
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. No opposition papers were filed. Any opposition papers were required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing under
Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).  
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendants Nemesio Azul, Caring Heart In-Home Care
Services, Inc., and Does 1 to 30 arising from an alleged breach of a contract
for in-home care services, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; (2) negligence; (3) elder abuse—financial abuse; and (4) breach of
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  
 
            
Defendant Caring Heart In-Home Care
Services, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Greenhill
Insurance Services, Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London, and Does 1 to
10, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) bad faith denial of
insurance claim; (4) fraudulent misrepresentation; (5) breach of fiduciary
duty; (6) negligence; (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and (8)
declarative relief. 
 
Cross-Defendant Greenhill Insurance
Services filed a demurrer to the first through eighth causes of action in the
cross-complaint, as well as a motion to strike portions of the cross-complaint.
The demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. Any opposition to the motions
should have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b). 
            
            The
Court therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Cross-Defendant Greenhill Insurance
Services to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
causes of action in the cross-complaint with 20 days leave to amend pursuant to
Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410 as it is
unopposed. 
 
            The
Court GRANTS the motion to strike portions of the cross-complaint filed by
Cross-Defendant Greenhill Insurance Services with 20 days leave to amend
pursuant to Sexton v. Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410 as it is unopposed. 
             
Moving Party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.            
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 1st day
of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 