 Case Number:  22STCP01600    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CHYON SIMMONS, etc.,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DESMOND LINDSEY, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCP01600
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
REQUEST FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES PURSUANT TO
  CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 473(B)
 
Date: November 1, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“Defendant JPMorgan”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Chyon Simmons (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. No reply papers have been filed.
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from an alleged partnership
agreement between Plaintiff, Defendant Desmond Lindsey (“Defendant Lindsey”),
and Defendant Ironstep Construction and Engineering, LLC (“Defendant Ironstep”). Plaintiff Simmons filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant Lindsey, Defendant Ironstep, Defendant JPMorgan, and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of partnership
agreement; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) misrepresentation (fraud); (4)
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) declaratory
relief; (6) unjust enrichment; (7) negligence; (8) constructive trust; and (9)
accounting. 
 
            Defendant JPMorgan requests
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $18,868.30 pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b).  Only the seventh, eighth and ninth causes of
action are alleged against Defendant JP Morgan.
 
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 473(b), “The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b). Furthermore, “[t]he court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties.” (Id.)
 
            Defendant JPMorgan asserts that on
September 21, 2023, this Court granted in part and denied in part the Ex
Parte Application to allow Plaintiff to File a First Amended Complaint Late
(the “Application”) filed by Plaintiff Simmons. Defendant JPMorgan further
asserts that in the Application, Plaintiff sought leave pursuant to California Code
of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b) to file an amended complaint and to
oppose Defendant JPMorgan’s Motion to Dismiss and for Discharge of Liability
(“Motion”). Defendant JPMorgan asserts that the Court granted leave to file the
amended compliant and denied the Motion as moot. Defendant JPMorgan also
asserts that the Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel, Mainak D’Attaray to pay the
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred by Defendant JPMorgan as a result of the
ruling. Moreover, Defendant JPMorgan contends that the Court directed it to
submit a declaration on or before October 12, 2023 outlining the fees and costs
incurred by Defendant JPMorgan. Defendant JPMorgan advances the declaration of
its counsel of record, Arjun P. Rao (“Counsel Rao”).
 
Attorney Fees
Incurred by Alice Kwak, Marcos Sasso, Lauren McCabe, and Counsel Rao
            Counsel Rao avers that Alice Kwak,
at his direction, prepared an initial draft of the Motion, billing 14.7 hours
towards researching and drafting the Motion and related documents. (Rao Decl.,
¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Ms. Kwak’s billing rate for this matter was $362.00 per hour and
as such, Defendant JPMorgan was billed $5,321.40 for this aforementioned work.
(Id.) Counsel Rao further avers that Mr. Sasso spent a total of 25.5
hours between May 2020 and September 2023 revising the Motion, drafting
supporting the declaration of Rupesh Patel, conferring with Mr. Patel to revise
and finalize the declaration, drafting Counsel Rao’s declaration, preparing the
Reply, researching and preparing an opposition to the Application, and
preparing for and attending the hearing on September 21, 2023. (Id. at ¶
5.) Counsel Rao also avers that Ms. McCabe spent 8.0 hours assisting Mr. Sasso
by researching and drafting the Motion, as well as in preparing the supporting
declarations. (Id.) Moreover, Counsel Rao avers that he spent
approximately 1.8 hours in connection with the Motion and preparing for the
September 21, 2023 hearing. (Id.) Additionally, Counsel Rao avers that
his billing rate is $618.00 per hour, Mr. Sasso’s billing rate is $391.00 per
hour, and Ms. McCabe’s billing rate is $308.00 per hour. As such, Counsel Rao
avers that Defendant JPMorgan has been billed a total of $18,868.30. (Id.
at ¶¶ 6-7, Exh. 2.)
 
In
response to this present request for attorneys’ fees, Plaintiff objects on the
grounds that (1) California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b) does
not apply in this matter; (2) the amount and time claimed is excessive and
unreasonable; and (3) unreasonable and inflated request for attorneys’ fees
should be denied. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant JPMorgan misstates the
Court’s September 21, 2023 Order, which did not grant attorneys’ fees but
stated that it would consider a request for attorneys’ fees if made.
Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts that the Court did not grant a motion to set
aside a dismissal pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 473(b) because the case has never been dismissed. As such, Plaintiff asserts
that dismissal and a subsequent motion to set aside a dismissal is needed to
trigger the award of reasonable fees and costs under California Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 473(b). Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
JPMorgan’s counsel claimed 50 hours over a period of six months was spent on
this matter and request for $18,868.30 is well above the reasonable rates
charged and allowed for a motion pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 386.5. Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that computation
of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of the time is essential in
determining an appropriate attorneys’ fees award citing to PLCM Group, Inc.
v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095. 
 
The
Court finds that the respective request for attorneys’ fees is improperly sought
under California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b). There is no
evidence to support that an order of default judgment or dismissal was entered
against Plaintiff Simmons in this present case, and there is no authority upon
which to base a finding that failing to timely file an opposition constitutes a
“dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against [Plaintiff]” within the
meaning of Section 473(b).  Moreover, no
motion to set aside default or dismissal or any other order has ever been filed
by Plaintiff to be granted and warrant an award of attorneys’ fees in this
matter. Given that the request for attorneys’ fees is improperly sought under
California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 473(b) and Defendant
JPMorgan provides no other legal basis for such request, the arguments
regarding reasonability are moot. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant JPMorgan’s request for attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of
$18,868.30 is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 1st day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



