 Case Number:  23STCV22301    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  34 Plaintiff Curbio Inc.’s Application of Ryan Clancy, Esq.
to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. 
Background
Plaintiffs Curbio, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff and Defendant Winston O’Mally (“Defendant’) entered into a home
improvement agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breach the agreement.
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Defendant for:
1.              
Breach
of Contract
2.              
Foreclosure
of Lien
3.              
Unjust
Enrichment
A Final Status Conference is set for January 22, 2025 and a Jury Trial is
set for February 2, 2025.
Legal Standard
“A person who is not a
licensee of the State Bar of California but who is an attorney in good standing
of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the United States,
and who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of
this state, may in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice,
provided that an active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated
as attorney of record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:
(1) A resident of the State of California; (2) Regularly employed in the State
of California; or (3) Regularly engaged in substantial business, professional,
or other activities in the State of California.” (Cal. Rules of Court (“CRC”)
Rule 9.40, subd. (a).)
“A person desiring to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior
court must file with the court a verified application together with proof of
service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a
copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the application on
all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California
at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time
prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has
prescribed a shorter period.” (CRC Rule 9.40, subd. (c)(1).)
“The application must state: (1)
The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) That
the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts; (4) That the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) The title
of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6) The name, address, and telephone number of the active
licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.” (CRC Rule 9.40, subd. (d).)
“An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable
fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the copy of the
application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State Bar. . .” (CRC Rule 9.40, subd. (e).)
Discussion
Clancy moves,
pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40, for an order allowing him to
appear pro hac vice. Upon review of the Application, it appears that it complies with the requirements of California
Rules of Court Rule 9.40; accordingly,
the application is granted.