 Case Number:  22STCV34344    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Gallery Department LLC’s
Motion to Seal 
Defendant
Gallery Department LLC moves to seal part of attorney Gary Adelman’s pro hac
vice application.  Defendant moves to
seal the portion of the application stating Adelman’s residence address.
California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) provides:
A court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record; 
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.
An overriding interest
overcomes the right of public access to the sealed portion of the record.  Adelman has a significant interest in maintaining
the privacy of his home address.  “ ‘[I]ndividuals
have a substantial interest in the privacy of their home.’ ”  (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 653, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, fn. 8.)  The interest in public access to that
information is, at most, minimal.  Adelman’s
residence address is not related to the merits of this action.  He is only required to state his address because
he is not a member of the State Bar of California and he applies to appear as
counsel pro hac vice.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(d)(1).)  The fact
that Adelman is not a member of the State Bar of California does not give the
public an interest in knowing his home address.
The
overriding interest supports sealing the record.  If the record is not sealed, the public will
have access to Adelman’s home address, thereby prejudicing his interest in
privacy.  The proposed sealing is
narrowly tailored.  The publicly filed
version of the document redacts only Adelman’s home address.  There is no less restrictive means to protect
Adelman’s privacy.
Defendant Gallery Department’s motion to seal
records is granted.  The
court hereby seals the unredacted version of Gary Adelman’s
application to appear pro hac vice.Applications
to Appear Pro Hac Vice by Gary Adelman and Madyson Nucci The applications
to admit attorneys Gary Adelman and Madyson Nucci to appear as counsel pro
hac vice for defendant Gallery Department, LLC are granted.
