 Case Number:  21STCV34739    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant’s
Supplemental Motion in Limine No. 19
Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. moves in limine to exclude evidence of
plaintiff’s repair visits after he filed this action in September 2021. 
Specifically, defendant moves to exclude evidence of six repair visits from
July 2, 2022, to October 7, 2024.  (Motion, p. 2; Zipser Decl., Ex.
B.)  
Defendant
relies on Valdovinos v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 104 Cal.App.5th
732 (Valdovinos) for the proposition that repair visits after plaintiff
filed the lawsuit are not actionable or relevant to a Song-Beverly claim. 
The relevant portion of that opinion concerns the remedy of civil penalties for
willful violations of the Song-Beverly Act.  (Id. at pp.
759-771.)  The court stated, “The inquiry into whether a manufacturer’s
conduct in ‘fail[ing] to comply’ with the Act was ‘willful’ necessarily focuses
on a specific window of time.  [¶] The pertinent window starts once
the consumer has presented a sufficiently nonconforming vehicle to an
authorized ‘service or repair’ facility and provided the manufacturer a
‘reasonable number of attempts’ to fix that nonconformity.”  (Id.
at pp. 762-763.)  “The pertinent window ends once the consumer has
invoked the right to sue under the Act.  This end point is implied from
the function of the Act’s civil penalty—that is, to deter dilatory conduct by
manufacturers and thereby to encourage the prompt replacement or repurchase of
defective vehicles.”  (Id. at p. 763.)  The court therefore
held that “the scope of evidence relevant to willfulness does not include Kia’s
conduct outside the pertinent window of time” beginning when Kia violated the
law and ending when plaintiff filed suit.  (Id. at p. 771.)
Valdovinos thus does not support defendant’s argument that evidence
of repair visits occurring after plaintiff filed suit is per se
irrelevant.  Assuming any defects after plaintiff filed suit are not
actionable themselves, evidence of repair visits after filing may be relevant
to prove the vehicle was defective during the warranty.  In Donlen v.
Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, the court reasoned, “Evidence
that a problem was fixed for a period of time but reappears at a later date is
relevant to determining whether a fundamental problem in the vehicle was ever
resolved.  [Citation.]  Indeed, that a defect first appears after a
warranty has expired does not necessarily mean the defect did not exist
when the product was purchased.  [Citation.]  Postwarranty repair
evidence may be admitted on a case-by-case basis where it is relevant to
showing the vehicle was not repaired to conform to the warranty during the
warranty’s existence.”  (Id. at p. 149.)  The court held that
repairs after the warranty expired were “relevant to establishing the transmission
was not repaired to match the warranty while the warranty was in effect.” 
(Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal further held that the trial court did
not err in refusing to exclude evidence of postwarranty repairs under Evidence
Code section 352.  (Id. at pp. 146-151.)  
Defendant
shows the six repair visits beginning in 2022 are not relevant to prove the
vehicle was defective before plaintiff filed the action.  This evidence
does not have “any tendency in reason to prove or disprove” (Evid. Code, § 210)
that defendant failed to adequately repair the vehicle’s infotainment system
during the warranty period.  In this action, plaintiff alleges the vehicle
did not conform to the warranty because of defects in its “infotainment”
system.  (4AC, ¶¶ 21-24.)  The new vehicle warranty provides, “Honda
will repair or replace any part that is defective in material or workmanship
under normal use.”  (Id., Ex. A.)  But the warranty “does not
cover” several things, including “[n]ormal wear or deterioration of any part”,
“[t]he adding of any fluids, unless they are needed as part of a warranty
repair”, or “[e]xpendable maintenance items (such as filters, or brake
pads/linings) when replaced due to normal wear or customer abuse.”  (Ibid.) 
Evidence of repairs for issues not covered under the warranty are not relevant
to this action.  
Of the
six visits, the first two concerned only the vehicle’s driver-assist
functions.  Visits three, four, and six were solely for regular
maintenance, such as oil changes and a multi-purpose inspection.  Visit
five included regular maintenance, but also a recommended recall related to the
infotainment system—which plaintiff declined.  
Plaintiff’s
opposition does not adequately address the specific evidence defendant moves to
exclude.  Plaintiff contends, “Defendant is free to argue to the jury that
certain repair visits should not be considered and do not evidence defects that
substantially impair the use, value or safety of the Vehicle.  Defendant
should not be permitted, to hide the ball from the jury.”  (Opp., p.
4.)  But plaintiff offers no reason why evidence of these six repair
visits is relevant to whether plaintiff’s vehicle failed to conform to the
warranty.  Excluding this evidence does not constitute hiding the
ball.  Assuming this evidence is relevant, the court finds “its probative
value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
(a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.” 
(Evid. Code, § 352.)
Defendant’s
supplemental motion in limine No. 19 is granted.  The court hereby excludes
evidence and argument regarding the six repair visits from July 2, 2022, to
October 7, 2024.  (Motion, p. 2; Zepser Decl., Ex. B.)