 Case Number:  24STCV04519    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



ANA ROJO, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MRS. GOOCH’S NATURAL FOOD MARKETS, INC. DBA WHOLE FOODS
  MARKET, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV04519




Hearing Date:


June 18, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT INCLUDING PUNITIVE DAMAGES



 
Background
Plaintiff Ana
Rojo (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action on February 22, 2024 against Defendants Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food
Markets, Inc. dba Whole Foods Market, Whole Foods Market California, Inc., and
Whole Foods Market, Inc. The Complaint alleges causes of action for 
(1)
discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation, (4) failure to engage in the interactive process, (5) failure to
prevent discrimination and retaliation, 
(6)
violation of the California Family Rights Act, (7) retaliation in violation of
Pregnancy Disability Leave Law, (8) interference with, restraint, and/or denial
of rights in violation of Pregnancy Disability Leave Law, (9) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, and (10) breach of implied-in-fact
contract not to terminate employment without good cause. 
Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc., Whole Foods Market, Inc., and
Whole Foods Market California, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) now move to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion 
A.   
Legal Standard
A court may strike any “irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or any part of
a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” ((Id., § 437.) 
B.   
Allegations of the Complaint 
In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she “began her employment
with Whole Foods in or around September 2017.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) “In August 2022,
[Plaintiff] sustained a serious shoulder injury at work that caused her
significant pain and impaired her shoulder’s mobility. [Plaintiff] commenced
ongoing medical treatment for this injury and then requested and took medical
leave starting in mid-late August 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 17(a).) 
“Between October and December 2022, while on medical leave,
[Plaintiff] transferred from Whole Foods’ Beverly Hills store to the West
Hollywood store. [Plaintiff] also became pregnant in the fall of 2022.”
(Compl., ¶ 17(b).) “Around December 2022, [Plaintiff] returned from medical
leave and began work at the West Hollywood store, but with physical
restrictions that arose from her shoulder injury. Her restrictions, of which
she informed Whole Foods, included limitations on lifting, repetitive work, and
use of her injured shoulder…Whole Foods management failed to accommodate
[Plaintiff] by repeatedly directing and/or pressuring her to perform tasks that
ran afoul of the documented medical restrictions set forth by [Plaintiff’s]
doctor. [Plaintiff] voiced her opposition regarding the failure to accommodate
to management, but no remedial action was taken.” (Compl., ¶ 17(c).)
“Around March 2023, [Plaintiff] was experiencing complications with
her pregnancy that rendered her affected and disabled by pregnancy within the
meaning of the PDLL. As a result, Rojo sought medical treatment and took
protected leave in connection with her pregnancy starting in or around March
2023. [Plaintiff] delivered her baby in May 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 17(d).)
“After giving birth, [Plaintiff] developed post-partum depression
which caused her to obtain medical treatment and extend her leave multiple
times. [Plaintiff] returned to work in October 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 17(e).)
“[Plaintiff’s] physical restrictions arising out of her shoulder injury were
still in effect when she returned to work. Upon her return, however, Whole
Foods claimed for the first time that it was no longer able to accommodate
[Plaintiff] on the false basis that her restrictions had become permanent.”
(Compl., ¶ 17(f).) “Opposing Whole Foods’ failure to accommodate her
restrictions, [Plaintiff] informed Whole Foods that her restrictions were in
effect only until her shoulder injury sufficiently improves, whether following
surgery and/or less invasive treatment. She explained that her pregnancy had
delayed treatment of her shoulder, hence why the restrictions were still in
effect.” (Compl., ¶ 17(g).)  
Plaintiffs allege that “[d]espite the above facts and [Plaintiff’s]
explanations, Whole Foods failed to engage in any meaningful or good-faith
interactive process regarding [Plaintiff’s] known disability and failed to
explore the availability of effective and reasonable accommodations. Whole
Foods also failed to investigate [Plaintiff’s] concerns regarding the failure
to accommodate, as it was required to do pursuant to FEHA and its own policies.
Disregarding its affirmative duty to accommodate disabled employees, Whole
Foods instead falsely claimed in conclusory fashion [sic] that no
accommodations were available, and that [Plaintiff] was ineligible for medical
leave.” (Compl., ¶ 17(h).)
Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n November 2023, Whole Foods terminated
[Plaintiff’s] employment on the false and pretextual basis that no
accommodations were available, and that she was ineligible for medical leave.
By doing so, it discharged [Plaintiff] on the express basis of her disability
and in retaliation for her prior taking of protected leaves for her
disabilities and pregnancy. Whole Foods illegally used [Plaintiff’s] prior
leaves taken under CFRA and the PDLL against her in a punitive manner to justify
denying her further accommodations to which she was entitled. Further, prior to
[Plaintiff’s] disclosure of her pregnancy and taking of leave for the same,
Whole Foods never stated that it could not accommodate her physical
restrictions arising out of the shoulder injury. Thus, the timing of events
also indicates pretext.” (Compl., ¶ 17(i).) 
C.   
Punitive Damages 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the first through
ninth causes of action of the Complaint. (Compl., ¶¶ 33, 42, 50, 58, 66, 76,
83, 92, 98.) 
Pursuant to Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), “[i]n
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” 
As used in Civil Code section 3294, “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
In the motion, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim
for punitive damages should be stricken because “Plaintiff cannot show
the required specific facts articulating oppression, fraud, or malice by any
sufficiently senior person of Defendants.” (Mot. at p. 5:12-13.) Defendants
point to paragraph 20 of the Complaint and assert that “Plaintiff recites the
definitions of malice, fraud and oppression from the Civil Code and the basic
elements of her causes of action. (Compl., ¶ 20.) These conclusory statements
are merely a recitation of the legal standard, not specifically alleged facts
sufficient to warrant the imposition of punitive damages against Defendants.”
(Mot. at p. 7:6-9.) 
Defendants also cite to Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
702, 717,
where the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“In Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895
[90 Cal. Rptr. 2d 757], a female employee was passed
over for promotion because of her gender. The court held the employer was
liable for punitive damages because it denied the plaintiff a promotion based
on gender, then attempted to hide the illegal reason for denying the promotion
with a false explanation, and that it was this fabrication that constituted the
despicable conduct. (Id.
at p. 912.)
 
In Stephens v. Coldwell Banker Commercial Group, Inc.
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1394 [245 Cal. Rptr. 606],
an age discrimination case, the 63-year-old plaintiff was demoted, and when his
supervisor discovered he had no plans to retire, the supervisor “engaged in a
program of unwarranted criticism of plaintiff’s job performance to justify
plaintiff's demotion.” (Id.
at pp. 1398, , disapproved on another ground in White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 574,
fn. 4 [88 Cal. Rptr. 2d 19, 981 P.2d 944].)
The court found the unwarranted criticism to be oppressive behavior because it
had no factual justification, damaged the plaintiff’s reputation, and subjected
the plaintiff to embarrassment. (Stephens,
at pp. 1403–1404.)
 
Based upon the foregoing cases, we
conclude that wrongful termination, without more, will not sustain a
finding of malice or oppression. There was no evidence Phoenix attempted to
hide the reason it terminated Scott. It admitted to terminating her because she
would not enroll the McMaster child. Likewise, there was no evidence Phoenix
engaged in a program of unwarranted criticism to justify her termination.
Because there was nothing more than a wrongful termination here, punitive
damages were not warranted, and the trial court should have granted defendant’s
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict on the issue of punitive
damages.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that here, she “alleges in detail that Defendants’ managing agents,
officers, and/or directors asserted false explanations to cover up their
intentional taking of discriminatory and retaliatory adverse employment
actions.” (Opp’n at p. 1:25-27.) Plaintiff points to the allegations in the
Complaint that “[Plaintiff’s]
physical restrictions arising out of her shoulder injury were still in effect
when she returned to work. Upon her return, however, Whole Foods claimed for the
first time that it was no longer able to accommodate [Plaintiff] on the false
basis that her restrictions had become permanent. Not only were the
restrictions not permanent, but also, they posed no undue hardship to Whole
Foods even if they had been permanent.” (Compl., ¶ 17(f).) 
Plaintiff also points to the
allegation that “[d]isregarding its affirmative duty to accommodate disabled
employees, Whole Foods instead falsely claimed in conclusory fashion that no
accommodations were available, and that [Plaintiff] was ineligible for medical
leave.” (Compl., ¶ 17(h).) Plaintiff notes that she alleges that “[i]n November
2023, Whole Foods terminated [Plaintiff’s] employment on the false and
pretextual basis that no accommodations were available, and that she was
ineligible for medical leave. By doing so, it discharged Rojo on the express
basis of her disability and in retaliation for her prior taking of protected
leaves for her disabilities and pregnancy.” (Compl., ¶ 17(i).) 
Plaintiff asserts that under Cloud v. Casey, supra, 76 Cal.App.4th, discussed above, “an employer’s
concealing of wrongful motives with false explanations warrants punitive
damages.” (Opp’n at p. 1:10-11.) The Cloud
Court found that “[m]alice under Civil Code section 3294
includes ‘despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights . . . of others.’…The adjective
‘despicable’ used in section 3294 refers to
‘circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’…The
jury could properly conclude that the corporations intentionally discriminated
by denying Ms. Cloud a promotion based on gender, then attempted to hide
the illegal reason for their decision with a false explanation, and that
in this, they acted in a manner that was base, contemptible or vile. The
discriminatory employment decision denied Ms. Cloud her protected right under
FEHA ‘to seek, obtain, and hold employment without discrimination or abridgment
on account of…sex….’…Evidence that the decisionmaker attempted to hide the
improper basis with a false explanation also supports the jury’s determination
that the conduct was willful and in conscious disregard of Ms. Cloud’s rights.”
(Id. at p. 912.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s allegations here sufficiently demonstrate “malice” for
purposes of Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. 
Defendants also cite to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), which provides that “[a]n employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
Defendants note that the Complaint
alleges that “Defendants’ illegal actions were committed intentionally, in a
malicious, fraudulent, and/or oppressive manner, by and with the ratification,
authorization, and/or approval of managing agents, officers, and/or directors,
thereby entitling plaintiff to recover punitive damages.” (See, e.g.,
Compl., ¶ 33.) Defendants argue that “[t]hese conclusory statements leave
Defendants in the dark as to whom supposedly did what precisely that could
possibly support an award of punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 7:26-27.)
Defendants also contend that “Plaintiff’s Complaint is devoid of any
allegations that any particular person (much less someone sufficiently senior)
had acted in any manner demonstrating malice, oppression, or fraud, as required
to properly allege punitive damages with the requisite specificity against a
corporate defendant.” (Mot. at pp. 7:27-8:2.) 
But as noted by Plaintiff,
Defendants do not appear to cite any authority for the proposition that a
managing agent must be identified by name in the complaint. Plaintiffs also
note that “[t]he scope of a corporate employee’s discretion and authority … is
… a question of fact for decision on a case-by-case basis.” ((King v. U.S. Bank
National Assn. (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 675, 713.)  
In light of the foregoing, the
Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages.  
Conclusion

Based on the foregoing,
Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.   
The Court orders
Defendants to file and serve their answer to the Complaint within 10 days of
the date of this Order.
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  June 18, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court