 Case Number:  24STCV17603    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Jesus R.
Cuevas’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Set Aside Entry of Default
Defendant
Jesus R. Cuevas moves to quash service of summons of the first amended
complaint by plaintiff Sherry McAllister, as successor trustee of the Donald
Douglas Lemon revocable trust of January 8th, 2005.  “[O]nce a defendant files a motion to quash
the burden is on the plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the
validity of the service.”  (Bolkiah v.
Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 984, 991.)  
Cuevas
filed this motion to quash service of summons. 
In his declaration in support of the motion, he states, “My name is
Jesus R. Cuevas not Jesus R. Cuveas” as stated on the proof of service, “and I
was never properly served with the First Amended Complaint.”  (Cuevas Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff did not file a timely opposition to
this motion.  She has not met her burden
of showing valid service on Cuevas.
Defendant
Jesus R. Cuevas’s motion to quash service of summons is granted.  The court hereby quashes service of
summons of the first amended complaint on Cuevas.  The court hereby vacates defendant
Jesus R. Cuevas’s default as to plaintiff’s first amended complaint.Defendant Legacy Escrow
Inc.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Defendant
Legacy Escrow Inc. (Legacy) demurs to the entire first amended complaint by
plaintiff Sherry McAllister, as successor trustee of the Donald Douglas Lemon
revocable trust of January 8th, 2005.  
1st
& 2nd Causes of Action: Breach of Written Contract and Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for these causes of action.  To
allege breach of a written contract, a
plaintiff may plead the contract’s legal effect, attach a copy, or plead its
terms verbatim.  (Miles v. Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  A breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing requires an underlying contract.  (Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 230, 252.)
            Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
asserts Legacy breached a written contract by “wrongfully, unlawfully and
illegally with[holding]” funds from plaintiff. 
(FAC, ¶ 13.)  But the first
amended complaint never alleges the nature of the contract or its legal
effects, does not allege its terms verbatim, and does not include a copy.  It refers to “the terms and conditions set
forth in the escrow contract” (¶ 29) without alleging those terms or why
plaintiff was entitled to $300,000 (¶ 11) under the contract.  The first amended complaint further alleges
plaintiff “entered into a contract with Defendant Legacy Escrow, Inc., who in
fact conspired with Doe Defendants to deny Plaintiff access to her funds and
refused to adhere to the terms and conditions of the contract.”  (¶ 32.) 
None of the allegations suffice to apprise Legacy of the basis for
plaintiff’s first and second causes of action. 

3rd
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Misrepresentation
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  Intentional
misrepresentation requires: “(a) misrepresentation; (b) defendant’s knowledge
of the statement’s falsity; (c) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce action in
reliance on the misrepresentation); (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 1174, 1184.)  “[F]raud
must be pled specifically.”  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “ ‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud
claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege
the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
            The first amended complaint does not
specifically allege the elements of fraud. 
It alleges Legacy “by and through their current owner (Sherrie Suanico)
conspired with Defendant ‘Cuevas’ to cause a stop on the payment owed to
Plaintiff.”  (FAC, ¶ 43.)  It further alleges Legacy “by and through its
current owner (Sherrie Suanico) and Defendant ‘Cuevas’ collectively conspired
together to prepare false documents designed to suggest that ‘Cuevas’ had some
sort of claim when nothing could be further from the truth.”  (¶ 49.) 
Plaintiff does not specifically allege when or by what means any of
these events happened.  Nor does she
specifically allege the misrepresentation Legacy made to her or how she relied
on that misrepresentation.
Disposition
Defendant
Legacy Escrow Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff Sherry McAllister’s entire first
amended complaint is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.