


[1]              The motion was filed on October 16,
2023 and set for hearing on November 7, 2023. A proof of service filed
concurrently with the motion reflects that it was served via email on October
16, 2023. However, on October 17, 2023, Defendants filed two additional proofs
of service, which reflect that a copy of the moving papers was (1) personally
“dropped off” on October 16, 2023 to Plaintiff’s counsel’s address, which is a
P.O. Box and (2) left with Vanessa Cesarez, senior records assistant, at the
courthouse on October 17, 2023. The latter proof of service, addressed to
“Office of the Pomona Courthouse Clerk c/o Attorney, Mr. Cortwright,” was
accompanied by a “Declaration of Diligence,” wherein registered process server
John Duong attested that he attempted service of the moving documents at the
courthouse on October 16, 2023 but was “intercepted by security and told they
could not accept service because Mr. Cortwright was unknown. The security
officer further told me there was no clerk’s office, and then asked me to go to
Department K, but Department K will be dark until October 24.”
 
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address the proof of
service filed October 17, 2023 and asserts that October 16, 2023 email service
was untimely per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1005, subdivision (b) and 1010.6.
An October 16, 2023 email service would be untimely per the foregoing statutes;
however, this argument ignores the proof of service filed October 17, 2023. Code
of Civil Procedure § 1011, subdivision (a) provides for personal service on an
attorney whose only address of record is a Post Office Box, as follows:
 
                If upon
an attorney, service may be made at the attorney’s office, by leaving the
notice or 
other papers in an envelope or
package clearly labeled to identify the attorney being served, 
with a receptionist or with a person
having charge thereof. If there is no person in the office 
with whom the notice or papers may
be left for purposes of this subdivision at the time 
service is to be effected, service
may be made by leaving them between the hours of 9 a.m. 
and 5 p.m., in a conspicuous place
in the office, or, if the attorney’s office is not open so as 
to admit of that service, then
service may be made by leaving the notice or papers at the 
attorney's residence, with some
person of not less than 18 years of age, if the attorney's 
residence is in the same county with
his or her office, and, if the attorney's residence is not
 known or is not in the same county with his or
her office, or, being in the same county, it is
not open, or a person 18 years of
age or older cannot be found at the attorney's residence, then 
service may be made by putting the
notice or papers, enclosed in a sealed envelope, into the 
post office or a mail box, subpost
office, substation, or mail chute or other like facility 
regularly maintained by the
Government of the United States directed to the attorney at his 
or her office, if known, and
otherwise to the attorney's residence, if known. If neither the 
attorney's office nor residence is
known, service may be made by delivering the notice or 
papers to the address of the
attorney or party of record as designated on the court papers, or 
by delivering the notice or papers
to the clerk of the court, for the attorney.
 
Plaintiff, moreover, fails to provide any evidence of
his statement that “the parties had long since agreed to serve each other via
electronic means. . .” (Opp., 1:13). The court determines that service was
proper and timely. Further, “[i]t is well settled that the appearance of a
party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its
merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of the
motion.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925, 930.)
Plaintiff has filed a substantive opposition on the merits and has not
articulated any real prejudice.
 

