  Case Number:  23PSCV00962    Hearing Date:   November 17, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 12’s, Joe Pacheco’s, Perry
Hawkins’ and Carl Mendenhall’s Motion to Set Aside Clerk’s Entry of Default is GRANTED.

Background[1]  
Plaintiff Moore
Sweeping (“Plaintiff”) alleges
as follows:
In July 2019, Plaintiff was hired as a subcontractor by the
general contractor Guy F. Atkinson Construction (“Atkinson”) to perform street
sweeping services for Atkinson on a State Route 60 pavement rehabilitation
project in Los Angeles County (the “Project”) owned by the Department of
Transportation (“CalTrans”).
Pursuant to its subcontract with Atkinson (“Subcontract”),
Plaintiff was required to hire only
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 12
(“Union”) employees to work on the 
Project and to enter into a contract with the Union to
procure the employees needed to perform 
Plaintiff’s contracted-for work on the Project. Plaintiff
and the Union then entered into a Short-
Form Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”) which was
subject to the terms of a Master 
Labor Agreement (“MLA”) incorporated therein, In October
2019, Plaintiff contacted the Union 
to procure operators to perform work on the Project and was
put in contact with business 
representative, Joe Pacheco (“Pacheco”). Pacheco made
discriminatory requests of Plaintiff, 
asking for documents that were not required for Plaintiff to
perform its work on the Project 
which delayed Plaintiff’s start time on the Project. Pacheco
required only Plaintiff to obtain a 
bona fide special shift letter, intimidated one of
Plaintiff’s employees into filing a baseless 
grievance, failed to follow grievance resolution procedures
and stopped Plaintiff’s work on the 
Project. Perry Hawkins (“Hawkins”) was the district representative
and/or treasurer for the 
Union and Pacheco’s superior and assisted Pacheco’s
violations. Carl Mendenhall 
(“Mendenhall”) was the treasurer for the Union and assisted
Pacheco’s violations. 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Union, Pacheco, Hawkins, Mendenhall and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract 
2.                 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
3.                 
Unfair Business Practices (Bus. & Prof. C. §17200,
Et Seq.)
4.                 
Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation
5.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
7.                 
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
On September 5, 2023, Defendants’ defaults were entered.
A Case Management Conference is set for November 7, 2023.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . . Notwithstanding any other requirements
of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
Further, a default may be vacated on equitable grounds even
if statutory relief is unavailable. (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 981.) “Equitable relief may be based on extrinsic fraud, which usually arises
when a party is denied a fair adversary hearing because he has been
deliberately kept in ignorance of the action or proceeding, or in some
other way fraudulently prevented from presenting his claim or defense.” (Luxury
Asset Lending, LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2020) 56
al.App.5th 894, 910-911 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) “It occurs
when the unsuccessful party has been prevented from exhibiting fully his case,
by fraud or deception practiced on him by his opponent, as by keeping him away
from court, a false promise of a compromise; or where the defendant never had
knowledge of the suit, being kept in ignorance by the acts of the plaintiff. In
those situations, there has not been ‘a real contest in the trial or hearing of
the case,’ and the judgment may be set aside to open the case for a fair
hearing.” (Id. at 911 [internal quotations and citation omitted].)
To set aside a judgment based on extrinsic fraud, the moving
party must (1) “demonstrate that it has a meritorious case,” (2) “articulate a
satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to the original action” and
must (3) “demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once it had
been discovered.” (Moghaddam v. Bone (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 283,
290-291).
Discussion
Union, Pacheco, Hawkins and Mendenhall (collectively,
“Defendants”) move the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subdivision (b) and equity, for an order setting aside their respective
defaults entered on September 5, 2023 and any judgment subsequently entered
thereon, on the basis of surprise and/or extrinsic fraud. Defendants also seek
sanctions against Plaintiff and its counsel, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $1,000.00, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision
(c)(1)(A).
Defendants’ counsel Edzyl Magante (“Magante”) represents,
and/or the accompanying exhibits reflect, as follows:
Plaintiff’s counsel Dan Rowan Cortright
(“Cortright”) knew as early as May 22, 2023 that Magante’s firm represented
Defendants. (Magante Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. H). Additionally, on June 8, 2023,
Magante appeared at the hearing on Defendants’ ex parte application seeking an
extension of time to respond to the complaint. (Id., ¶¶ 2 and 11.) Pursuant
to the court’s June 8, 2023 order, Defendants’ responsive pleadings were due
July 17, 2023. (Id., ¶ 2).
 
On July 12, 2023, Magante emailed a
meet and confer letter to Cortright, conveying Defendants’ intention to file a
motion to strike in the event Plaintiff did not agree to amend its complaint to
cure certain perceived defects. (Id., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) That same day,
Cortright advised that he was discussing the letter with Plaintiff and that a
“substantive response w[ould] follow.” (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. B.) On July 13,
2023, Cortright emailed a substantive response to Magante’s meet and confer
letter, stating therein, inter alia, that “Plaintiff will agree to amend
and remove the language re punitive damages from paragraph 50 in the breach of
contract cause of action” and that “[a]n amended complaint w[ould] be
forthcoming either today/tomorrow.” (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. C.) 
 
Plaintiff did not file an amended
complaint on either July 13 or 14, 2023; consequently, Magante emailed
Cortright on July 17, 2023 to follow up on the filing of an amended complaint.
(Id., ¶ 5, Exh. D.) That same day, Cortright advised that he “was unable
to get it done last week, but w[ould] do so now.” (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. E). On
July 18, 2023, Cortright emailed Magante asking if Defendants would agree not
to move to strike punitive damages based on his July 13, 2023 email asserting
that the complaint alleged sufficient facts supporting punitive damages, if
Plaintiff amended the complaint that day. (Id., ¶ 8, Exh. FF). That same
day, Magante replied “[w]e need to see the amended complaint and then will
decide.” Cortright further replied, “there are more than ample specific facts
alleged to support the punitive damages allegations.” (Id.) Magante then
advised Cortright that “[w]e disagree, and Defendants reserve all appropriate
remedies per Code.” (Id.) On July 24, 2023, Magante sent a follow-up
email to Cortright, asking him if Plaintiff would be filing an amended
complaint or not. (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. G). Cortright never responded to this
email. (Id., ¶ 9).
 
On August 7, 2023, Magante learned from
an assistant at his firm that Plaintiff had served a Notice of Intent to Seek
Punitive Damages (“Notice of Intent”) at Union’s office. (Id., ¶ 10).
The Notice of Intent was not served on Magante’s firm. (Id.) On August
11, 2023 (i.e., a Friday), Magante received an “eServe notification” from One
Legal indicating that he was being electronically served with Plaintiff’s
Request for Entry of Default and Court Judgment and supporting papers. (Id.,
¶ 12, Exh. I). Magante was not provided with any advance notification of
Plaintiff’s intent to seek Defendants’ default. (Id., ¶ 12.) On August
14, 2023, Magante emailed Cortright, requesting that Cortright withdraw
Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default and file an amended complaint. (Id.,
¶ 13, Exh. J.) That same day, Cortright responded, essentially declining
Magante’s request. (Id., ¶ 14, Exh. K.) On August 15, 2023, Magante
filed a “Declaration in Support of Defendants’ Opposition to Plaintiff’s
Request for Entry of Default and Court Judgment,” indicating therein that Defendants
had reserved a November 7, 2023 hearing date for their motion to strike. (Id.,
¶¶ 15 and 16). On August 31, 2023, Cortright emailed Magante a copy of a
“Request for Entry of Default and Court Judgment” dated August 31, 2023. (Id.,
¶ 17, Exh. L.) On September 1, 2023, Magante’s office ordered a copy of the
entire court file, which he received on September 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 19).
The file did not contain Plaintiff’s August 11, 2023 or August 31, 2023 default
requests or Plaintiff’s default request dated and filed September 5, 2023. (Id.)
Defendants’ defaults were entered September 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 20). 
Cortright, in turn,
represents that his July 13, 2023 statement that an amended complaint would be
forthcoming was “based on a misunderstanding” he had with Plaintiff which only
became clear to him on July 18, 2023. (Cortright Decl., ¶¶ 2 and 3). He also
represents that he “was instructed by Plaintiff not to respond to defense
counsel’s July 24, 2023 email requesting the status of filing of the amended
complaint.” (Id., ¶ 5).
“Surprise,” as
referred to in Code of Civil Procedure § 473, is “some condition or situation
in which a party to cause is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any
default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.” (Credit Managers Assn. v. National Independent Business
Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 1166, 1173 [quotations and citation
omitted].)
The foregoing facts
reflect that Defendants were not notified of Plaintiff’s position that an
amended complaint would not be filed before Plaintiff first moved for entry of
default on August 11, 2023, and were thus taken by surprise. Cortright concedes
that he purposely did not respond to Magante’s July 24, 2023 email. The facts
further reflect that Defendants only learned on September 5, 2023 (i.e., the
same day Defendants’ defaults were actually entered) that the August 11, 2023
and August 31, 2023 default requests had not been entered. The motion is granted.
Defendants’ request
for § 473, subdivision (c)(1)(A) sanctions
is declined.


