  Case Number:  23STCV03838    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  74 Sky 2 C
Freight Systems, Inc. v. Valley of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests
for Admission (Set One) Admitted and Request for Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers. No opposition was timely
filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)
[“All papers opposing a motion . . . shall be filed with the court and a copy
served on each party at least nine court days . . . before the hearing.”].)
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a business dispute.
            On
February 21, 2023, Plaintiff Sky 2 Freight Systems, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendant Valley of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC (Defendant). The
complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) for goods and services
sold and delivered, (2) account stated, and (3) open book account. 
            On
October 5, 2023, Plaintiff propounded requests for admission (RFAs) on
Defendant.
            Defendant
did not respond.
            Plaintiff
attempted to meet and confer to no avail.
            On
January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to deem the RFAs admitted.
LEGAL STANDARD
            If a party to whom requests for
admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the requesting party
may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the requests
be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).) Further, the Court¿shall¿make this order, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) ¿
            While tardy
responses may defeat the motion, they will not avoid monetary sanctions. (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction [Citation] on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure
to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”].)  

DISCUSSION  
            The
court grants this motion because Defendant failed to provide timely responses
to the RFAs. Moreover, sanctions are mandatory. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd.
(c).) The court finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s proposed hourly rate reasonable,
and she has substantiated her request for attorney fees with a breakdown of
work performed. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 5.) 
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to deem the requests for admission admitted.
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Defendant shall pay
Plaintiff’s counsel attorney fees in the sum of $1,245 within 30 days of this
order.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.Sky 2 C Freight Systems, Inc. v. Valley of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set Two) and
Request for Sanctions
 
The court considered the moving papers. No opposition was timely filed. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b) [“All papers opposing a motion . . . shall be filed
with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days . . .
before the hearing.”].)
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from a business
dispute.
            On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff Sky
2 Freight Systems, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendant Valley
of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC (Defendant). The complaint alleges the following
causes of action: (1) for goods and services sold and delivered, (2) account
stated, and (3) open book account. 
            On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded form interrogatories (set two) on Defendant.
            Defendant did not provide timely
responses.
            Plaintiff attempted to meet and
confer to no avail.
            On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion to compel Defendant’s responses to the form interrogatories.
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            If a party to whom interrogatories
or an inspection demand were directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses without
objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b), 2031.300, subd. (b).)
Moreover, failure to timely serve responses waives objections to the requests.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) Failure to
verify a response is equivalent to no response at all. (Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) 

DISCUSSION  
            The court grants this motion because
Defendant has not responded to the form interrogatories. Moreover, sanctions
are warranted because Defendant has not provided substantial justification for
its failure to respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) Plaintiff’s
counsel’s proposed hourly rate is reasonable, and she has substantiated her
request for attorney fees with a breakdown of work performed. (Minassian Decl.,
¶ 5.) However, this motion duplicates in part Plaintiff’s prior discovery
motion. Moreover, the court will hear both motions at the same hearing. Thus,
the court will reduce the award to $455 (($395 x 1 hour for preparation of
motion) + $60 filing fee.) 
CONCLUSION 
The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s
responses to form interrogatories (set two). Defendant shall provide
Code-compliant responses, without objections, to the form interrogatories
within 10 days of this order. The court grants Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions. Defendant shall pay Plaintiff’s counsel attorney fees in the sum of
$455 within 30 days of this order.
Plaintiff shall give notice.