  Case Number:  22CHCV00276    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 RULING ON
SUBMITTED MATTER
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Iris Arnold, et
al. v. Brian Bauer, et al. (22CHCV00276)
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants Brian Bauer and Granada Hills
Charter School, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTIES:  Plaintiffs Iris Arnold, Setiawatin Beckman,
Angela Karapetyan, Sarah Olczak and Laurie Peachey
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:  Summary judgment or summary adjudication
 
RULING: 
Summary judgment is granted.
 
BRIEF SUMMARY OF RULING:
 
Plaintiffs were
teachers and staff members at a charter school operating under a charter
granted by the Los Angeles Unified School District.  The plaintiffs were fired after refusing to
take the Covid-19 vaccine pursuant to a mandate imposed by the school district on
all charter schools.  They sued the
school and its principal for failing to accommodate their religious beliefs or
medical conditions in violation of the state’s workplace anti-discrimination
laws.  The court finds that summary
judgment for defendants is proper because the charter school’s failure to
comply with the district’s mandate would have subjected it to undue hardship
and because the undisputed evidence shows that no reasonable accommodations
were available.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION:
 
Granada Hills Charter School (GHC) is an
independent public charter school operating under a charter granted by the Los
Angeles Unified School District (the District). 
GHC operates two campuses:  the
Zelzah Avenue campus for grades 9-12 and the Devonshire campus for grades TK-8.  The Zelzah campus was owned by the district
and leased to GHC, while GHC owned the Devonshire campus.  Iris Arnold, Angela Karapetyan, and Setiawatan
Beckman were teachers at GHC’s Zelzah campus. 
Sarah Olczak was a GHC student counselor at the Zelzah campus and Laurie
Peachey worked there as a purchasing assistant.
 
In August 2021, a few months after the
roll-out of the first Covid-19 vaccines, the District imposed a vaccination
mandate on all employees who worked in person at District campuses, including
its charter schools.  Charter schools
were required to certify by October 15, 2021, that they had complied with the
mandate.  Failure to do so, the District
warned, would be a material breach of a school’s charter and could result in a
variety of sanctions:  revocation of the
charter;  removing people and personal
property from the premises;  termination
of the charter’s right to occupy District-owned property;  or other steps to mitigate the impact of the
charter’s breach.  Any charter school sanctioned
for not complying would also be liable for any costs the District incurred as a
result.  (Bauer, Dec., exh. G.)  Reasonable accommodations that complied with
this directive were allowed by the District at District-owned sites.  Charter school operations carried on at
privately-owned locations could grant reasonable accommodations that allowed
for in-person work.  (Cite.)
Arnold, Karapetyan, Beckman, and Peachey
refused to take the vaccine based on their religious beliefs.  Beckman also contended she could not be
vaccinated due to a medical condition – allergies that gave her hives.  Olzcak declined based in part for religious
reasons but primarily for personal reasons related to her previous bout with
cancer.  Plaintiffs asked GHC to
accommodate them through a combination of masking, masking and testing, social
distancing, remote work, or transfers to the Devonshire campus.  Although disputed by plaintiffs, GHC
Principal Brian Bauer claimed that he evaluated the requests in light of the
District’s policy, the need for each plaintiff to work on campus, and the
unavailability of open positions at the Devonshire campus, and concluded that plaintiffs’
essential job functions required them to be on campus, that masking, testing,
and social distancing would violate the vaccination mandate, and that there
were no open positions available at the GHC-owned Devonshire campus.  As part of his assessment, Bauer accepted the
plaintiffs’ reasons for their requested accommodations.
 
Plaintiffs were fired after the deadline
passed and they had still not been vaccinated. 
They sued Bauer and GHC (collectively “Defendants”) for violating the
Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12940, et seq. (FEHA))[1] as follows:  The first cause of action by all plaintiffs
for religious discrimination by not accommodating their religious beliefs (§
12940, subd. (j));  the second cause of
action by Olzcak and Beckman for discrimination based on their medical
conditions (§ 12940, subd. (a));  and the
third cause of action by Olzcak and Beckman for failing to engage in good faith
in an interactive accommodation assessment process.  (§ 12940, subd. (n).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.  Summary Judgment Standards
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue
of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.
Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation
omitted).)
 
2.  Evidentiary Rulings
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections:
Declaration of Kim Vu:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3
Declaration of Brian Bauer:
            Sustained:
3, 6, 9, 14
            Overruled:
1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13
Declaration of Nicholas Weber:
            Sustained:
2
            Overruled:
1
Declaration of David Bensinger:
            Sustained:
4, 5, 8, 9
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3, 6, 7
Declaration of Tammy Stanton:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2, 3
Declaration of Gina Corpus:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1, 2
Declaration of Karla Diamond:
            Sustained:
None
            Overruled:
1
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            Declaration of Scott J. Street:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9
                        Overruled: 3
            Declaration of Maribel Campos:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8
                        Overruled: None
            Declaration of Lisa Benest, M.D.:
                        Sustained: None
                        Overruled: 1
            Declaration of Margarit Mooney
Clayton:
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 3
                        Overruled: None
            Declaration of Brandon Zaslow:
                        Sustained: 2, 3
                        Overruled: 1
            Declaration of Carmen Velasquez:
Sustained: 4, 8
(only the sentence that begins with “I was told…”), 10, 11, 12, 13
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 7, 9
            Declaration of Iris Arnold:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 6, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4, 7
            Declaration of Laurie Peachey:
                        Sustained: 3, 6, 8, 9
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4, 5, 7
            Declaration of Sarah Olczak:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4
            Declaration of Angela Karapetyan:
                        Sustained: 3, 5, 7, 8,
10
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 4, 6, 9
            Declaration of Setiwan Beckman:
                        Sustained: 4, 7, 9, 10,
12, 13
                        Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 5,
6, 8, 11
            Declaration of Sean Kaufman:
                        Sustained: 1, 2
                        Overruled: None
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Supplemental Declaration of Scott J. Street:
            Sustained: 1, 2, 3
            Overruled: None
 
 
3.  Brief FEHA Overview
Under FEHA an
employer may not discriminate against or terminate an employee due to their
religious creed or medical condition. 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  A
plaintiff claiming her employer did not accommodate a sincerely held religious
belief must make a prima facie case that her employer was aware she had such a
belief, that the belief conflicted with an employment requirement, and that the
employer failed to offer the employee a reasonable accommodation for her
belief.  If so, the burden shifts to the
employer to show that no reasonable accommodations were possible or that
accommodating the employee’s belief would impose an undue hardship.  (Soldinger v. Northwest Airlines, Inc.
(1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 369-370 (Soldinger);  § 12940, subd. (l)(1).)  The same is true for claims of discrimination
based on an employee’s medical condition. 
(§ 12940, subd. (n).)  For
employees seeking an accommodation based on a medical condition or physical
disability, employers must engage in a timely, good faith interactive process
to determine whether a reasonable accommodation exists.  (§ 12940, subd. (n).)
            “Undue
hardship” means an action requiring significant difficulty or expense, when
considered in light of five factors:  (1)
the nature and cost of the accommodation; (2) the overall financial resources
of the facilities involved in providing the accommodation, along with its
effect or impact on the facility’s operations; (3) the overall financial
resources of the covered facility, the size of the business with respect to the
number of employees, and the number, type, and location of its facilities; (4)
the type of operations, including the composition, structure, and  functions of the company’s workforce; and (5)
the geographic separateness or administrative or fiscal relationship of the
facility or facilities.  (§ 12926, subd. (u).)
            Because
FEHA and federal antidiscrimination statutes are so similar, our courts look to
cases interpreting federal law for guidance. 
(Pollock v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th
918, 937.)  Unpublished federal court
decisions are also citable as persuasive authority.  (Barriga v. 99 Cents Only Stores LLC (2020)
51 Cal.App.5th 299, 316, fn. 8.)
 
            4.  The District’s Vaccine Mandate Created an
Undue Hardship
            There
is no dispute that the District imposed the vaccination mandate, along with the
sanctions it could impose on charter schools that violated the policy by allowing
unvaccinated employees to work on District-owned campuses.  (Pltfs. Sep. Statement Response, Nos. 13-14, 18-24;  Depo. Of District Chief Human Resources
Officer Francisco Serrato, pp. 40-43, 57 [confirming that the policy was
mandatory and precluded any unvaccinated charter school employee from being
present on District-owned campuses].)
            An
undue hardship is one that is, at a minimum, something hard to bear.  (Groff v. DeJoy (2024) 600 U.S. 447,
468-469.)  The burden must be substantial
in the overall context of an employer’s business.  (Id. at p. 468.)  When analyzing the issues, courts must consider
all relevant factors in the case and weigh any substantial increased costs in
relation to the conduct of the defendant business.  (Id. at p. 470.)  Federal courts consider both economic and
non-economic costs when making this determination.  The latter includes the costs to an
employer’s mission and potential safety risks. 
(See Lavelle-Hayden v. Legacy Health (D. Oregon 2024) ___
F.Supp.3d ___, 2024 WL 3822712, pp. 9-10 [summary judgment granted for hospital
that fired employees for refusing to take the Covid-19 vaccine].)
Defendants contend
that the District’s vaccination policy and its concomitant threat of sanctions
– up to and including loss of GHS’s charter – posed an undue hardship and that
there was no way to accommodate plaintiffs’ religious or medical issues without
violating that mandate.  Losing its
charter or being forced to move its Zelzah campus posed a risk of great
economic loss for GHC, defendants contend. 

 Plaintiffs do not dispute that those
sanctions, if imposed, would create an undue hardship for GHC.  They counter that:  (1) 
the mere potential for loss of its charter did not create an undue
hardship, especially because the relationship between the District and GHS was merely
contractual;  and (2) the fact that an
unvaccinated employee at another District-chartered school was allowed to work
on campus without incurring sanctions raises a triable issue of fact as to
whether the District would have sanctioned GHC had it allowed plaintiffs to remain
at the Zelzah location.
Plaintiffs cite
two Ninth Circuit decisions to support their contention that the mere potential
of sanctions does not establish undue hardship as a matter of law:  Tooley v. Martin-Marietta Corp. (9th
Cir. 1988) 648 F.2d 1239, 1243 (Tooley) and Anderson v. General
Dynamics Convair Aerospace Division (9th Cir. 1978) 589 F.2d
397, 402 (Anderson).)  Both are
inapplicable.
Tooley and Anderson
involved identical factual scenarios. 
The plaintiffs in both were employees who refused to pay union dues
because doing so violated their religious beliefs.  Both plaintiffs offered to pay the amount of
those dues to a non-sectarian charity of their unions’ choice.  In both, the courts held that the plaintiffs
failed to produce evidence that the requested accommodation created an undue
hardship for the unions.  The Anderson
Court held that the union’s alleged hardship was based on nothing more than its
members’ “general sentiment” against so-called “free riders.”  (Anderson, supra, 589 F.2d at p. 402.)  The Tooley Court found that even after
accommodating such beliefs the union was left with ample funds to support its
activities.  (Tooley, supra, 648
F.2d at p. 1243.)  On those facts, both
courts held, the claims of undue hardship were only assumptions or opinions
based on hypothetical facts.  (Ibid.)
            When
evaluating whether an employee’s requested accommodation is reasonable, an
employer does not have to wait for a potential burden to materialize and may
make its undue hardship determination based on the information available to it at
the time.  (EEOC v. Firestone Fibers
& Textiles Co. (4th Cir. 2008) 515 F.3d 307, 317;  Weber v. Roadway Express, Inc. (5th
Cir. 2000) 199 F.3d 270, 275;  Hailey
v. Legacy Health (D. Oregon 2024) 2024 WL 4253238, p. 15;  Favero v. Huntsville Independent School
District (S.D. Texas 1996) 939 F.Supp. 1281, 1293  [employer’s undue hardship determination
cannot be reviewed in hindsight].)
            The
potential for liability – civil or criminal – is sufficient to create an undue
hardship.  (Berry v. Dept. of Social
Services (9th Cir. 2006) 447 F.3d 642, 655  [state agency not required to allow employee
to violate the constitution by discussing his religious beliefs with clients or
displaying religious symbols at his work station];  Bathia v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (9th
Cir. 1984) 734 F.2d 1382, 1384  [employer
not required to risk liability for violating state safety regulations];  Creger v. United Launch Alliance LLC
(N.D. Alabama 2021) 571 F.Supp.3d 1256, 1264-1265, italics added  [federal contractor operating under a
contract that required Covid-19 vaccination of all employees faced undue
hardship from “potential loss of government contracts,” among other
factors].)
            The
undisputed facts of this case fall squarely within the holdings of these
decisions and outside those of Tooley and Anderson.  In the latter, the hardship evidence was
either pure guesswork as in Tooley or showed that no hardship existed as
in Anderson.  Unlike those cases, it
is undisputed that the District issued its vaccination mandate and required all
charter schools to comply or face sanctions that could shut them down.  That GHS operated under a contract with the
District is irrelevant to the potential harm that could ensue should it breach
that contract by failing to comply with the District’s mandate.  (See Creger v. United Launch Alliance LLC,
supra, 571 F.Supp.3d 1256 at pp. 1264-1265.)[2]
 
            5.  A Religious Exemption Granted by Another
Charter School Does Not
                Raise a Triable Issue of Fact as To Whether
an Undue Hardship Existed
            Carmen
Velasquez was a counselor at the Vaughn charter school who was granted a
religious exemption from taking the Covid-19 vaccine and allowed to remain  on campus so long as she wore a mask and
tested weekly.  Velasquez worked in
person at Vaughn’s MIT campus until May 2022, when the District learned about
the accommodation and complained to Vaughn, which responded by moving Velasquez
to another campus.  (Depo. of Vaughn CEO
Fidel Ramirez, 42: 5-16, 46:1-17.) 
Because there is no evidence that the District imposed any sanctions on
Vaughn or even considered doing so, plaintiffs contend a triable issue of fact
exists as to whether the District would have sanctioned GHC had it granted them
in-person accommodations.
            Plaintiffs’
contention is flawed.  As Defendants
point out, and as previously discussed, whether an undue hardship existed is
measured by the facts known to them at the time.  Vaughn granted Velazquez’s exemption in 2021
but the District did not learn of it until May 2022, at which time, according
to Ramirez, the District pressured Vaughn to move Velasquez elsewhere.  There is no evidence that Defendants knew
what Vaughn had done before they fired Plaintiffs and there was surely no way
that Defendants could have known about the District’s May 2022 response when
they enforced the District’s vaccination mandate and fired plaintiffs in late
2021.  Applying Plaintiffs’ reasoning
here  would be little different than
holding Defendants liable because 18 months after the fact the District
announced a change in its policy and removed sanctions from its vaccination
mandate.  Either scenario requires an
exercise in hindsight, which the law does not require.
            Alternatively,
the evidence shows that Vaughn did not violate the District’s policy at all.  Velasquez worked as a counselor at a
Vaughn-owned site named MIT that was across the street from a District-owned
site named Mainland.  According to Vaughn
CEO Ramirez, Velasquez worked exclusively at the MIT site and was not allowed
to enter the Mainland campus.  Ramirez
testified that any contention that unvaccinated employees were allowed onto the
Mainland campus was false.  In short,
Velasquez was allowed to be on campus without vaccinating (but with masking and
testing) at Vaughn’s privately-owned MIT campus, which did not violate the
District’s policy.
            In
response, Plaintiffs contend that both Vaughn and the District considered the
MIT and Mainland locations to be one campus, meaning that Velasquez was allowed
to work at a District-owned site.  The
evidence relied on does not support that contention.  The first is from the deposition testimony of
former Vaughn human resources official Cynthia Avina, who was asked whether
Vaughn employees at campuses other than Mainland (which would have to mean
Vaughn’s three privately-owned sites) were granted vaccine accommodations.  Avina testified:  “One that was not – that shared space with
Mainland is the middle school.  And there
was one in particular who was going to be shifted to the high school as a
counselor.  But I know there was hesitation
when I was there.  And during that time,
I was also shifted back to my regular duties and the HR director took over.”  Asked if the MIT middle school  shared classrooms with Mainland, Avina
answered “Correct,” and confirmed that the Mainland campus included students in
grades four through eight.”  (Avina
Depo., 25:14-24; 27:19-28:6.)
            At
best this testimony is ambiguous as to how the Vaughn-owned MIT location where
Velasquez worked was viewed for purposes of the District’s Covid-19 vaccination
policy.  At most it provides insufficient
clarity to raise an inference either way, especially when it fails to
acknowledge that the MIT campus was physically separate from the Mainland
campus and was located across the street. 
Moreover, it sheds no light on how the Defendants viewed the
situation.
            Plaintiffs
contend that an email chain attached as an exhibit to the deposition of Serrato
also shows that the District considered MIT and Mainland to be one campus for
purposes of the District’s vaccination policy which, if true, would show that
Vaughn violated the policy but incurred no sanctions for accommodating
Velasquez’s request to work at MIT.  The
May 10, 2022, email is from District Employee Christian Mendez to Vaughn CEO
Ramirez in response to complaints that Vaughn was allowing unvaccinated
employees to work onsite.  Mendez wrote
that “Vaughn occupies three private sites and one District site as a sole
occupant,” which plaintiffs contend shows that the District also considered
Mainland and MIT to be one location for purposes of its vaccination policy.
            Mendez’s
email goes on to remind Ramirez that the District had separate vaccination
policies for District-owned and privately-owned charter school sites.  As to the first, no access was allowed
without proof of vaccination.  As to the
latter, qualified unvaccinated employees could remain on site if they received
a reasonable accommodation and were not permitted to access District-owned
sites.  (Serrato Depo, Exh. A., p. 4.)  In response, Ramirez assured Mendez that
unvaccinated employees had been allowed to work at only privately-owned sites.
            This
evidence does not raise a triable issue of fact that Vaughn was not sanctioned
by the District after the District learned that Velasquez had been allowed to
work on a District-owned site.  If
anything, it confirms the distinction between the two types of sites,
demonstrates the District’s concern that Vaughn might have violated the
District’s policy, and confirms that Vaughn had not violated the vaccination
policy by allowing Velasquez to work at the privately-owned MIT location.  (Serrato depo, etc.)
            In
short, plaintiffs have failed to raise a triable issue of fact concerning
whether the available sanctions for violating the District’s Covid-19
vaccination policy created an undue hardship for defendants.  As a result, plaintiffs’ contention that GHC
should have accommodated them by allowing them to work on campus through
testing, masking, social distancing, or some combination of all three options,
necessarily fails.
 
            6.  Off-Campus Accommodations Were Not
Available
                        A. 
The Teacher Plaintiffs Could Not Work Remotely
            Defendants’
motion included several statements of supposedly undisputed fact to support
their contention that Plaintiffs could not have been accommodated by being
allowed to work remotely.  Plaintiffs did
not dispute three of these (facts 91-93). 
Their lone evidentiary support to counter several others (facts 94-103)
came from the declaration of former GHC board member Maribel Campos.  However, the court sustained Defendants’
objections to the entire Campos declaration, leaving the following as undisputed
facts.
            Facts
91-93:  GHC’s remote learning program was
taught by teachers who were employed by an outside contractor.  Although GHC employees served as advisors and
administrators for the remote learning program, no such positions were
available in Fall 2021.  Those positions
are classified, not certificated, and under GHC’s collective bargaining
agreement certificated teachers could not be transferred to classified
positions.
            Facts
94-103:  Those three plaintiffs could not
work remotely because their essential job functions – teaching and maintaining
discipline – could not be performed from a remote location while students were
in a classroom.  The teachers could not
interact effectively with their students, motivate their students, or intervene
when needed to impose discipline.  Remote
work would prevent them from formulating lesson plans based on one-to-one
interactions with students, or from properly assessing their work.  Remote work would also prevent in person, on
campus meetings with students, parents, or staff.  Nor could they cover for other teachers when
needed.  Finally, it would unfairly
disadvantage their students as opposed to others whose teachers had complied
with the vaccination mandate and were therefore teaching on campus.
            Fact
87:  Defendants’ undisputed fact no. 87
stated that plaintiffs could not have been transferred to the GHC-owned
Devonshire campus because there were no available teaching or counseling positions
for them there.  Although plaintiffs
dispute this as to Olczak and Peachey, they did not dispute it as to the three
teacher plaintiffs.  As Defendants point
out, they were not required to create new positions to accommodate
Plaintiffs.  (Scotch v. Art Institute
of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1011-1012.)
            Based
on these now undisputed facts, the court finds that remote teaching was not a
possible accommodation because it would prevent the teacher plaintiffs from
performing their essential job functions and that relocation to another campus
was also not an available option.
 
            B.  Counselor Olczak Could Not Work Remotely
                 And Changing Locations Was Not Possible
             Olczak concedes that the following facts are
undisputed.
            Facts
104-107:  She was responsible for
coordinating with a particular group of students and their teachers to make
sure the students’ plan recommendations were being implemented.  This included counseling those students,
meeting with them and making counseling assessments, monitoring their behavior,
academic progress and attendance, monitoring students’ behavior, and having
conferences with parents and teachers. 
She was required to perform lunch and nutritional supervision for at
least two weeks each semester and was responsible for administering certain
standardized tests on campus.
            Defendants’
undisputed fact no. 108 asserted that Olczak could not effectively perform
these tasks unless she was on campus in person. 
Olczak countered this in part with the Campos declaration, which the court
found inadmissible.  She also relied on
her own declaration, where she stated that she too worked remotely when GHC
went to remote learning during the 2020-2021 school year and that she was
willing to do so again.  (Olczak Dec., ¶¶3-4,
12.)  That Olczak worked remotely while
the school was shut down for on-campus learning and was willing to do so again
does not raise a triable issue of fact concerning whether remote work was an
available accommodation after on-campus learning resumed and the District’s
Covid-19 vaccination mandate went into effect.
            Although
Olczak disputes Fact No. 87 concerning the availability of work at the
Devonshire campus, the only evidence to the contrary raised by her comes from
her declaration at paragraphs 12 and 17-18. 
Those paragraphs state only that she proposed that accommodation, but it
was rejected by Bauer.  She also cites to
portions of Bauer’s deposition testimony at page 205 through 206, but they do
not address this issue.  As with the
teacher plaintiffs, Defendants were not required to create a new position
elsewhere to accommodate Olzcak.
///
 
            C.  Purchasing Agent Peachey Could Not Work
Remotely and
                 A Transfer to The Devonshire Campus Was
Not Possible
            Peachey
concedes that the following facts are undisputed.
            Facts
109-113:  As purchasing assistant, she
was the only person responsible for being the first point of contact for the
“steady stream” of vendors and school staff members coming into the business
office each day.  She was the main point
of contact for all school purchase orders at both GHC campuses, which included
handling hard copy requisition requests and handling on-site questions dealing
with purchase orders, deliveries, and returns. 
Peachey was responsible for directing phone calls from the school’s
general phone line and troubleshooting supply and delivery issues.  Peachey also had other assigned duties,
including ordering Covid-19 protection supplies and delivering them to
classrooms and helping relocate GHC’s business office to the District-owned
Zelzah campus.
            Defendants’
undisputed fact 114 asserted that Peachey could not effectively perform these
tasks unless she was on campus in person. 
As with Olczak, Peachey relied in part on the Campos declaration, along
with her own declaration, where she stated that too worked remotely when GHC
was shut down for on-campus learning and was operating remotely and was willing
to do so again.  (Peachey Dec., ¶¶ 3-4,
11.)  As with Olczak, these assertions are
irrelevant to the availability of remote work once GHC resumed on-campus
instruction and the District had implemented its vaccination mandate.
            Peachey
also contends that she could have worked at the Devonshire campus, but this
contention is overcome by the undisputed fact that her job duties required her to
be at the District-owned Zelzah campus.
 
            7.  Indefinite Leaves Were Not a Possible
Accommodation
            Plaintiffs
also contend they should have been granted indefinite leaves of absence while
the vaccination mandate was in place.  First,
GHC’s collective bargaining agreement does not provide for such leaves.  (Fact Nos. 115, 116.)  Plaintiffs’ opposition evidence to these
facts has either been stricken or does not rebut them.  Second, FEHA does not require indefinite
leaves as a possible accommodation.  (See
Atkins v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 695, 721-722
and cases cited therein.)
 
            8.  No Reasonable Accommodations Were Possible
            As
discussed above, the District’s Covid-19 vaccination mandate imposed an undue
hardship on Defendants that could not be accommodated by allowing Plaintiffs to
work in person at the Zelzah campus even if they masked, tested, or practiced
social distancing.  Nor were indefinite
leaves of absence a required accommodation. 
The undisputed evidence showed that Plaintiffs essential job duties
required them to work in person, not remotely, and positions were not available
for them at GHC’s other campus.  Because
no reasonable accommodations were possible, summary judgment is proper as to
Plaintiffs’ first and second causes of action for workplace religious and
medical condition discrimination.  ((Soldinger
v. Northwest Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 369-370 (Soldinger);  § 12940, subd. (l)(1).)  Because plaintiffs Olczak and Peachey are
unable to identify any reasonable accommodations that would have been available
had the parties engaged in the interactive accommodation process, summary
judgment is also proper as to the third cause of action for failing to do
so.  (§ `1940, subd. (n);  Miller v. California Dept. of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 261, 282-283.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For
the reasons set forth above the court grants summary judgment for Defendants on
all causes of action.  The trial date and
all other scheduled hearing dates in this matter are vacated.
Moving party to give notice.


