

Hearing Date:              August 8, 2024            
Case Name:                 Peter Ronen v. Daniel M. Bald
d/b/a Law Offices of Daniel Bald 
Case
No.:                    23STCV31807
Motion:                       (1)
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
                                    (2)  Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
Complaint
Moving Party:             Defendants
Daniel M. Bald and Law Offices of Daniel M. Bald

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Peter Ronen


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendants’ Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is overruled. 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is denied. 
Defendants to answer in 20 days.  
 

 
I.  Background
 
             Plaintiff retained Defendants to prosecute a
legal action for personal injury and property damage arising from a car
accident.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
failed to prosecute the action, incurring sanctions, including terminating
sanctions.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants
also failed to file the case within the statute of limitations.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants concealed
dismissal of the action from him despite Plaintiff’s inquiries.
 
            On December
29, 2023, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants.  On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants alleging (1)
breach of contract; (2) fraud; (3) general negligence.  Plaintiff also seeks exemplary damages. 
 
II.  Discussion
            
            A.  Demurrer to FAC
 
             Defendants demur to the second cause of action
for fraud pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e)
and (f).  Defendants argue Plaintiff
fails to allege fraud with specificity, because the nature of the
misrepresentations are not clearly alleged. 

 
            The
elements of fraud are: (1) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent
to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  (Civ. Code §1709.)  Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216.)
 
            Consistent
with the rule requiring specificity in pleading fraud, a complaint must state
ultimate facts showing that the defendant intended or had reason to expect
reliance by the plaintiff or the class of persons of which he is a
member.”  (Geernaert v. Mitchell
(1995) 31 Cal. App. 4th 601, 608.)  A
plaintiff must allege what was said, by whom, in what manner (i.e. oral or in
writing), when, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, under what authority
to bind the corporation.  (Goldrich v.
Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges fraud with sufficient specificity. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Daniel M. Bald d/b/a Law Offices of
Daniel Bald affirmatively misrepresented to him repeatedly from April 13, 2018
to January 2023 that he was actively “working on the case.”  (FAC, Second Cause of Action, FR-2.a.)  Plaintiff also alleges Defendant told him he
was no longer practicing law prior to referring him to another attorney.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff discovered later that the case had been dismissed from the
subsequent attorney’s paralegal.  (Id.)  Plaintiff also later discovered that
Defendant did not prosecute the case and did not inform Plaintiff of discovery
requests served by the opposing party.  (Id.
at FR-2.b.)  
 
            Plaintiff
identifies with specificity the nature of the misrepresentation, who said it
and when it was said. These allegations are sufficient.
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer is overruled.  Defendants to
answer in 20 days.
 
            B.  Motion to Strike
 
            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s requests for attorney’s fees, general damages for
medical expenses and emotional distress and punitive damages.  
 
            Defendants
fail to make a coherent argument regarding the impropriety of Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees.  Defendants
merely state that such fees are not recoverable in a legal malpractice action.  Defendants cite to Roberts v. Ball, Hunt,
Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 111-112 in support of
their position that fees cannot be recovered in a malpractice action.  However, Roberts stands for the
opposite proposition, citing multiple grounds for recovery of fees in a legal
malpractice claim, including contract, statute and where claimed as damages,
the tort of another doctrine.  (Roberts,
supra, 57 Cal.App.3d at 112.)  
 
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff may not recover emotional distress damages in a legal
malpractice action.  Generally, a
plaintiff may not recover emotional distress damages for legal
malpractice.  (Merenda v. Supr. Ct.
(1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1, 4. (disapproved of on other grounds in Ferguson
v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein (2003) 30 Cal.4th
1037).)  
 
            However, Plaintiff
does not only allege legal malpractice. 
Plaintiff also alleges a fraud cause of action, for which emotional
distress damages are legally recoverable. 
“Although damages for emotional distress can be recovered in a fraud
cause of action, such damages have been allowed only as an aggravation of other
damages.”  (Nagy v. Nagy (1989)
210 Cal.App.3d 1262, 1269.)  
 
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages for legal malpractice.  However, Plaintiff successfully alleges a
cause of action for fraud.  Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 3294, punitive damages are available for fraud, malice
or oppression. 
            
            Defendants’
Motion to Strike is denied.   
 
III. Conclusion
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the FAC is overruled. 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is denied. 
Defendants shall serve and file an answer on or before August 30, 2024.  