

Hearing Date:             August 8, 2024            
Case Name:                 Sanaz Afsar, et al. v. Bunker
Hill Tower Condominium Association, et al.
Case
No.:                     22STCV23623

Motion:                       Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Moving Party:             Defendants
Bunker Hill Tower Condominium Association and Seabreeze Management Company
(collectively, “Bunker Hill Defendants”)

Responding Party:      None as of August 7, 2024


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant Bunker Hill Defendants’
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is granted.  No opposition was filed.
 

 
            I.  Background
 
            Plaintiff
owns Unit 2301 in the Bunker Hill Tower high-rise in downtown Los Angeles.  Plaintiff alleges that on April 13, 2022,
Defendants Bunker Hill Tower Condominium Association (“BHTCA”) and Pacific
Water Tank Services Inc. (“PWTS”) discharged 2000 or more gallons of dirty
water directly into Plaintiff’s unit, causing extensive property damage.  
 
            On July 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against BHTCA and PWTS for (1) negligence and
(2) trespass.  
 
            On October
14, 2022, Defendant BHTCA filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Saied
Kashani, PWTS, VNH Enterprises, Inc. alleging (1) breach of contract; (2)
negligence; (3) equitable indemnity; (4) apportionment and/or contribution; (5)
declaratory relief and (6) declaratory relief. 
BHTCA  dismissed Plaintiff and
Saied Kashani from its cross-complaint on Jun 29, 2023.
 
            On November
30, 2022, Defendant PWTS filed a cross-complaint against BHTC and VNH
Enterprises, Inc. alleging (1) equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; (3)
apportionment; and (4) declaratory relief. 

 
            II.  Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement 
 
                        A.  Legal Standard
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6 states, in pertinent part: “(a) Any party to
an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors
shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of good faith or a settlement
entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged
tortfeasors . . . [para.] (c) A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasors from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasors for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault. [para.] (d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue.” Two procedures are available to obtain
a court determination of the “good faith” issue, either an application, which
may be followed by a motion contesting the application or a regular motion
filed by the party seeking approval.  (Code
Civ. Proc.,  §877.6, subds. (a)(1) and
(2).)
 
            In
determining whether a settlement is in good faith, our Supreme Court stated
that the trial court should inquire into, among other things, “...whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor’s proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff’s
injuries.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488, 499.)
 
            The intent
and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken
into account (i.e. the Tech-Bilt factors) including: (1) a rough approximation
of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2)
the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among
defendants; (4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
he would if he were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interest of the
nonsettling defendants. A defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.
            
            The party
asserting the lack of good faith has the burden of proof.  (Code Civ. Proc., §877.6, subd. (d).)  The party asserting lack of good faith should
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the objective of section 877.6.
(Tech-Bilt at 500-501.) A determination that the settlement was in good
faith would “bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., §877.6, subd. (c).) Any
existing cross-complaints for such claims would be subject to dismissal.
 
            While an
unopposed application for good faith settlement may be granted on bare bones
facts, an opposed application requires the Court to consider the settlement
based on the Tech-Bilt factors.  (City
of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at 1261.) This requires the
settlor to provide the Court with “sufficient evidentiary basis to enable the
court to consider and evaluate the various aspects of the settlement.” (Id.
at 1263.)  “Because Tech-Bilt
mandates a rough approximation of the settling defendant's proportionate
liability and consideration of all other defendants' proportionate liability
and consideration of all other factors that might affect the fairness of the
settlement as respects non-settling defendants, the affidavits, declarations or
other evidence should provide the court with the facts necessary to evaluate
the settlement in terms of the factors contemplated by Tech-Bilt.
Without the facts, in a contested hearing, it is impossible for a court to
exercise its discretion in an appropriate fashion.” (Id.)
 
                        B.  Application to Facts
 
1. Settling parties:
 
(1)  Plaintiff Sanaz
Afsar  
(2)  Bunker Hill
Defendants
 
2. Terms of settlement:
 
            In
consideration for a release of the settling parties by each of the settlement
parties, and a dismissal of the action against Bunker Hill Defendants, Bunker
Hill Defendants will pay Plaintiff $375,000 in settlement.  Bunker Hill Defendants have also agreed to
assign the causes of action in its cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant VNH
Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a C2C Restoration for negligence, equitable indemnity and
contribution/apportionment
 
3. Rough Approximation of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery and
Settlors’ Proportionate Liability: 
 
            Substantial
evidence (e.g., factual declarations) showing the nature and extent of the
settling defendant's liability is required for a good-faith determination.
Without such evidence, a “good faith” determination is an abuse of discretion.
(Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th
1337, 1348 (“questionable assumptions” in moving party's memorandum of points
and authorities insufficient to show settlement was reasonable); Greshko v.
County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834 (attorney's
declaration re settling defendant's liability insufficient where he failed to
provide specific supporting facts or expert opinion).  The ultimate determinant of good faith is
whether the settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person
at the time of settlement would estimate the settlor's liability to be.  (City of Grand Terrace vs. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal App.3d 1251, 1262.)  
 
            “When a
trial court considers the good faith of a settlement, it must determine each
tortfeasor's proportionate share of liability. The trial court's good faith
determination must also take into account the settling tortfeasor's potential
liability for indemnity to a cotortfeasor, as well as the settling tortfeasor's
potential liability to the plaintiff.  In
so doing, a trial court must consider each of the plaintiff's claims and
possible recoveries and the potential liability of the joint tortfeasors.” (Cal-Jones
Properties v. Evans Pacific Corp. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 324, 328.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
repair estimate is $1,815,360.  (Trowbridge
Dec., Ex. E.)  Bunker Hill Defendants
maintain their liability arises solely their negligent hiring of licensed
contractors to perform regular maintenance and subsequent emergency drying and
remediation services.  Defendants maintain
they are not liable for the bulk of the damage, which is attributable to
ServiceMaster due to their failure to adequately dry the unit.  Defendants maintain it was the failure to
adequately dry the unit that caused it to develop mold.  
 
4. Allocation: 
 
            “In the
typical one-plaintiff, multiple-defendants, personal injury action each
tortfeasor is potentially liable for the same injury to the plaintiff.
Therefore the full settlement by one defendant will offset a judgment against
other tortfeasors; no allocation of the settlement is required. But many
lawsuits and many settlements do not fit this pattern. In some, the amount of
the offset is uncertain because one settlement covers multiple plaintiffs or
causes of action with different damages, or because a sliding scale settlement
is used and payments by the settling defendant are contingent upon the degree
of plaintiff's success against the remaining defendants. In others, the amount
of the offset is clouded by injection of noncash consideration into the settlement
or, as here, by settling claims for separate injuries not all of which would be
attributable to conduct of the remaining defendants.”  (Alcal Roofing & Insulation v.
Superior Court (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1124-1125.)  
 
            “In a
situation where the cash amount of the settlement does not dictate the amount
of the offset, the settling parties must include an allocation or a valuation
in their agreement. A natural tension will exist between plaintiff, who
benefits by undervaluing the settlement in order to permit greater recovery
against the remaining defendants, and the settling defendant, who would want
the settlement value high enough to be approved in order to relieve settling
defendant from liability for comparative indemnity or contribution.  Requiring a joint valuation by the plaintiff
and the settling defendant should generally produce a reasonable valuation.”  (Id.) 
 
            No
allocation of the settlement proceeds is required.  There is a single Plaintiff and the causes of
action allege the same damages.  There is
also no noncash consideration in the settlement.  
 
5. Fraud, Collusion and Tortious Conduct:  
 
            Based on
the record, there is no evidence of fraud, collusion or tortious conduct
indicating that the settlement was entered into to injure remaining defendants
or cross-defendants.
 
6. Recognition that settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial:  
 
            Bunker Hill
Defendants’ settlement is less than if they were found liable at trial based on
Plaintiff’s repair cost estimates.  (Trowbridge
Dec., Exs. E and F.)
 
7. Financial conditions and insurance policy limits of
settling defendants:  
 
            The
settlement is not disproportionately low. As such, Bunker Hill Defendants’
financial conditions and insurance policy limits are immaterial. (L.C. Rudd
& Son, Inc. v. Supr. Ct. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 742, 749-750 (request
for discovery into defendant’s financial condition for purposes of determining
good faith settlement denied; financial condition of settling defendant only
relevant where settlement is disproportionately low).) 
 
            III.  Conclusion 

 
            Bunker
Hill Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.        
 