  Case Number:  21STCV26615    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  73 12/12/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YUN v. PICO BUILDING SUPPLY CO., et al. (21STCV26615) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Andrew Kim (Law Offices of Andrew Kim, APC) 
Counsel for
Defendants: Thomas Gelini (Bennett, Gelini & Gelini)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE COUNSEL (filed 10/17/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Substitute Counsel is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 19,
2021, Plaintiff Jung Won Yun (“Plaintiff” or “Mr. Yun”) filed this
action against Defendants Pico Building Supply Corporation (erroneously
sued as Pico Building Supply Co.) and Saviss Pico, LLC (“Defendants”).
 
Plaintiff brought this action with
causes of action for negligence and premises liability for injuries resulting
from a slip and fall that occurred on Defendant’s property. Plaintiff
alleges that as he was exiting from the back yard of the property of Defendant
Pico, he slipped and fell because “sand and dirt had been spilled from a big
truck of Pico.” (Complaint p. 4, 5.)
 
On November 27, 2024, the Court
granted Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement.
 
On
October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Substitute Counsel in Form of Declaration, arguing:  
·      
The
Declaration filed states that it is the Declaration of Jung Won Yun. 
·      
The
Declaration states that he requests the Court to substitute out his counsel
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Andrew Kim, filed a
declaration in opposition, arguing:
·      
Kim states the Motion is not genuine and was prepared by an individual named Jin Ree who
is claiming to have a claim to a portion of the settlement proceed in this
case.
·      
Kim states his client, Mr. Yun, never
presented a substitution of attorney document to him for signature.
 
No reply was filed.
 
II.ANALYSIS
 
In Plaintiff
Jung Won Yun’s Motion to Substitute Counsel, he submits a declaration requesting the
Court substitute out his counsel, Andrew Kim. The declaration of Mr. Yun states
that Mr. Kim refused to sign a substitution of attorney form. The declaration
further states he decided to substitute Mr. Kim out after being disappointed by
his work in the instant case and another case. The declaration also states that
if the motion is granted he will re-start the settlement process. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Andrew Kim, filed a
declaration in opposition stating the Motion is not genuine and was prepared by an individual named Jin Ree who
is claiming to have a claim to a portion of the settlement proceed in this
case. Mr. Ree’s email is on the top left-hand corner of the cover page of the
motion and his signature is on the proof of service. The first page of the
Declaration of Jung Won Yun states “I, Jin Ree, declare…” Mr. Kim states his
client, Mr. Yun, never presented a substitution of attorney document to him for
signature.
 
A reply was not filed addressing Mr. Kim’s arguments. 
 
The Court
does not find there are grounds to grant the motion. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Substitute Counsel is DENIED.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Substitute Counsel is DENIED.