 Case Number:  22STCV12829    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV12829




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Lizet Jimenez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on February 28, 2024 by Petitioner Lizet Jimenez (Petitioner) on behalf
of Claimant Jayden Miranda, age 16. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons: 
 
Petitioner did not complete item 12a(5). 
 
Attachment 12b(5) is incomplete. 
 
Petitioner requests $166,250 in attorney fees which represents
35% of the gross settlement.
However, the last page of the attorney declaration in
attachment 13a is illegible.  
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a proof
of service of such.
 