 Case Number:  21STCV24666    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV24666




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Diego Ruiz 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Diego Ruiz (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Christina Shores (“Plaintiff”)
deposition. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Gabriella Guthner shows that Defendant’s counsel
has requested alternative dates from Plaintiff’s counsel throughout the process
of scheduling Plaintiff’s deposition, but none have been provided. (Guthner
Decl. ¶ 7, 9.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On February 2, 2023, Defendant first noticed Plaintiff’s deposition
set for May 2, 2023. (Guthner Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff asserted the date
was unilaterally set. Defendant requested alternative dates in June 2023, but
Plaintiff did not provide any. (Id. ¶ 2.) On September 20, 2023,
Defendant served an amended notice for Plaintiff’s deposition, set for October
23, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff did not respond to attempts to
confirm the deposition, and it was taken off calendar. (Id. ¶ 4.)
Defendant served a second amended notice for Plaintiff’s deposition, set for
November 28, 2023. No formal objection was served, and Plaintiff failed to
appear. Defendant obtained a certificate on non-appearance. Plaintiff also did
not appear at a subsequent noticed deposition on March 4, 2024. (Id. ¶
11, Exh. 10.) 
 
Therefore, because it does not appear that Plaintiff timely objected
to the March 4, 2024 deposition, and has not provided alternative dates for the
previous depositions, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant requests $1,000 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
her counsel of record, representing a $200 hourly rate. The Court finds that
sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is excessive given the type of
motion and the fact no opposition was filed. Therefore, the Court grants
monetary sanctions in the amount of $600 (3 hours of attorney time).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Christina Shores shall
appear on May 8, 2024 at 2:00 p.m., or on a date mutually agreeable to the
parties within 30 days of this order, for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $600.00 against Plaintiff and her counsel of record,
jointly and severally. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 