 Case Number:  22STCV21891    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21891




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Strike Cross Complaint
(2)
  Demurrer to Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Cross Defendant Universal Protection
  Service, LP




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross
  Complainant Federal Express Corporation



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2022, Plaintiff Latita Swan Washington (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Federal Express Corporation and Does
1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that on July
11, 2020, she slipped and fell on premises owned by Federal Express Corporation
(“FEC”).  
 
            On February 21, 2023, FEC filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Universal Protection Service, LP, Uniserve
Facilities Services, and Roes 1 to 100 for breach of contract, equitable
indemnity, contribution, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
 
            Universal Protection Service, LP
(“Universal”), now moves to strike FEC’s cross complaint in its entirely
because FEC did not obtain leave of court before filing it. Universal also
separately filed a demurrer to the cross-complaint. FEC opposes and Universal
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd.
(b).) 
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from
an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  
The
Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative
to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 436.) 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . .
the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose
of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
According to the Declaration of Tobias Mark
Kane, it appears the parties have met and conferred prior to bringing this motion.
(See Kane Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a),
432.10.)¿ Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a trial date.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §428.50(b).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain leave of court to file the
cross-complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s complaint was filed July 7, 2022, and did
not name Universal as a defendant. According to the Court’s records, the Notice
of Case Assignment was filed July 7, 2022, and scheduled trial in this case for
January 4, 2024. FEC filed its cross-complaint against Universal on February
21, 2023. 
 
Therefore, because Universal was not named in the original
complaint, and the cross-complaint was filed after the trial date was set, FEC
was required to obtain leave of court before filing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(c).)
Here, there is no indication in the record, and FEC does not assert in
opposition, that it obtained leave of court to file the subject
cross-complaint. 
 
Therefore, because the cross complaint was not filed in
conformity with the Code of Civil Procedure, the motion to strike is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Universal
Protection Service, LP’s motion to
strike with leave for FEC to file a noticed
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. Said motion must be served and
filed within 30 days of this order. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a
proof of service of such.
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21891




MOTION


Demurrer
  to Cross Complaint 




MOVING PARTY


Cross
  Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross
  Complainant Federal Express Corporation



 
MOTION
 
On
July 7, 2022, Plaintiff Latita Swan Washington (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Federal Express Corporation and Does 1 to 50 for
negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that on July 11, 2020, she
slipped and fell on premises owned by Federal Express Corporation (“FEC”).  
 
            On February 21, 2023, FEC filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Universal Protection Service, LP, Uniserve
Facilities Services, and Roes 1 to 100 for breach of contract, equitable
indemnity, contribution, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
 
            Universal Protection Service, LP
(“Universal”), now demurs to the cross complaint arguing it fails to state a
claim and is uncertain. Universal also moves to strike the cross complaint. FEC
opposes and Universal replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that the responding party cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty,
the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading is
uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page and line
numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
According to the Declaration of Tobias
Mark Kane, it appears the parties have met and conferred prior to bringing this
demurrer. (See Kane Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court grants Universal’s request for judicial notice of exhibits A–F. (Evid.
Code § 452(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
First
Cause of Action - Breach of Contract
 
The
elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are: (1)
the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.”  (Coles
v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391, internal quotations omitted.)  “A written contract may be pleaded either by
its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached
to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it
requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement,
and avoidance of legal conclusions.”¿ (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v.
Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993, citations omitted.)¿ Terms of an oral
contract may be pleaded generally as to its effect because it is rarely
possible to allege the exact words. (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635, 640; Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  In
pleading the existence of a contractual relationship, “the complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by
conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).)”  (Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-59.)   
 
Here, the Cross-Complaint alleges the following. 
 
“Cross-Complainant entered into a contract with
Cross-Defendant UNIVERSAL PROTECTION SERVICE, LP d/b/a ALLIED UNIVERSAL
SECURITY SERVICES for said Cross-Defendant to provide security services at the
premises that Plaintiff identifies in her Complaint.” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 15.)
“Cross-Defendant UNIVERSAL PROTECTION SERVICE, LP d/b/a ALLIED UNIVERSAL
SECURITY SERVICES was the employer of Plaintiff at all times relevant to the
Complaint.” (Id. ¶ 16.) “Pursuant to the contract, Cross-Defendant
UNIVERSAL PROTECTION SERVICE, LP d/b/a ALLIED UNIVERSAL SECURITY SERVICES was
required to secure a release from Plaintiff which releases FedEx and its
affiliates from any liability for injuries that occur at the facilities,
including the premises that Plaintiff identifies in her Complaint, and
acknowledge that any such injuries sustained by Plaintiff will be covered by
said Cross Defendant’s workers compensation program, is solely responsible for
all workers compensation or other contributions for its employees, and is required
to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Cross-Complainant against any and all
losses, damages, liabilities, deficiencies, claims, actions, judgments,
settlements, interest, awards, penalties, fines, costs, or expenses of whatever
kind, including attorneys’ fees, that are incurred by Cross-Complainant,
arising out of or resulting from a third-party claim like Plaintiff’s.” (Id.
¶ 17.) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint does not specify whether the contract was
oral, written, or implied by conduct. There are no verbatim terms of the
purported contract, or any attachment to the cross-complaint. The
cross-complaint also does not sufficiently allege the purported breach. Therefore,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. 
 
Remaining
Causes of Action
 
Universal argues the remaining causes of action are foreclosed by
Labor Code section 3864: equitable indemnity, contribution, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. 
 
Under Labor Code section 3864, “the employer of an employee who is
injured as the result of the joint negligence of the employer and a third party
is no longer required to indemnify the third party in the absence of an express
indemnification agreement.” (E. B. Wills Co. v. Superior Court (1976) 56
Cal.App.3d 650, 654.)[1] “Thus,
no cause of action may be maintained against the employer for implied or
equitable indemnity or contribution, but only on the basis of an express
indemnity agreement. Otherwise, the employer's limited liability under Workers'
Compensation law would be largely illusory. (See Gonzales v. R.J. Novick
Constr. Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 798, 807–808, 144 Cal.Rptr. 408, 575 P.2d
1190.)” (Ralph M. Parsons Co. v. Combustion Equipment Associates, Inc.
(1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 211, 216, fn. 2.) 
 
Here, FEC has failed to
specify an express indemnity agreement between the parties. It also has alleged
that Plaintiff was Universal’s employee during the events of the underlying
complaint. Therefore, based on the authorities above, Labor Code section 3864
forecloses the cause of action for equitable indemnity and contribution. The apportionment
of fault cause of action similarly seeks to hold Universal partially liable for
Plaintiff’s damages, and therefore is similarly foreclosed. 
 
Turning to the final cause of action for declaratory relief, Code of
Civil Procedure section 1060 states in part the following: 
 
“Any person interested under a written
instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in
respect to, in, over or upon property, . . . may, in cases of actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties,
bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a
declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract.” 
 
In short, there must be an actual controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the respective parties. (Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592, 606.) 
“In
a declaratory relief action, the ultimate facts are those facts establishing
the existence of an actual controversy.” (Id.) Also, “ ‘an actual,
present controversy must be pleaded specifically’ and ‘the facts of the
respective claims concerning the [underlying] subject must be given.’ [Citations.]”
(City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 80.) 
 
Here, the declaratory relief cause of action similarly fails to set
forth an express indemnity agreement between the parties. Therefore, on the
face of the pleading, Labor Code section 3864 forecloses liability against
Universal. 
 
FEC requests leave to amend its cross-complaint to address the
deficiencies. Universal opposes, arguing FEC has failed to show it can amend
the pleading. In light of the Court’s ruling regarding the motion to strike, FEC
may file a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint within 30 days. The
motion must attach a proposed cross-complaint, addressing the deficiencies
described herein and address the propriety of granting leave.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Universal Protection Service, LP’s
demurrer to the cross complaint filed by Federal Express Corporation. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 
 


