  Case Number:  21STCV28557    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA
  ELENA ESPINOZA             Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LUIS CORNEJO, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 21STCV28557
 
[TENTATIVE] 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION IS
  DENIED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






Background
On
November 21, 2024, Defendant moved the Court to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
based on Plaintiff’s nonattendance at her September 16, 2024, IME. In opposing
the motion, Plaintiff alleged that she failed to appear at the IME because she
was summoned for jury duty and argued that her absence was justified due to
Defendant’s repeated rescheduling of prior deposition dates. On December 19,
2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion and awarded Defendant $3,535 in
sanctions. Plaintiff now moves the Court to reconsider its December 19, 2024,
decision. Defendant filed an opposition.
Legal
Standard  
A
motion for reconsideration must be made “…within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order…” (CCP §1008(a).)¿¿¿  
The
moving party must present new facts, circumstances or law in order to grant a
motion for reconsideration.¿ (See CCP § 1008(a); see also Mink v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)¿
The party seeking reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts or circumstances are claimed to be shown.¿(CCP
§ 1008(a).)
“Facts
of which a party seeking reconsideration was aware at the time of the original
ruling are not "new or different facts," as would support a trial
court's grant of reconsideration. (People v. Safety National Casualty
Insurance Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 959, 974.)
Further,
“…the party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new evidence but also
a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an
earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457
[emphasis added].)¿ The legislative intent
was to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party
offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some
valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995)
32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)
Discussion
While
the motion is timely, having been filed within 10 days of the December 19,
2024, ruling, the motion is procedurally defective for several reasons. 
First,
Plaintiff failed to comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 by failing to state by affidavit what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to warrant reconsideration.
Second,
facts known to a party at the time of the original ruling do not constitute
"new or different facts" under the statute. (People v. Safety
National Casualty Insurance Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 959, 974.) The facts
presented in Plaintiff’s daughter’s declaration regarding Plaintiff’s
nonattendance at the September 12, 2024, IME, specifically the claim that
Defendant canceled multiple prior IMEs, were argued in the original opposition.
Plaintiff was clearly aware of these facts at the time of the original ruling. 
Third,
even if the declaration alleges facts that are new or different, the motion
provides no explanation for Plaintiff’s failure to produce this evidence
earlier. (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457.)
As
to the substance of the motion, Plaintiff’s daughter’s declaration primarily
seeks to justify Plaintiff’s nonattendance at the IME but fails to identify any
new facts or circumstances that the Court did not consider in its prior
decision. The declaration merely reiterates the argument that Plaintiff’s
failure to appear was justified by Defendant’s prior cancellations. However,
this argument was explicitly addressed and rejected by the Court in its
December 19, 2024, ruling. The Court found:
“The
Court does not find persuasive Plaintiff’s argument that her failure to appear
at this IME is justified by Defendants’ cancellation or rescheduling of the
four previously set IMEs. (Opposition, pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff cites no legal
authority to establish that prior cancellations of IMEs by the opposing party
justifies the failure to appear at a properly noticed rescheduled IME.” 
“The prior
cancellations are, in any event, not relevant to the instant motion.”
Additionally,
the Court granted sanctions due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s failure to notify
Defendant’s counsel of Plaintiff’s unavailability in a timely manner.
Specifically, the Court noted:
“Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to notify Defendants’ counsel of Plaintiff’s unavailability due
to jury duty in a timely manner that would allow Defendants to cancel with the
expert and interpreter without incurring fees. Plaintiff’s counsel called
Defense counsel on Thursday afternoon, September 12, 2024, with less than 48
business hours before the [IME].”  
“Plaintiff surely had more than two
days’ advance notice of jury duty and could have relayed unavailability earlier
to avoid expert and translator cancellation fees, but failed to do so.”
The
sanctions of $3,535, comprising $1,160 in attorney’s fees and $2,375 in no-show
fees, were imposed due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s lack of timely communication,
which caused Defendant to incur unnecessary fees. Plaintiff’s motion and the
declaration attached thereto fail to address this issue and do not present any
new facts or law that would warrant reconsideration.
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is denied. As to Plaintiff’s request to
change the date of her defense examination due to her disability, the parties
are ordered to meet and confer on this issue and, if no resolution is reached,
schedule an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 