 Case Number:  23STCV07720    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HOPE
  GOLDEN 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 LYNWOOD
  J.H LLC, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07720
 
[TENTATIVE] MOTION TO CONTINUE IS
  DENIED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






On April 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present premises liability case, with trial set for February 7, 2025. On
January 14, 2025, the parties filed a stipulation requesting a trial continuance,
citing the need for additional time to complete discovery and prepare for
trial. The Court rejected the stipulation, finding that the reasons provided
did not constitute good cause. Defendant now moves to continue the trial for
120 days.
Defendant alleges that Plaintiff failed
to comply with the Court’s June 4 and June 6, 2024, orders compelling further
discovery response and cites Plaintiff’s obstructionist behavior during her
October 21, 2024, deposition. Defendant contends that even if Plaintiff
provides the outstanding discovery by the proposed January 10, 2025, deadline,
additional time will be required to analyze the responses and conduct follow-up
discovery.
However, the basis for Defendant's
motion remains identical to the previously rejected stipulation, namely, the
need for more time to conduct discovery and prepare for trial. The Court has
already determined that such grounds do not constitute good cause. Defendant
has not demonstrated any significant new developments or unforeseen
circumstances that would warrant reconsideration. Accordingly, the motion is
denied.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 