 Case Number:  22STCV27639    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANDREW WILLIAMS              Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DWAYNE
  MICHAEL CARTER, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27639
 
[TENTATIVE] 
MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS DENIED
  WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






 
Defendant’ motion to bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice to
Defendant raising this issue for the trial judge to consider, on its own
motion, at the time that the judge rules upon motions in limine.¿ Given that in the Personal Injury Hub system
this case will be tried by a different judicial officer than the one ruling on
this motion at this time, the Court finds it appropriate for the trial judge to
determine whether bifurcation is warranted.
The Court orders that the bifurcation briefing be included in the
trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in limine filed in the case.¿ The Court
recognizes that CRC Rule 3.57(c) states, “A motion in limine may not be used
for the purpose of seeking an order to try an issue before the trial of another
issue or issues,” and thus this order should not be construed in a way that
contradicts this rule.¿ Defendant may
direct the trial court to this order, which should not be construed to in any
way to bind the trial court in making a bifurcation decision on its own motion.
Based on the foregoing, the motion to bifurcate is DENIED without
prejudice.¿ 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 