 Case Number:  23STCV30302    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MILLICENT
  F FOGENAY                 Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERT MARTIN., et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV30302
 
[TENTATIVE] 
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
  AMEND
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






Background
On
December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the present case against Robert Martin and
Tyler M. Ryan for negligence. Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff was on the 110
NB in the fast track lane in stop-and-go traffic. Once she released her foot
off the brake to move forward, Plaintiff was rear-ended by Defendant Robert
Martin, who was initially hit by Defendant Tyler M. Ryan.” Defendant Robert
Martin now moves the Court for demurrer. No opposition is filed.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿
(Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d
716, 720-21.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.”
(E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly
pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) Before filing a demurrer,
demurring party is also required to meet and confer with the party who filed
the pleading demurred to for the purposes of determining whether an agreement
can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.) 
Discussion
To
plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege: (1) a legal duty owed
to Plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damage to Plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
The
Court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s complaint has not pled ultimate
facts as to all elements of negligence, particularly breach of duty and
causation.
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Martin rear-ended her vehicle after being struck by
Defendant Ryan. However, Plaintiff does not include any factual allegations
showing how Defendant Martin breached his duty of care. The fact that Defendant
Martin’s vehicle struck Plaintiff’s does not, by itself, establish negligence.
Plaintiff does not allege any ultimate facts as to Defendant Martin’s
negligence. For example, Plaintiff does not allege whether Defendant Martin was
inattentive, distracted, or otherwise failed to take reasonable precautions to
mitigate the impact of being rear-ended by Defendant Ryan.
Similarly,
Plaintiff fails to plead proximate causation as it pertains to Defendant
Martin. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Ryan struck Defendant Martin, causing
him to rear-end Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff does not include facts
demonstrating that Defendant Martin’s conduct was a substantial factor in
causing the harm. For example, Plaintiff does not allege facts suggesting that
Defendant Martin’s own actions, rather than the impact caused by Defendant
Ryan, were a substantial factor in causing the collision.
Without
such facts, Plaintiff’s allegations fall short of the pleading standard under Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.10(a)(1). Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. Given the lack of detail in Plaintiff’s complaint, there
is a possibility that Plaintiff can plead ultimate facts as to all elements of
her causes of action.
Traffic
Report
Defendant
Martin argues that even if Plaintiff properly pleaded a negligence claim,
Plaintiff’s submissions, specifically the Claim to the City of Redondo Beach
and the Traffic Crash Report, which Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of, contradict those allegations and confirm Plaintiff cannot
establish negligence against Martin.
The
Claim states Martin’s vehicle was rear-ended by Ryan’s vehicle, causing a chain
reaction that led to Plaintiff’s vehicle being hit. The Traffic Crash Report
attributes the collision solely to Ryan’s unsafe speed under California Vehicle
Code § 22350 and assigns no fault to Martin.
Defendant
Martin contends that by including the Traffic Crash Report with the Claim,
Plaintiff endorsed its findings and is bound by them, precluding Plaintiff from
contradicting these documents to avoid a demurrer.
The
Court notes that while it may take judicial notice of the existence of Plaintiff’s
Claim and the Traffic Report, the facts and findings within the report are not
judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.) Accordingly, the
traffic report cannot serve as a basis to contradict the allegations in
Plaintiff’s complaint.
       Government Claims Act
Defendant
also contends that Plaintiff’s Complaint is defective and subject to Demurrer
because it fails to plead compliance with the Tort Claims Act. As a police
officer for the City of Redondo Beach, Defendant Martin is a public employee
subject to the Government Tort Claims Act. Under Government Code section 945.4,
no lawsuit for damages may be brought against a public employee unless the
plaintiff has first presented a written claim to the public entity and the
claim has been rejected. 
Under
Government Code section 945.4, a plaintiff cannot bring a lawsuit against a
public entity for a cause of action requiring a claim unless a written claim
has first been presented to the entity. The Government Tort Claims Act applies
when a plaintiff sues a public entity or a public employee in their official
capacity. However, if Plaintiff is suing Defendant Martin in his personal
capacity, and there is no allegation that Defendant was acting within the scope
of his employment, then the requirements of the Tort Claims Act, such as filing
a claim with the public entity before filing suit, do not apply.
In
the complaint, Plaintiff is not suing the City of Redondo Beach, and there is
no allegation that Defendant was acting within the scope of his employment with
a public entity. Accordingly, there is no need for Plaintiff to allege
compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act. However, if Plaintiff amends
the complaint to include the City of Redondo Beach and alleges vicarious
liability, Defendant can bring a demurrer based on the Government Tort Claims
Act at that time.
Conclusion
The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend within 20 days because Plaintiff has
failed to plead ultimate facts establishing all elements of her cause of
action.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 