 Case Number:  23STCV02808    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JIMMIE LINDSEY                    Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FRED K. BOONE, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV02808
 
[TENTATIVE] 
MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE IS
  DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






Background
On February 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit alleging that on
December 16, 2022, he was attacked by two unrestrained dogs at 5739 Brynhurst
Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90043. Plaintiff names the City of Los Angeles as well
as Defendants Fred K. Boone, Emmanuel New Covenant Churches of Christ, Overseer
and His Successors, A Corporation Sole, and Chesley SB9 Project (collectively,
“Owner Defendants”), alleging they owned the property housing the dogs
responsible for the attack.
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Second Amended
Complaint. On December 2, 2024, the Court sustained the City of Los Angeles’s
demurrer with leave to amend. On December 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Third
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff now moves the Court for trial preference, and
Defendant has filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
A party who is over 70 years old may petition the court
for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the
following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)¿ An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a)
of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)
“Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the
court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date and
there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion
for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney,
or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.¿ Any
continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance
for physical disability may be granted to any party.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
“The issue under subdivision (a) is not whether an
elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled that she might as
well be absent when trial is called.¿
Provided there is evidence that the party involved is over 70, all subdivision
(a) requires is a showing that the party’s “health . . . is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [his/her] interest in
the litigation.¿
(Italics added.)”¿ (Fox
v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.)¿ The
absence of specifics regarding plaintiff’s prognosis is insufficient reason to
deny a request for calendar preference.¿
“Subdivision (a) requires the granting of calendar preference to ‘prevent’
prejudice to a stricken litigant’s interests.¿
(Italics added.)¿ The idea that [plaintiff] should
be made to wait to file a preference motion until she is clearly in her final
days—when attendance at a trial is hardly what she should be doing—makes no
sense at all.”¿ (Id. at p. 536.)
“Where a party meets the requisite standard for
calendar preference under subdivision (a), preference must be granted.¿ No
weighing of interests is involved.”¿ (Fox,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at p. 535; see also Koch-Ash v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692 [“section 36, subdivision (a) . . . is mandatory
and absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise
the inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have”].)¿ Any inconvenience to the court or
to other litigants is irrelevant and “[f]ailure to complete discovery or other
pretrial matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial
preference for those litigants who qualify for preference.”¿ (Swaithes
v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff has met some of the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure § 36(a). First, Plaintiff has established that he is 85 years old and
thus over the age of 70. Second, Plaintiff, as the moving party, has
demonstrated a substantial interest in the action. However, the Court is not
convinced that Plaintiff’s health is such that trial preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing his interest in the litigation.
Dr. Carlos A. Gomez’s declaration, while detailing Plaintiff Jimmy
Lindsey’s age and extensive medical history, fails to demonstrate how trial
preference is necessary under Code of Civil Procedure § 36(a). The declaration
primarily focuses on past medical events, such as prostate cancer and coronary
artery disease, without providing meaningful details about Mr. Lindsey’s
current symptoms, their severity, or how they might impair his ability to
participate in trial. It lacks any explanation of whether ongoing conditions,
such as elevated blood pressure or coronary artery disease, presently or in the
future would cause fatigue, cognitive decline, or other impairments that would
hinder his ability to testify or assist his counsel. While Dr. Gomez mentions
Plaintiff’s heart surgery and current medications, he does not clarify whether
Plaintiff has made a full recovery or whether there are any side effects from
the surgery or medications that could impact his ability to participate in
trial.
Additionally, the reference to injuries sustained in a December
2022 dog attack is similarly unsubstantiated. The declaration does not discuss
any chronic pain, mobility issues, or mental limitations resulting from those
injuries that would affect Plaintiff’s ability to effectively participate in
trial.
Dr. Gomez’s recommendation for an expedited trial is largely based
on Plaintiff’s age, past medical history, and general statistical risks, such
as life expectancy and increased susceptibility to disease or death. However,
the declaration fails to show that Plaintiff is currently exhibiting symptoms
related to these risks that would prevent him from fully participating in
trial. As such, Dr. Gomez’s conclusion that Plaintiff’s death seems imminent
and that an expedited trial is necessary within the next four months appears
speculative and conclusory.
In contrast, the declaration in Fox v.
Superior Court provided specific and detailed descriptions of the
plaintiff’s current deteriorating physical and mental state, including “chemo
brain,” severe fatigue, and other debilitating symptoms that directly affected
her ability to focus, communicate, and effectively participate in trial. The
declaration in Fox established an immediate and tangible need for trial
preference to prevent prejudice, which is absent from Dr. Gomez’s declaration.
Accordingly, the motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 