 Case Number:  22STCV23746    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NATHAN
  STRAUSS                 Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WEERTS REAL ESTATE, INC., et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV23746
 
[TENTATIVE] 
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT IS
  GRANTED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 21, 2024






Background
On July 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability action
arising from an alleged incident on August 9, 2020, at premises located at
1042-1044 2nd Street, Santa Monica, CA 90403 (“Premises”). Defendants Kin Wa
Yung, individually and as trustee for the Yung Family Trust; Janet Rhee,
individually and as trustee for the Yung Family Trust; Kin Kwok Yung; and
Weerts Real Estate, Inc. (“Defendants”) are alleged to be the owners,
possessors, managers, supervisors, operators, maintainers, workers, and
controllers of the Premises. Plaintiff claims that Defendants' negligence
caused him physical injuries, medical expenses, loss of earnings and earning
capacity, and other general damages. 
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff and Defendants participated in private
mediation with mediator Robert Tessier. The case did not settle during
mediation. Subsequently, Mr. Tessier sent a mediator’s proposal to the Parties.
(Id.)
The mediator’s
proposal states:
“Defendant to pay Plaintiff the sum of $75,000.00 in exchange for Plaintiff's
acceptance of said sum. Plaintiff to be responsible for all liens he/she/they
have incurred. Plaintiff to execute a more comprehensive Full Release of All
Claims, which will include a Civil Code section 1542 waiver, and dismiss this
entire action with prejudice following receipt of settlement monies. Each side
to bear its own costs and attorney's fees.” (Exhibit A.)
On October 21, 2024, Defendants timely agreed to and accepted the
mediator’s proposal via e-mail. (Exhibit B.) On the same day, Plaintiff also
timely agreed to the mediator’s settlement proposal via e-mail. (Exhibit C.)
On October 23, 2024, Defendants’ counsel sent a release and a Request
for Dismissal for Plaintiff to execute. (Exhibit E.)
On November 12,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an e-mail stating:
            “Please give us a
call. In thirty years of practice, I’ve                         never had a client back out of a mediator proposal                (although I’ve
been the victim of it many times), but                       Nathan’s wife blew a gasket when she learned the                      amount (she’s his
primary caretaker), and to stave off a        divorce, he is rejecting the settlement. I apologize for the                   inconvenience this may cause you and your client. I             know we owe you
some supplemental discovery                  responses that we
will get over to you shortly. Again, I                      apologize.” (Exhibit E.)
Plaintiff has not yet signed the release to oblige by the terms of the
settlement agreement. Defendants now move the Court to  enforce the settlement agreement.
Legal Standard
CCP § 664.6 states: “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”¿¿¿  
Strict compliance with the statutory requirements is necessary before a
court can enforce a settlement agreement under this statute.¿ (Sully-Miller Contracting
Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.)¿ To enforce a written settlement
agreement under CCP section 664.6, the following three elements must be met:
(1) the parties must have come to a meeting of the minds on all material
points; (2) there must be a writing that contains the material terms of the
agreement; and (3) the writing must be signed by the parties.¿ (Weddington Productions,
Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 797-98.)¿¿¿  
¿¿¿      CCP § 664.6 “require[s] the signatures of
the parties seeking to enforce the agreement under [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 664.6 and against whom the agreement is sought to be enforced.”¿ (J.B.B. Investment Partners,
Ltd. v. Fair (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974, 985.)¿ CCP § 664.6’s “requirement of a ‘writing signed by the parties’ must be read to apply to all parties bringing the section 664.6 motion
and against whom the motion is directed.”¿ (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
306; see Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Const., Inc.
(2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 35-37 [“A written settlement agreement is not
enforceable under section 664.6 unless it is signed by all of the parties to
the agreement, not merely the parties against whom the agreement is sought to
be enforced.”].)¿ “A procedure in which a settlement is evidenced by one writing signed by
both sides minimizes the possibility of … dispute[s] and legitimizes the
summary nature of the section 664.6 procedure.”¿ (Robertson v. Chen (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1290, 1293.)
Discussion
The evidence shows an exchange of emails demonstrating that both parties
agreed to the mediator’s proposal. Accordingly, there appears to have been a
meeting of the minds on all material points, and the mediator’s proposal was in
writing, with both parties agreeing to it via email.
Defendant argues that Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6 requires a
settlement agreement to be signed by the parties. Defendant contends that there
is an email exchange by the parties’ attorneys and not by the parties, and therefore
the agreement failed to meet the threshold requirements of 664.6. To support
this position, Defendant cites Gallo v. Getz, (1988) 205 Cal. App. 3d
329 333, the court held that a signed letter from a plaintiff’s attorney to a
defendant’s insurer confirming settlement did not meet § 664.6's requirement
for a writing signed by the parties themselves. Defendant also cites Datatronic
Systems Corp. v. Speron, Inc., (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 1168, 1175 for the
proposition that stipulation requires writing signed by parties.
However, as defendant points out, CCP §¿664.6 was amended in 2021 to allow attorneys who represent a party to sign
the writing on behalf of his or her client. (CCP 664.6(b)(2).)
Material Terms
Plaintiff argues there was no meeting of the minds on the material
terms. Plaintiff cites the principle that a settlement agreement must be
sufficiently definite for courts to enforce it, asserting that if essential
elements are reserved for future agreement, the agreement is too indefinite to
be enforceable. (Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 50
Cal.App.4th 793, 810-812.) Plaintiff contends the settlement agreement was not
definite because it left essential elements for future agreement in the comprehensive
"Release of All Claims" sent by Defendants two days later, on October
23, 2024.
The question is whether the comprehensive release contained essential
terms that required further negotiation or merely incorporated details already
agreed upon. The language of the mediator’s proposal does not support
Plaintiff’s argument that essential terms were reserved for future negotiation.
The proposal contains no language suggesting that further negotiation on
material terms was anticipated or required.
Plaintiff then argues that critical issues, such as Medi-Cal
reimbursement, medical liens, and a Civil Code § 1542 waiver, were not
addressed in the mediator’s proposal. However, these issues were discussed and
agreed upon in the email exchange. The mediator’s proposal specifically stated
that:

Plaintiff would be
     responsible for liens, and
Plaintiff would execute a
     comprehensive release, including a Civil Code § 1542 waiver.

Regarding medical reimbursement and liens, the proposal clearly states
that Plaintiff would be responsible for all liens. In the context of personal
injury cases, this would typically include medical liens, as such liens are
typically part of a personal injury settlement.
Civil Code § 1542 Waiver
Plaintiff argues that § 1542, by its nature, requires an express and
specific waiver, which cannot be satisfied by a vague or implied reference in
an email. (Id.) However, Plaintiff fails to provide any legal authority
or rationale to support this assertion.
Moreover, the mediator’s proposal explicitly mentions a § 1542 waiver
and does not indicate that the waiver was limited in any respect or that its
terms were subject to further negotiation. In fact, the waiver would be part of
a comprehensive release, contradicting Plaintiff’s contention that the waiver
must be specific or limited beyond its stated terms.
Second, when Plaintiff agreed to the mediator’s proposal, no objections
or issues were raised regarding the § 1542 waiver. There is no evidence that
the scope of the waiver was intended to be negotiated further, nor does the
proposal suggest such an intention.
Third, the language of the waiver is standard and reflects a typical §
1542 waiver included in comprehensive releases. Specifically, the waiver
states:
·       “Releasors certify that they have read section 1542 of the Civil Code,
which provides as follows:
·       ‘A general release does not extend to claims that the creditor or
releasing party does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the
time of executing the release and that, if known by him or her, would have
materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor or released party.’
·       Releasors hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive all rights under Civil
Code section 1542 and acknowledge and agree that this waiver is an essential
and material term of this Release and this settlement that led to it, and that
without such waiver, this settlement would not have been entered into.
·       Neither this Release nor this settlement that led to it shall be
construed as an admission of liability by Releasees.
·       This Release expressly reserves Releasees’ rights to pursue their
claims, demands, actions, causes of action, legal remedies, or suits of any
kind or nature whatsoever.”
The language of the § 1542 waiver is consistent with what is typically
expected in a comprehensive release. It provides no indication that the scope
of the § 1542 waiver was unresolved or subject to further negotiation in the
mediator’s proposal.
Accordingly, the court grants Defendant’s motion.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 