  Case Number:  19STCV01820    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – WEST DISTRICT
BEVERLY HILLS
COURTHOUSE – DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS
ON (1) REMAINING SET OF MOTIONS IN LIMINE, (2) OBJECTION TO NOTICE TO PRODUCE
INCIDENT REPORT AT TRIAL AND (3) ADMISSIBILITY OF PHOTO TO BE SUBJECT TO AN
EVID. CODE SEC. 402 HEARING     
 
Edna Beteta v. LNR
Partners, et al., and related cross-complaints, Case No. 19STCV01820
Hearing Date: January
8, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
1.      
MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 4: 
Re: Impeachment of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony with
record of auto claim  
Denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 5: 
Re: Avoidable consequences rule not on point. No showing
anything avoided by going to health insurance for medical assistance. Pebley
v. Santa Clara Organics (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1266 on point
re: Plaintiff electing how treated. 
Granted. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 10: 
Re: Dentist Jessica Lizana’s expert opinion. However, she
can still testify to observations as percipient witness. 
Granted. 
 
USFP’s Motion in Limine No. 1: 
Re: Excessive number of non-retained medical expert witnesses.
No opposition filed. Need to identify specific witnesses, per LASC Rule 3.57. 
Granted.  
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 1: 
Re: Stating dollar figure for damages during voir dire
Denied. 
 
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 2: 
Re: Comments by Sifuentes re: mgm’t of project 
Denied. 
 
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 4: 
Re: Testimony of Solomon as to role of general contractor as
outside designation 
Granted. 
 
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 5: 
Re: Indemnity agreements between Prime and G & E
Granted. Irrelevant to liability. 
 
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 7: 
Re: Walter Prince e-mail to G & E
Granted. Hearsay. 
 
Prime’s Motion in Limine No. 9: 
Re: Lost earnings / earning capacity. No opposition except
as relevant to general damages
Granted. 
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 3: 
Re: statement by Plaintiff’s former counsel at deposition
that Plaintiff was not seeking general damages or for emotional distress 
Denied. Statement is contradicted by later response to form
interrogatories. No stipulation to not seeking these damages. Moving party’s
remedy was to have moved to compel further testimony at deposition or for order
precluding recovery of damages. 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 4: 
Re: Arguments premised on Reptilian theory and or Golden
Rule 
Denied. A motion in limine is to exclude evidence. No
specific evidence sought to be excluded. That said, counsel should not appeal
to jurors’ self-interest. 
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 6: 
Re: Request for spoliation instruction re: social media
accounts
Denied. Again, this is not a motion to exclude evidence. Regardless,
insufficient evidence of purposeful concealment of Facebook account or Instagram
postings to warrant negative inference. Remedy would have been to move to
compel answer at deposition. 
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 7: 
Re: adverse inference instruction for suppression of
evidence re: March 18, 2017 auto accident 
Denied. ISO record inadmissible. Moreover, even if offered
to impeach, does not make clear that Plaintiff was in an accident and states merely:
“falling object struck.” Unclear if this was accident which would make
deposition testimony untruthful.  
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 8: 
Re: Unpaid medical expenses / special damages 
Denied. The document requests did not specifically request
lien agreements. Even if agreements were deemed to be included in requests, G
& E could have moved to compel further production. Even if motion is not
required, it appears G & E secured from three providers. Not clear that Plaintiff
required to submit agreements with other providers to meet her burden of
establishing cost of services. That counsel also signed agreements – given role
in dispensing recovery to client – does not mean Plaintiff had not “incurred”
liability for expenses. Unclear why Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing is needed. 
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 9: 
Re: Adverse inference instruction re: non-disclosure of 2012
auto accident, July 7, 2015 slip & fall, and 2015 workers’ compensation
claim for carpel tunnel injury to right arm and shoulder 
Denied. Plaintiff disclosed the 2012 auto accident and did
not disclose other claims because was not responsive to requests for claims
related to head and neck that are at issue here. Even if slip and fall was due
to same vertigo claimed after accident at issue here, injury was to ankle and
hence why not mentioned. Insufficient evidence to substantiate “willful”
suppression of evidence.  Defendants can
still cross-examine Plaintiff and doctors concerning these matters.  
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 10: 
Re: Qualifications of Plaintiff’s standard of care expert
Philip Rosescu 
Per the ruling on November 8, 2023, at the hearing on similar
motions of other defendants on this issue, this is continued to trial. 
 
G & E’s Motion in Limine No. 11: 
Re: Jessica Lizana’s contacts with mall management
No opposition filed. However, issues of alleged bias and
lack of personal knowledge can be addressed by 
cross-examination or objections to questions at trial. The Court does
not see any significant prejudice to Moving parties that requires a ruling
before trial or matter that would make all testimony of this witness
inadmissible. Denied.  
 
WBCMT’s Motion in Limine No. 3: 
Re: Failure of Wendy Maravilla, Jessica Lizana’s assistant,
to appear for deposition. 
Denied. Not fault of Plaintiff. Witness not under control of
Plaintiff.  That Plaintiff seeks to call
her as witness does not mean Plaintiff had to make her available for
deposition. 
 
2.      
Objection by Prime to production of incident
report at trial: 
 
Overruled. That did not move to compel during discovery not
dispositive. Report was for management company, not counsel. Not in
anticipation of litigation where none suspected. No evidence it was privileged
or attorney work product.  
 
3.      
Ruling in advance of Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing as to
admissibility of photograph of square plates with attached circular pipes 
 
         Prior to the November 8, 2023 hearing
on the motion in limine of Owner to exclude this photo, the Court issued a
tentative ruling to grant the motion, finding in summary that the deposition
testimony of Susan Hill was insufficient foundation that the object in the
photo was what fell on Plaintiff. Hill had not taken the photo, did not know
who took the photo or how she received it and was not herself present on the
day of the accident to have any personal knowledge as to whether the item in
the photo was what fell on Plaintiff. 
          Hill appeared to have relied on John
Anderson, the general contractor’s on-site superintendent; however, he
testified that he did not know who took the photo either. 
         Likewise, the deposition testimony of
Gabriel Hernandez, the principal of the general contractor, did not provide
sufficient connection between the object in the photo and what fell. 
 
          At the motion hearing Plaintiff
argued, however, that she could offer other evidence to lay the necessary
foundation. The Court therefore denied the motion, without prejudice, and
instead set a briefing schedule in advance of an Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing as
to the disputed foundational evidence. 
          The Court has reviewed the further
papers filed by Plaintiff, the responsive papers filed by all four
Defendants, the reply papers of Plaintiff and finally the objection to the
evidence offered in the reply. 
          The court sustains the objection to Plaintiff’s
use of a defense expert’s testimony in the reply. This evidence could have been
presented as part of Plaintiff’s initial response so Defendants could address
in their responding papers. 
           The photo is indisputably an
important document. If what is depicted fell on someone’s head, a juror might
well believe that would inflict significant injury. Defendants argue under
Evid. Code sec. 352 that its probative value is outweighed by its likely
prejudicial effect. 
          It appears there is sufficient other
deposition testimony - which was not part of what was filed with the initial
motion and opposition papers - to warrant the Court receiving the photo into
evidence: 
          Plaintiff testified at her deposition
that the object in the photo was what fell on her. It does not matter for
foundation purposes that she does not know who took the photo. A writing can be
authenticated by circumstantial evidence and by its contents. (People v.
Goldsmith (2014) 59 Cal.4th 258, 267-268, People v. Skiles (2011) 51
Cal.4th 1178, 1187) She is not required to have taken it herself. It is not
required at least for these purposes that she does not know if it was this
precise object in the photo that fell on her or one like it. Defendants can
still cross-examine Plaintiff to put the photo into context. 
          The primary focus of the papers filed
concerned the conflict between, on the one hand, the recent November 2023
declaration of Daniel Sifuentes stating “unequivocally” that the objects in the
photo was what fell on Plaintiff and, on the other hand, his deposition
testimony from January 2022, during which he stated he did not recognize the
square plates in the photo and that the circular item that hit him weighed no
more than a pound. The Court sustains the hearsay objection to the declaration.
However, it is not clear if the Court needs to hear from Sifuentes on this
issue or for him to be subject to cross-examination so the Court can hear his
further testimony. There is enough other foundational evidence on which to
admit the photo:  
          Narbik Bandary testified both that he
was doing pipe demolition but also that what he was working on were just plates,
not as in the photo a plate with pipes. He denied that the object in the photo
was what fell on Plaintiff and believes that this object was from elsewhere at
the mall. Like Sifuentes, he testified that it was just the plate that would
have hit her. However, he still identifies what is in the photo as items that
he was working on - even if he denied the plate fell with pipe attached.
Similarly, Anderson also corroborated the work with the pipes that are shown in
the photo. 
           The Court finds that even without
Sifuentes’ testimony, Bandary, Anderson and Plaintiff still provide sufficient
surrounding corroborating context to receive the photo into evidence. The
inconsistencies Defendants raise go to the weight the jury should give the
photo. Defendants can still argue that what fell on Plaintiff was just a plate
and not the attached pipe, or a group of plates as in the photo. The jury can
then decide the conflicting testimony about what may have fallen on Plaintiff.
In the interim, the photo will show the jury what sort of work was being performed
at the time. The Court rejects the argument under Evid. Code sec. 352 that
potential undue prejudice outweighs its probative value. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 