  Case Number:  20LBCV00413    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Damion Timmons filed this action against Defendant, Right
Angle Solutions, Inc. for breach of contract and fraud on 9/24/20.  Plaintiff filed his operative First Amended
Complaint on 9/30/20. The FAC adds Duane Cook as a named defendant in the
action.  
 
 Plaintiff filed proofs of
service by substitute service on 5/07/21, and on the same day, at Plaintiff’s
request, the Clerk entered Defendants’ defaults.  On 1/11/22, the Court entered default
judgment against Defendants in the amount of $80,168.01, inclusive of costs.
 
2.    
Motion to Vacate Default and Default Judgment
On 6/04/24, Defendants filed this
motion to vacate the default and default judgment pursuant to CCP §437(c),
contending Plaintiff failed to properly serve the summons and complaint prior
to having Defendants’ defaults entered. 
Defendants provide evidence that, on the date of purported service,
Defendant’s facility was closed due to COVID and there were no persons at the
location.  
 
Any opposition to the motion was
due on or before 9/18/24.  On 9/24/24,
Plaintiff filed untimely opposition to the motion.  Plaintiff’s attorney declares he was recently
hospitalized and therefore unable to complete the opposition in a timely
manner.  The Court has read and
considered the opposition.
 
The opposition is based on the sole
argument that Evidence Code §647 creates a rebuttable presumption that a proof
of service completed by a registered process server is valid.  A rebuttable presumption is exactly that:
rebuttable.  Defendant’s moving
declaration rebuts the presumption, and in the absence of contrary evidence,
Defendants meet their burden to rebut the proof of service.  The motion is therefore granted.
 
Defendants’ proposed answer to the
complaint is attached to the Declaration of Counsel, Joshua Park, as Exhibit
1.  Defendants are ordered to file a
separate copy of the answer within five days. 

 
3.    
Future Hearing
There are no future hearing dates
scheduled in this case.  The Court sets a
Case Management Conference and Trial Setting Conference for October 31, 2024.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   