 Case Number:  23LBCV01005    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Legacy Transportation Services, Inc. filed this action
against Defendant, Landstar Ranger, Inc. for breach of contract, express
indemnification, and equitable indemnification. 
The crux of the complaint is that Legacy hired Landstar to transport
electric vehicle batteries from Michigan to Oklahoma, and Landstar, in
violation of the parties’ agreement, subcontracted the transportation duties to
non-party, G&K Logistics, Inc. 
G&K was involved in a collision, which resulted in a total loss of
the subject goods, which loss Legacy has settled with the goods’ owner for
$341,942.24.  Additionally, Legacy
incurred $218,279.79 in towing and recovery charges.  Legacy has dismissed its claim for equitable
indemnification, leaving only the breach of contract and express
indemnification claims pending. 
 
Landstar filed a cross-complaint against Legacy.  The crux of the cross-complaint is that
Landstar has provided transportation services to Legacy (not the services that
are the subject of the complaint), and Legacy has not paid for the
services.  The total due is
$254,211.98.  The cross-complaint
contains a sole cause of action for breach of transportation contract.  
 
2.    
Motions for Summary Judgment 
a.    
Matters on Calendar
Legacy and Landstar have each filed
summary judgment motions.  The Landstar
motion also includes an alternative request for summary adjudication of each
cause of action in the complaint and of the cross-complaint.  
 
b.     Stipulated
Facts
The parties have stipulated to the
basic facts that govern adjudication of their claims.  Their stipulated facts were filed on 6/07/24
and are as follows:
1. LEGACY is a property broker with
licensing from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the
“FMCSA”).  
 2. As a property broker, LEGACY arranges
interstate transportation by licensed and insured motor carriers.   
3. LANDSTAR is a motor carrier with
licensing from the FMCSA to transport cargo in interstate commerce.  

4. LEGACY and LANDSTAR were parties
to a May 19, 2019 Transportation Brokerage Agreement (the “TBA”) that was in
effect at all times material to this action. Attached as Exhibit “A” is a true
and correct copy of the TBA.   
5. Further to the TBA, LEGACY
arranged motor transportation of LEGACY’s customers’ cargoes by
LANDSTAR.   
6. On or about January 27, 2022,
LEGACY arranged for LANDSTAR to transport a cargo of 33 General Motors Company
(“GM”) electric vehicle batteries (the “Cargo”) from Belleville, Michigan to
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (the “Transportation”).   
7. LANDSTAR did not perform the
Transportation.  
8. LANDSTAR arranged for motor
carrier G & K Logistics Inc. (“G&K”) to perform the
Transportation.   
9. LANDSTAR did not seek LEGACY’s
prior consent for G&K to perform the Transportation.   
10. G&K received the Cargo in
good order and condition, but failed to deliver the Cargo in the same good
order and condition.   
11. During the Transportation, on
or about January 27, 2022, G&K was in an accident while westbound on
Interstate 44, near Rolla, Missouri, which accident damaged the Cargo (the
“Accident”).   
12. GM, the Cargo’s owner, made a
claim for damages to LEGACY in the amount of $683,882.48, which LEGACY settled
with GM by paying it $341,942.24.   
13. As a result of the Accident,
LEGACY also paid $218,279.79 to Big Boy’s Towing & Recovery, which
performed towing and recovery services at the scene of the Accident, plus other
post-Accident services.  
14. LEGACY’s complaint in this
action seeks to recover the monies it has paid to the above non-parties, which
total $560,222.03, exclusive of recoverable costs, interest, and attorneys’
fees under the TBA (collectively, “LEGACY’S ALLEGED DAMAGES”).   
15. LANDSTAR has not paid any
portion of LEGACY’S ALLEGED DAMAGES and denies any liability to LEGACY for such
amounts.  
16. Between November 2021 and
February 2022, LANDSTAR transported cargoes for LEGACY under the TBA for which
transportation services LANDSTAR invoiced LEGACY a total of $254,211.98
(collectively, the “Balance”). 
17. LANDSTAR’s cross-complaint in
this action seeks to recover the Balance, exclusive of recoverable costs,
interest, and attorneys’ fees under the TBA (collectively, “LANDSTAR’S ALLEGED
DAMAGES”). 
18. LEGACY has not paid any portion
of LANDSTAR’S ALLEGED DAMAGES and denies any liability to LEGACY for such
amounts.
c.         Parties’ Positions
Legacy contains Landstar is in
violation of provisions in the parties’ contract prohibiting subcontracting and
making clear that the duties under the contract are non-assignable.  It contends that, because Landstar violated
the parties’ contract, the contractual provision limiting liability is
inapplicable.  It contends Landstar’s
breaches of the contract triggered the indemnification provision, which
requires Landstar to pay for all damages Legacy incurred as a result of
Landstar’s breach.  Legacy contends
nothing is due on Landstar’s cross-complaint due to the doctrine of
off-set.  
 
Landstar contends its liability to
Legacy is limited, per the terms of the parties’ contract, to $150,000.  Additionally, it contends the parties’
contract expressly precludes Legacy from recovering consequential, special,
and/or incidental damages, which is what Legacy is seeking when it attempts to
recover towing and recovery charges paid. 
It contends Legacy has no defense to its claims in its cross-complaint,
and must pay for the transportation services Landstar provided.  
 
e.         Relevant Contractual Provisions
The following provisions of the
parties’ contract are discussed in their brief, and are relevant to
determination of the parties’ positions:
11. SUBCONTRACT PROHIBITION.
CARRIER shall not re-broker, co-broker, subcontract, assign, interline, or
transfer the transportation of shipments hereunder to any other persons or
entity conducting business under a different operating authority, without prior
written consent of BROKER. CARRIER shall not be released from any liability to
BROKER under this Agreement. . .  
 
22. NON-ASSIGNABILITY. Both parties
are expressly prohibited from assigning any of their rights or delegating any
of obligations under this AGREEMENT to any third parties (such as sub-haulers,
sub-brokers and any other form of substituted person or entity), unless the
express written consent to such assignment or delegation is first obtained from
the other party.
 
16. LIABILITY FOR CARGO CLAIMS.
CARRIER shall maintain the sole and exclusive care, custody, and control of all
shipments from the time the shipment is delivered to CARRIER for transportation
until delivery to the consignee accompanied by the appropriate delivery receipt
as specified in this Agreement. CARRIER assumes the liability of a common
carrier (i.e. Carmack Amendment liability under 49 U.S.C. §14706) for any loss,
delay, damage to or destruction of any and all shipments while under CARRIER’S
care, custody, and control, not to exceed $150,000 per trailer of goods in
transit in the U.S. and Canada. CARRIER’S liability under this Agreement for
any cargo claims shall be the full value of the property, meaning its
replacement cost as established by trade sell or other invoice documentation,
plus any additional transportation cost or incidental expenses that may be
incurred by BROKER or its customer as limited herein. The filing, processing
and disposition of all cargo claims shall be governed by 49 C.F.R. § 370.
 
13. INDEMNIFICATION. To the maximum
extent provided by law, CARRIER shall defend, indemnify and hold BROKER and its
shipper and receiver customers harmless from any and all liability and/or
claims arising from CARRIER’s breach of this AGREEMENT, for loss or damage to
any property (excluding cargo) in the possession and/or control of CARRIER
arising from the transportation and services provided by CARRIER under this
AGREEMENT, and for any and all liability and/or claims for personal injury or
death or property damage arising out of the negligent acts or omissions of
CARRIER or its employees, agents, or contractors in providing transportation
and services hereunder. CARRIER’S obligation shall include liability for
payment of any and all costs and/or fees incurred by BROKER in the adjustment
or defense of any claim for claim for personal injury or death or property
damage arising out of transportation operations and services under this
AGREEMENT. CARRIER agrees that its obligation to defend, indemnify and hold harmless
the BROKER and its shipper and receiver customers from and against any and all
claims and liabilities resulting from or arising out of transportation
operations and services under this AGREEMENT shall survive any termination of
this AGREEMENT. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing indemnity and defense
obligations of the Carrier shall not apply to any liability resulting from the
negligence of the Broker and Broker's customers (including their officers,
agents, and employees).
 
31.  Neither party shall be liable to the other to
the extent damages are consequential, special, incidental, punitive or
exemplary.
 
f.          $150,000 Limitation of Liability Clause
The first issue is whether Legacy
is limited to $150,000 in recovery against Landstar on Legacy’s complaint.  Landstar relies on ¶16 of the parties’
agreement to argue liability is limited to $150,000.  ¶16, however, repeatedly makes reference to
goods that are in the care, custody, and control of Landstar.  The parties’ stipulated facts make clear that
Landstar did not have the goods in its care, custody, or control when the
accident occurred.  Instead, Landstar
had, in violation of the parties’ agreement, subcontracted the transportation
of goods to G&K.  Landstar argues the
provision does not contain any language making clear that it does not apply
under the circumstances, but when the agreement is read as a whole, the words
“care, custody, and control” would have no import if Landstar’s interpretation
governed.  The Court therefore finds the
$150,000 limitation of liability clause does not apply.
 
g.         Consequential Damages Clause
¶31 of the parties’ contract
provides that neither party shall be liable to the other party for damages that
are consequential, special, incidental, punitive or exemplary.  ¶16 of the parties’ contract, however, provides,
in pertinent part, “CARRIER’S liability under this Agreement for any cargo
claims shall be the full value of the property, meaning its replacement cost as
established by trade sell or other invoice documentation, plus any additional
transportation cost or incidental expenses that may be incurred by BROKER or
its customer as limited herein.”  
 
The two provisions appear to be in
conflict.  Indeed, “consequential” and
“incidental” damages are essentially the same thing.  The Court has viewed Black’s Law Dictionary
on this issue.  With respect to
incidental damages, it explains, “Direct damages are such as follow immediately
upon the act done; while consequential damages are the necessary and connected
effect of the wrongful act. flowing from some of its consequences or results,
though to some extent depending on other circumstances. Civ. Code Ga. 1895, J
3911; Pearson v. Spartanburg County, 51 S. C. 480, 29 S. E. 193; Eaton v.
Railroad Co., 51 N. H. 504. 12 Am. Rep. 147.” 
With respect to incidental damages, it explains, “This term is applied
to the losses that are in addition to the actual damages or caused by wrongful
conduct.”  
 
Neither party cites authority
concerning what the Court should do when two provisions in the parties’
contract are in conflict.  The Court has
therefore done independent research on the issue.  While the case was decided in the family law
context, the Court has read and considered In re Marriage of Forcum (1983) 145
Cal.App.3d 599, 600-601, wherein the Court of Appeals considered the issue of a
general provision in a contract conflicting with a more specific
provision.  The Court of Appeals held
that, under those circumstances, the more specific provision governs.  Notably, this is in line with California law
making clear that, when two portions of a statute are in conflict, the more
specific provision governs.  See
Arbuckle-College City Fire Protection Dist. v. County of Colusa (2003) 105
Cal.App.4th 1155.  
 
In this case, the parties’ contract
has a specific provision making clear that Landstar must pay damages for “any
additional transportation cost or incidental expenses that may be incurred by
BROKER or its customer as limited herein.” 
The amounts paid for towing and recovery charges are clearly an
“additional transportation cost or incidental expenses that [were] incurred by
[Legacy]” as a result of the accident. 
The charges are therefore recoverable. 

 
h.         Off-Set
Landstar seeks adjudication of its
cross-complaint against Legacy, contending Legacy does not dispute it owes
Landstar for the services rendered that form the basis of the
cross-complaint.  Legacy, in opposition
to the motion, invokes the doctrine of set-off, or off-set.  Legacy does not provide legal authority in
this regard.  The Court has therefore
researched the issue.  In Great Western
Drywall, Inc. v. Roel Construction Co., Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
761, the Court of Appeals was faced with a situation where, after trial, the
trial judge awarded damages in connection with the plaintiff’s complaint and
also the defendant’s cross-complaint. 
The issue before the Court of Appeals was whether tort claims could be
used to off-set contract claims.  The
Court of Appeals held that they can and should be.  Notably, all damages at issue in this case
are contractual in nature, and therefore the issue is even more
straightforward.  Legacy is entitled to
an off-set of damages such that no award of damages on the cross-complaint is
appropriate.
 
i.             
Conclusion
Legacy established it is entitled
to an award of damages against Landstar on its cross-complaint in the total
amount of $560,222.03.  Landstar is
entitled to damages against Legacy in the amount of $254,211.98.  The parties must meet and confer on issues
relating to prejudgment interest and/or attorneys’ fees and submit a proposed
judgment for processing.  
 
Legacy is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   