 Case Number:  24LBCV00072    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Stephanie Hernandez, et
al. filed this action against Defendants, 1120 E. Hellman St. Apartments, et
al. for damages arising out of a bedbug infestation in Plaintiffs’ apartment
unit.  
 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes
causes of action for:
·        
Battery;
·        
Negligence (Premises Liability/Failure to Warn);
·        
IIED;
·        
Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability;
·        
Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
·        
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4
·        
Private Nuisance;
·        
Public Nuisance;
·        
Breach of Contract.
 

Demurrer

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet and Confer
Defendant submits the Declaration
of John P. Freeman, which adequately shows Counsel attempted to meet and confer
prior to bringing this demurrer.
 
c.     First
Cause of Action, Battery
The moving defendant is a pest
control company that was hired to eradicate pests in Plaintiffs’ unit.  It demurs to the first cause of action,
contending it is barred by the two-year statute of limitations (CCP §335.1).  It notes that it is alleged to have provided
remediation services at the property on 6/14/21 and 10/28/21, but the complaint
was not filed until 1/12/24, more than two years later.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, argue that a claim for battery based on bed bug infestation was
approved by the Seventh Circuit in Mathias v. Accord Econ. Lodging, Inc., 347
F.3d 672 (7th Cir. Ill. 2003). 
Plaintiffs’ opposition is entirely silent, however, as to the statute of
limitations, which was the sole argument advanced in the demurrer.  The opposition appears to be a cut and paste
document opposing a demurrer in another case where entirely different arguments
were advanced.  
 
The Court finds Defendant
adequately showed the claim is barred by the statute of limitations, and in the
absence of opposition on this ground, the demurrer is sustained.
 
d.     Second
Cause of Action, Negligence
Defendant’s demurrer to the second
cause of action is also made on statute of limitations grounds, and Plaintiffs
again fail to address the argument in their opposition.  The demurrer is sustained.
 
e.     Third
Cause of Action, IIED
Defendant’s demurrer to the third
cause of action is also made on statute of limitations grounds, and Plaintiffs
again fail to address the argument in their opposition.  The demurrer is sustained.
 

f.      Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
Plaintiffs concede that these
causes of action should have been pled solely against the landlord defendant
and not against the pest control defendant. 
The demurrer is sustained.
 
g.     Seventh
Cause of Action, Private Nuisance
Defendant demurs to the cause of
action for private nuisance, contending there are no facts showing it acted
unreasonably, as Plaintiffs allege it did exactly what it was hired to do:
provide remediation services.  Plaintiffs,
in opposition to the demurrer, present arguments that go to the potential
creation of a nuisance on the part of the landlord defendants, but mention
absolutely nothing that the moving pest control defendant did or did not do
that constitutes a nuisance.  The
demurrer is therefore sustained.
 
h.     Eighth
Cause of Action, Public Nuisance
The demurrer to the public nuisance
cause of action is sustained on the same ground addressed above, in connection
with the private nuisance cause of action. 

 
Additionally, Defendant demurs to
the eighth cause of action for public nuisance, contending Plaintiffs have not
alleged the existence of a nuisance activity that affects “an entire community
or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,” as required by Civil
Code §3480.  In Venuto v. Owens-Corning
Fiberglass Corp. (1971) 22 Cal.App.3d 116, 125, the Court made clear that this
requirement is not satisfied if the nuisance affects only the plaintiffs in the
action.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, cite
various code sections to establish what constitutes a nuisance, including
anything which is injurious to health. 
They fail, however, to cite anything contrary to Venuto, and fail to show
how the bed bugs at issue in this lawsuit affected an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons.  They argue the bed bugs were “likely to
spread” (but not that there is any allegation that they actually did
spread).  They fail, however, to show
that this is a “considerable number of persons,” as contemplated by
Venuto.  The demurrer is therefore
sustained on this additional ground as well. 

 
i.      Ninth
Cause of Action, Breach of Contract
Defendant demurs to the ninth cause
of action, contending Plaintiffs fail to allege the existence of any contract
running between them and it, the pest control company.  Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer,
make various arguments about their rental agreement.  Their rental agreement clearly runs between
them and their landlord, not the pest control company.  Plaintiffs fail to meaningfully address the
contention made in the demurrer, which is that there was no contract running
between Plaintiffs and the moving defendant pest control company.  The demurrer is therefore sustained.
 
j.      Leave
to Amend
Plaintiffs seek leave to amend in
the event the Court sustains the demurrer. 
It is not up to the Court to figure out how the complaint can be amended
to state a cause of action.  Rather, the
burden is on the plaintiff to show in what manner he or she can amend the
complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading.  Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
Plaintiffs do not articulate how
they would amend if given leave to do so; notably, most of the arguments in
this section of the opposition relate to the landlord defendants and fail
entirely to address the arguments raised in the demurrer.  Leave to amend is therefore denied.  
 

Conclusion

Defendant’s demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  