 Case Number:  23LBCV01651    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Daniel Kwan Haeng Lee filed this action against Defendant,
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Successor-in-Interest for WaMu Mortgage
Pass-Through Certificates Series 2008-AR12 and Does 1-25 for quiet title,
slander of title, cancellation and expungement of void instrument, and
declaratory relief.  Plaintiff filed the
complaint on 9/06/23.
 
On 10/09/23, JP Morgan filed a demurrer and motion to strike directed
at the complaint.  On 3/06/24, prior to
the hearing on the pleading challenge, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint.  The FAC includes causes of
action for cancellation and expungement of void instruments and declaratory
relief.    
 
On 7/11/24, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC without
leave to amend.  
 
2.    
Motion for Reconsideration
On 8/15/24, Plaintiff filed this
motion for reconsideration of the ruling sustaining the demurrer without leave
to amend.  Plaintiff contends there are new or different facts, circumstances, or
law that support reconsideration per CCP §1008(b).  Specifically, Plaintiff contends he has
discovered that his revocable family trust instrument shows explicit and mutual
intent by all settlors to hold the property as a community property.  Additionally, he contends the recent court
case of Haggerty v. Thornton (2024) 15 Cal.5th 729 makes clear that
the community property presumption overrides the title presumption.
 
Plaintiff failed to show the terms of his trust are a new or different
fact, circumstance, or law that support reconsideration.  The legislative intent was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier.  Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500. 
The burden under §1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new
trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such
that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or
produced it at the trial.”  New York
Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.
 
A party seeking reconsideration of a prior order based on “new or
different facts, circumstances or law” must provide a satisfactory explanation
for failing to present the information at the first hearing; i.e., a showing of
reasonable diligence.  Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  A motion
for reconsideration is properly denied where based on evidence that could have
been presented in connection with the original motion. Morris v. AGFA Corp.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.
 
Plaintiff failed to show he had no access to the trust prior to the
ruling on the demurrer to the FAC; notably, it is his own family trust upon
which he relies.  The terms of the trust
are therefore not new or different. 
Additionally, Defendants’ demurrer was sustained in part based on the
doctrine of bona fide encumbrancer for value; the terms of the trust do not
change what documents were recorded and relied upon by Defendants in connection
with the foreclosure proceedings.  
 
The motion for reconsideration is denied.
 
3.    
Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint 
On 6/24/24, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint, setting the motion for hearing on 10/01/24, which was AFTER the
Court ruled on the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiffs fail to show how the SAC would
cure the defects detailed in the Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrer to the
FAC without leave to amend. 
Additionally, because reconsideration is denied per the above
discussion, leave to amend must necessarily be denied as the prior ruling was
without leave to amend.  The motion for
leave to amend is denied.  
 
4.    
Judgment
Defendants submitted a proposed judgment on 8/09/24.  The Court will sign the judgment at the
conclusion of today’s hearing.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   