 Case Number:  23STCV04603    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling  Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31   HEARING DATE: December 15, 2023   TRIAL DATE:  Not set  CASE:   Arami Cheyenne Walker v. Board of Regents, University of California  CASE NO.:    23STCV04603    DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE   MOVING PARTY: Defendant The Regents of the University of California  RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff Arami Cheyenne Walker   I. BACKGROUND  This case arises from the alleged unauthorized use of photographic images.  On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff, Arami Cheyenne Walker,1 filed a Complaint against Defendant, The Regents of the University of California (erroneously sued as Board of Regents, University of California), alleging causes of action for: (1) Appropriation (Civil Code section 3344); (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.¿¿Plaintiff alleges that, on May 28, 2015, she was approached by a photographer at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) to take images of her.  Plaintiff was a UCLA student.  Plaintiff agreed and the photographer, Elena Zhukova, took a few images and asked for Plaintiff to sign a release. The release authorized use of the images so long as they were not defamatory.¿ Years later, on March 20, 2020, Plaintiff learned that UCLA Giving was using her photographic image as part of a funding campaign in response to Covid-19.  Plaintiff claims this use of her likeness was unauthorized and defamatory within the meaning of the release.  Defendant demurred to all three causes of action in the Complaint.  On September 12, 2023, the Court sustained the demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend.  On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC).    On November 2, 2023, Defendant filed this Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the FAC.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendant replied.  II. LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER¿¿  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿ “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿   A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿ (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿Where the complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)¿¿  III.  DISCUSSION  A.  Meet and Confer  Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Declaration of Jason Scupine, ¶¶ 6-8.)  B.  Analysis  Defendant demurs to the FAC on the ground that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Given that the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint, the Court compares the allegations in the Complaint and the FAC.  1.  First Cause of Action for Appropriation  Civil Code section 3344(a) proscribes the “knowing[] use [of] another’s ... photograph, or likeness, in any manner, on or in products, merchandise, or goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods or services, without such person’s prior consent.” In addition to the common law elements, section 3344 requires “a knowing use by the defendant as well as a direct connection between the alleged use and the commercial purpose.”  (Local TV, LLC v. Superior Court (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1, 13.)  In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that the photographs were being used to raise funds for UCLA’s Covid response.  In sustaining Defendant’s demurrer to the First Cause of Action in the Complaint, this Court stated that the use of Plaintiff’s image did not constitute “advertising or selling, soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods or services” within the meaning of Section 3344 because “[a]s alleged, Plaintiff’s image used in 2020 was to raise funds for UCLA’s Covid response, including development of the vaccine.”  (9/12/23 Ruling.)  Here, the FAC adds the following allegations:  “Plaintiff’s images were used to raise funds for UCLA’s Covid response constitutes “advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods or services,” as required by Section 3344.”  (FAC, ¶ 74.)  UCLA's fundraising campaigns, which featured Plaintiff's image prominently, clearly served a commercial purpose. The campaigns sought to generate financial support for various initiatives related to the COVID-19 pandemic and medical services at UCLA.”  (FAC, ¶ 108.)    “The use of Plaintiff's image in these campaigns was intended to influence donors and solicit financial contributions. This unequivocally falls within the realm of a commercial purpose as contemplated by Section 3344.”  (FAC, ¶ 109.)  The FAC is still deficient.  Section 3344 requires “a knowing use by the defendant as well as a direct connection between the alleged use and the commercial purpose.”  (Local TV, LLC, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 13.)  As alleged, the FAC makes clear that the photographs taken of Plaintiff were used “to generate financial support for various initiatives related to the Covid-19 pandemic and medical services at UCLA.”  In other words, the use of Plaintiff’s images is directly connected to UCLA’s Covid-19 response.  As the Court noted in its prior ruling, the Covid-19 response was not commercial in purpose. Other allegations also support this conclusion.  (See e.g., FAC, ¶ 15 [“Plaintiff received a text message and multiple tags on Facebook of her photo in use as a funding campaign initiated by UCLA Giving.”]; FAC, ¶ 16 [“On the photo there were words that read, “ UCLA is responding to Covid 19, See how you can help.” This campaign was on UCLA Givings Facebook, Instagram, and Website.”]; FAC, ¶ 41 [“I have not attended UCLA for three years and have no affiliation with the preventative measures UCLA is currently taking to stop the COVID virus.”].)    Further, the purpose of UCLA’s Covid campaign, as alleged, was charitable in nature rather than commercial.  There are no allegations establishing that Plaintiff’s likeness was used “in products, merchandise, or goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods or services.”2    Plaintiff argues that one form of the tort of invasion of privacy can be based on appropriation, for the defendant’s advantage, or the plaintiff’s name or likeness.  (Opp., p. 7.)  This argument fails for the simple reason that the FAC advances a claim for appropriation, not common law invasion of privacy.  In sum, the FAC does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for appropriation under Civil Code section 3344.  Having so concluded, the Court does not address Defendant’s other arguments.  2.  Second Cause of Action for Breach of Contract   The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.  (Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391).  As in the Complaint, the FAC alleges that there “exists a model release executed by Plaintiff and Elena Zhukova in the presence of Anastasiia Sapon on May 28, 2015. Defendant is one of the assigns” (FAC, ¶ 130), and that the “release authorized uses of the images so long as they were not defamatory” (FAC, ¶ 7).  The issue, then, is whether the FAC sufficiently alleges that the use of Plaintiff’s photos was defamatory.  In sustaining the demurrer to the Complaint, this Court stated that “there are no allegations showing that the use of Plaintiff’s images were defamatory ....”  (9/12/23 Ruling.)    Here, Defendant argues that there are no new allegations that show the use of Plaintiff’s images were defamatory.  The Court agrees.  “The question whether a statement is reasonably susceptible to a defamatory interpretation is a question of law for the trial court. Only once the court has determined that a statement is reasonably susceptible to such a defamatory interpretation does it become a question for the trier of fact whether or not it was so understood.”  (Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 637, 647.)  As in the Complaint, the FAC alleges that an affiliate of UCLA “copied UCLA Givings campaign to her personal wall and put the words “You are the Poster Girl of Covid.” She tagged plaintiff in the post, so that Plaintiff was unable to remove the post.”  (FAC, ¶ 19.)  The FAC does not allege anything new that would be reasonably susceptible to a defamatory interpretation.   Plaintiff argues the FAC states a claim for promissory estoppel.  The elements of a claim for promissory estoppel are: (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.”  (Joffe v. City of Huntington Park (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 492, 513.)  “Promissory estoppel is a doctrine which employs equitable principles to satisfy the requirement that consideration must be given in exchange for the promise sought to be enforced. Because promissory estoppel is an equitable doctrine to allow enforcement of a promise that would otherwise be unenforceable, courts are given wide discretion in its application.”  (Id. [cleaned up].)    Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel claim is predicated on the allegations that Defendant promised to discontinue the use of her images yet proceeded to do so in a 2022 campaign to solicit students to sign up for medical and health campaigns.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 41-46.)    Defendant argues the FAC does not satisfy the second and fourth elements of a promissory estoppel claim.  As to the second element, Defendant is incorrect.  The FAC alleges that “Plaintiff contacted lawyers in 2020 in order to discuss potential legal action, however, she did not file a complaint after an executive of External Marketing made an explicit promise to remove images and terminate the contract.”  (FAC, ¶ 51.)  As alleged, Plaintiff relied on the promise by deciding not to file a complaint in 2020.  This allegation satisfies the second element.  However, the Court agrees that the fourth element is not pled.  Although the FAC alleges that Plaintiff suffered reputational harm in connection with the use of her image in the 2020 Covid-19 funding campaign, by contrast, there is no allegation that Plaintiff was harmed by the use of her image as part of the 2022 campaign.  The FAC does not allege harm resulting from Plaintiff’s reliance on the promise to remove her image.   The Second Cause of Action is deficient.     3.  Third Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress  Negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”) is not an independent cause of action.¿ The tort of negligence and the traditional elements of negligence must be alleged - i.e. duty, breach, causation and damages.¿ (Zavala v. Arche (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 915, 928; Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588 [“Damages for severe emotional distress, rather, are recoverable in a negligence action when they result from the breach of a duty owed the plaintiff that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two”].)¿ A plaintiff must be a direct victim or a bystander who witnessed the injury.¿ (Smith v. Pust (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 263, 273.)¿  Plaintiff’s NIED claim fails.  Common law causes of action cannot be asserted against a public entity.¿ “Under the Government Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810 et seq.), there is no common law tort liability for public entities in California; instead, such liability must be based on statute.”¿ (Guzman v. County of Monterey¿(2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 897.)¿ Here, a NIED claim is a common law cause of action.  Defendant is a public entity.  As such, Plaintiff cannot sustain her NIED claim.   V.  CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is Sustained.  Leave to amend is granted as to the Second Cause of Action only.    Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve her Second Amended Complaint within 30 days of this order.    Defendant is ordered to file and serve its responsive pleading within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended pleading.   The motion to strike is moot.   Demurring party to give notice.     Dated:   December 15, 2023    ¿ ¿¿¿ ¿ ¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ ¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿   