


[1] Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a
notice of association of counsel on March 17, 2023.


[2] Unless otherwise stated, all
statutory references hereinafter are to the Code of Civil Procedure.


[3] Plaintiff requests that a
different judge other than Judge Bensinger rule on this motion.  Plaintiff argues that, while a motion for
reconsideration under Section 1008, subdivision (a) requires that the same
judge to rule on the motion, a motion made pursuant to Section 1008, subdivision
(b) mandates that a different judge hear this motion.  Plaintiff is correct that Section 1008,
subdivision (b) does not contain a like “same judge” requirement.  As noted by the Court of Appeal in Deauville
Restaurant, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 843, 850, “[w]hile
section 1008, subdivision (a) expressly requires the same judge hear a motion
for reconsideration, subdivision (b) conspicuously omits the ‘same judge’
requirement.”  However, neither the plain
words of Section 1008, subdivision (b) nor in any part of the Deauville
Restaurant opinion is it stated that a different judge must hear
the renewed motion or that the party may request another judge to hear the
motion.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request
is denied.


[4] Plaintiff also requests 45 minutes
as a reasonable accommodation to address the Court.  Plaintiff does not show he is entitled to
this accommodation.  California Rules of
Court, rule 1.100 sets forth the procedure for requesting a reasonable
accommodation.  Rule 1.100 states: 
The
process for requesting accommodations is as follows:
(1)
 Requests for accommodations under this rule may be presented ex parte on
a form approved by the Judicial Council, in another written format, or orally.
Requests must be forwarded to the ADA coordinator, also known as the access
coordinator, or designee, within the time frame provided in (c)(3).
(2)
 Requests for accommodations must include a description of the
accommodation sought, along with a statement of the medical condition that
necessitates the accommodation. The court, in its discretion, may require the
applicant to provide additional information about the medical condition.
(3)
 Requests for accommodations must be made as far in advance as possible,
and in any event must be made no fewer than 5 court days before the requested
implementation date. The court may, in its discretion, waive this requirement.
(4)
 The court must keep confidential all information of the applicant
concerning the request for accommodation, unless confidentiality is waived in
writing by the applicant or disclosure is required by law. The applicant's
identity and confidential information may not be disclosed to the public or to
persons other than those involved in the accommodation process. Confidential
information includes all medical information pertaining to the applicant, and
all oral or written communication from the applicant concerning the request for
accommodation.
 
Here,
Plaintiff merely states that he is disabled. 
Plaintiff does not provide a statement of the medical condition that
necessitates the accommodation.  Plaintiff
presented his arguments ably before without a need for accommodation.  Nothing is presented herein that warrants an
accommodation.  Instead, Plaintiff seeks
additional time to argue his case, not that any identifiable disability necessitates
more time to present the argument.  As
such, the Court will hear from the parties to the extent necessary for the
disposition of the motion.


[5] Indeed, the assertion that the
Court’s October 2, 2023, Order was “ghostwritten and researched by judicial assistant
Araxi Gindzhkan” is unsupported and false. Ms. Gindzhkan is the courtroom
judicial assistant.  

