 Case Number:  22STCV31358    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling  Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31   HEARING DATE: December 15, 2023   TRIAL DATE:  February 13, 2024  CASE:   Fermin Garcia v. Quik Tow LLC, et al.  CASE NO.:    22STCV31358     MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY    MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Fermin Garcia  RESPONDING PARTY: No opposition   I. BACKGROUND  On September 26, 2022, Plaintiff, Fermin Garcia, filed this action against Defendants, Quik Tow LLC (“Quik Tow”) and Ignacio Gonzalez, for wage and hour violations. ¿ On November 14, 2022, Plaintiff served Quik Tow with Special Interrogatories, Set One. ¿On June 13, 2023, Quik Tow served responses.  Plaintiff took issue with the responses and sent a meet and confer letter.  Defendant provided Plaintiff with extensions to file a motion to compel further in exchange for an extension to respond to the meet and confer letter.    On October 26, 2023, after several extensions, and no indication that Defendant would provide further responses or engage in an Informal Discovery Conference, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 6, and 10.  Plaintiff requests sanctions against Quik Tow and its counsel.  The motion is unopposed.1  II. LEGAL STANDARDS FOR COMPELLING FURTHER RESPONSES¿ ¿ Under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories where an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete, an exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate, or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿¿¿ ¿ Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ ¿ Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿¿ ¿ Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿ ¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ ¿ If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿ ¿ If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (h).)¿¿¿¿¿  Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings) noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery process, monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿  III. DISCUSSION  Plaintiff requests a further response to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 1, 6, and 10.   Special Interrogatory Nos. 1 and 6  Plaintiff argues a further response is warranted as to Nos. 1 and 6 because Quik Tow did not provide a complete response.  The Court agrees.  No. 1 asks: “Please IDENTIFY the individual(s) providing the responses and signing the verification to these Interrogatories.”  No. 6 asks: Please IDENTIFY each and every one of YOUR employees who worked with PLAINTIFF during PLAINTIFF’s employment with you.”  The Definitions and Explanations section of the discovery requests states the “term “IDENTIFY,” when used in relation to an individual, shall be interpreted as requesting the name, current address, last known address if no current address is known, phone number, job title or position held with Defendant or its company, whether the person is presently employed by respondent, and if not, whether Defendant or any of its employees or agents knows of the person's whereabouts.”    Here, Quik Tow identified only the names of individuals responsive to each request.  Further responses are warranted as to Nos. 1 and 6.  Accordingly, the motion as to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 and 6 is granted.  Special Interrogatory No. 10  No. 10 asks: “If you contend that YOU provided PLAINTIFF with an ITEMIZED STATEMENT (for purposes of these Interrogatories, “ITEMIZED STATEMENT” shall be defined by California Labor Code section 226, et seq.) when PLAINTIFF received his/her wages, please describe all facts that support YOUR contention.”  In response, Quik Tow stated: “Responding Party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to this interrogatory, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain this information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”     Plaintiff argues Quik Tow’s response is evasive and incomplete.  The Court agrees.  Whether Quik Tow provided Plaintiff with itemized statements is information within Quik Tow’s knowledge as are the facts that would support that contention.   Accordingly, the motion as to Special Interrogatories, Set One, No. 10 is granted.  Monetary Sanctions  Plaintiff requests sanctions against Quik Tow and its counsel.  Given the Court has granted this motion, sanctions are warranted.¿ Pursuant to Hennings, supra, imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper unless counsel shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿ Defense counsel does not meet their burden.¿ Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against Quik Tow and its attorney of record in the amount of $620, consisting of one hour at plaintiff’s counsel hourly rate and $70 in filing fees.  IV. CONCLUSION  The motions to compel as to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 6, and 10.  Defendant Quik Tow LLC is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of this order.  The requests for sanctions are granted.  Defendant Quik Tow LLC and its counsel are ordered to pay, jointly and severally, sanctions in the sum of $620, to be paid to Plaintiff, by and through his counsel within 30 days of this order  Moving party to give notice.    Dated:   December 15, 2023    ¿ ¿¿¿ ¿ ¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ ¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿   