  Case Number:  19STCV26182    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
bianca alexis
  fairchild,
  formerly known as TANESHA T. REID, also known as TAYLOR REID and TAYLOR
  FRIEDMAN;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JENNIFER LECHTER, individually and as Trustee
  of the GERALD M. FRIEDMAN TRUST; MARVIN ENGINEERING, CO., INC., a California
  Corporation; DOEs 1-5, as the Personal Representative(s) of the ESTATE OF
  GERALD M. FRIEDMAN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  19STCV26182 (consolidated with 21STCV35382)
 
  Hearing Date:  January 30, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant Marvin engineering, co., inc.’s motion to compel
  Plaintiff’s further response to form interrogatories



 

Procedural
Background
On July 26, 2019, Plaintiff Bianca
Fairchild (“Plaintiff”) filed the action Bianca Alexis Fairchild v. Jennifer
Lechter, individually and as Successor Trustee of the Gerald M. Friedman Trust;
Gerald M. Friedman, also known as Jerry Friedman, 19STCV26182 (“Lead
Action”).  On September 27, 2019,
Plaintiff filed the operative first amended complaint (“Lead FAC”) in the Lead
Action against Jennifer Lechter individually, Jennifer
Lechter as Successor Trustee of the Gerald M Friedman Trust, and Gerald M.
Friedman.  The FAC asserted six causes of
action for (1) Breach of Express Contract, (2) Breach of Implied Contract, (3)
Trespass, (4) Conversion, (5) Declaratory Relief, and (6) Tortious Interference
with Contract.  As a result of
Plaintiff’s willful refusal to comply with discovery orders, the Court imposed
terminating sanctions on April 13, 2021 and dismissed Jennifer Lechter in her
individual and representative capacities from the complaint.  (Lead Action Order 4/13/21; see also Lead
Action Order 5/31/22.)  On May 31, 2022,
the Court entered Judgment in favor of Jennifer Lechter in her individual and
representative capacity (as Successor Trustee of the Trust) in the Lead Action.
On September 27, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
related action, 21STCV35382 (“the Related Action”) against Defendants Jennifer
Lechter, individually and as Trustee of the Gerald M. Friedman Trust, Marvin
Engineering, Co., Inc. (“Marvin Engineering”), and Does 1-5 as the Personal
Representative(s) of the Estate of Gerald Friedman.  
On January 27, 2022, the Court deemed the Related
Action related to the Lead Action. 
(Minute Order 1/27/22.)  On January
3, 2023, the Court entered judgment in favor of Jennifer Lechter, individually
and as Successor Trustee of the Gerald M. Friedman Trust in the related action.  
On March 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint in the Related Action (“Related FAC”) against
Defendant Marvin Engineering.  The
Related FAC asserts three causes of action for (1) Sexual Battery, (2)
Negligence Breach of Duty, and (3) Negligent Training Retention, Supervision,
and Control of Employees.  
On June 16, 2023, the Court entered
judgment in the Related Action in favor of Defendant Jennifer Lechter as the
Personal Representative of the Estate of Gerald M. Friedman and against
Plaintiff.
            On November 30, 2023, Defendant
Marvin Engineering filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s further
response to form interrogatories (“FROGs”). 
No opposition or reply has been filed.
 
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaints
            The Lead Action alleges in relevant
part that:
            In June 1995, when Plaintiff was
approximately 14 years old, Plaintiff met Gerald M. Friedman (“Decedent”) who
was then approximately 60 years old.  (Lead
FAC ¶ 10.)  At the time, Plaintiff did
not have a permanent home.  (FAC ¶
10.)  Decedent offered Plaintiff a place
to live at his condominium, and she moved in with Decedent in 1997.  (Lead FAC ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff “began having a sexual relationship
with [Decedent] shortly thereafter.”  (Lead
FAC ¶ 11.)  
During this period of cohabitation,
Decedent promised to “provide for [Plaintiff’s] financial stability after his
passing, through his will and otherwise, and that she would always be taken
care of” throughout her life.  (Lead FAC
¶ 15.)  Decedent also informed Plaintiff
that the Gerald M. Friedman Trust was “established for the benefit of [his]
children and Plaintiff.”  (Lead FAC ¶
12.)
Between 1997 and 2018, Decedent used his
own assets and assets from the Gerald M. Friedman Trust to support Plaintiff,
including by buying her real property, cars, and jewelry, providing Plaintiff a
“salaried position at Marvin Engineering Corporation, Inc.,” and “provid[ing]
for Plaintiff's education.” (Lead FAC ¶ 13.) 
“Plaintiff and [Decedent] at times held themselves out to third parties
as husband and wife.”  (Lead FAC ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff is informed and believes that on
June 3, 2018, Decedent suffered an accident rendering him partially incapacitated.  (Lead FAC ¶ 18.)
 
Beginning in or
about July 2018, [Decedent] materially breached the agreement between he and
Plaintiff. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that such
breach was in fact occasioned by Defendant Lechter, who had taken over [Decedents]’s
affairs, and DOES 1 through 5, inclusive. At or about that time: (a) Plaintiff
was refused any access to [Decedent]; (b) Plaintiffs salaried position at
Marvin Engineering was terminated and her salary ceased; ( c) on or about July
13, 2018, Plaintiff’s Special Powers of Attorney dated July 29, 2015 and April
3, 2018 over [Decedent]’s rental properties at 7100 Alvern Street, Los Angeles,
California were revoked and on or about July 24, 2018 a demand was made to pay
$12,000 in rental income and security deposits which Plaintiff had collected
and [Decedent] had previously allowed Plaintiff to keep; (d) at a time from on
or about July 15, 2018 through August 8, 2018 the locks were changed at
Plaintiffs residence at the Malibu Condo, the Malibu Condo was broken into and
essentially all of Plaintiffs personal property was removed including, without
limitation, artwork, clothing, jewelry, computers, printer, surveillance
system, safe containing cash, documents and photographs; (e) on or about August
8, 2018 $94,000 was removed from a joint account in the name of Plaintiff and [Decedent]
at Comerica Bank; (f) at a time from in or about July through August 2018,
Plaintiff’s personal property kept at Defendant Friedman’s townhouse at 3610
Vintage on the Strand, #15, Park City, Utah (‘Park City Townhouse’) was removed
including, without limitation, clothes, jewelry, furniture, gym equipment and
computers; (g) at a time from or about July through August 2018, Plaintiff was
deprived of her personal property including, without limitation, clothing and
jewelry that were at [Decedent]’s primary residence at 1806 N. Beverly Glen
Boulevard, Los Angeles, California (‘Bel Air Residence’); (h) on or about
February 22, 2019, the Malibu Condo was again broken into, locks were changed
and items of Plaintiffs jewelry as well as cash were taken; ( I ) on or about
August 31, 2018 Plaintiff was provided with a Notice of Termination of Tenancy
with respect to the Malibu Condo giving her 60 days to vacate the premises. On
or about January 15, 2019 an Unlawful Detainer Complaint was filed against
Plaintiff to evict her from the Malibu Condo. Service of process was
purportedly obtained by posting and mailing pursuant to C.C.P. § 415.45, a
default was entered against Plaintiff on or about February 28, 2019, a judgment
and writ of possession obtained on or about March 1, 2019 and Plaintiff was
evicted from the Malibu Condo. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon
alleges, that on or about May 30, 2019, Defendant Lechter sold the Malibu Condo
for approximately $3,960,000.
(Lead
FAC ¶ 28.)
 
            The Related FAC alleges in relevant part:
            In June 1995, when Plaintiff was
approximately 14 years old, Plaintiff met Gerald M. Friedman (“Decedent”) who
was then approximately 60 years old.  (Related
FAC ¶ 6.)  Decedent “promised and agreed
to provide Plaintiff with emotional and financial support throughout her life,
and to provide for her financial stability even after his passing, such that
Plaintiff would always be financially taken care of.”  (Id. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff then moved into Decedent’s
condominium in 1997, and Decedent soon “began having a coercive sexual
relationship with Plaintiff.”  (Id.
¶ 9.)
            In 1999, Plaintiff married Decedent
in Las Vegas, but Decedent failed to properly obtain and file the proper
marriage paperwork.  (Id. ¶ 10.)  
Decedent supported Plaintiff as agreed “up
until around July 3, 2018” when Decedent suffered an accident that left him
partially incapacitated.  (Id. ¶ 14.)  On May 13, 2020, Decedent passed away.  (Id. ¶ 12.)  
 
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides that “[o]n receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete; [or] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate; [or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general.”  (CCP § 2030.300(a).)
Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service of the
verified response, or upon a later date agreed to in writing.  Otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.  (CCP
§ 2031.310(c).)  The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. 
(CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)
The burden is on the responding part to justify any objection or failure
fully to answer the interrogatories.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 245, 255.)
 
Discussion
            Defendant Marvin Engineering seeks
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to FROGs Nos. 2.6, 6.1, 6.2, 6.4, 6.6,
6.7, 12.1, 12.3, and 12.4.
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(b)(1) a motion to compel further
responses to an interrogatory “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).)  “A meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion.” 
(CCP § 2016.040.)  “The level of effort at informal resolution which satisfies the
‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In
a larger, more complex discovery context, a greater effort at informal
resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a
more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of
the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope
of discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can
be relevant.”  (Obregon v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Here, on
November 13, 2023, Defense Counsel served Plaintiff’s counsel with a “meet and
confer letter outlining all of the deficiencies in the responses which
Defendant now seeks to have cured through its Motions to Compel Further
Responses. [Defense Counsel] requested amended responses by November 18, 2023.
No response to that letter was received by [Defense Counsel].”  (Silver Decl. ¶ 11.)  In light of the lack of a response to the
meet and confer letter, the meet and confer efforts do appear sufficient for
purposes of the instant motion.
 
FROG No. 2.6
            “State:
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of your present employer or place
of self-employment; and (b) the name, ADDRESS, dates of employment, job title,
and nature of work for each employer or self-employment you have had from five
years before the INCIDENT until today.” 
(FROG No. 2.6.)
            “(a)
Self Employed.”  (Response to FROG No.
2.6.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
Response is Incomplete
            A motion to compel further responses
lies where an answer is evasive or incomplete, the exercise to produce
documents is unwarranted or without sufficient specification, or an objection
is without merit or too general.  (CCP §
2030.300(a)(1)-(3).)  As the Court of Appeal explained
in Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, “[a]nswers must be
complete and responsive. Thus, it is not proper to answer by stating, ‘See my
deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See the financial statement.’ Indeed,
if a question does require the responding party to make reference to a pleading
or document, the pleading or document should be identified and summarized
so the answer is fully responsive to the question.”  (Id. at pp.783–784, [italics
added].)  Moreover, “[p]arties, like
witnesses, are required to state the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth in answering written interrogatories.” 
(Id. at p.783.)
            Here, subsection (a) requests the
name, address, and telephone number of “[Plaintiff’s] present employer or place of
self-employment”.  Plaintiff merely stating that she is
self-employed does not identify where Plaintiff is self-employed as requested.  Further, Plaintiff failed to respond to
subsection (b) as to Plaintiff’s employment for the last five years.  Accordingly, a further response is required.
 
FROG No. 6.1
            “Do you attribute any physical,
mental, or emotional injuries to the INCIDENT? (If your answer is ‘no,’ do not
answer interrogatories 6.2 through 6.7).” 
(FROG No. 6.1.)
            “Yes. Responding Party reserves the
right to supplement this response once discovery, independent investigations,
and legal research and analyses have been completed.”  (Response to FROG No. 6.1.)
 
            Fully Responsive
            Here the response “yes” is fully
responsive to FROG 6.1 as Plaintiff clearly states that she does attribute physical,
mental, or emotional injuries to the underlying allegations in the
complaint.  Accordingly, no further
response is required.
 
FROG No. 6.2
            “Identify each injury you attribute
to the INCIDENT and the area of your body affected.”  (FROG No. 6.2.)
            “Responding Party has experienced
deep depression, unworthiness, guilt, feeling deceived, feeling hollow, feeling
used, tricked and loss of my life and my youth, and feeling lost within myself.
Responding Party reserves the right to supplement this response once discovery,
independent investigations, and legal research and analyses have been
completed.”  (Response to FROG No. 6.2)
 
            Response is Incomplete
            Here, Plaintiff does not identify any
specific areas of the body affected or clearly denote that injuries do not have
any physical aspect and are confined to mental and/or emotional injuries.  Accordingly, a further, clarifying the
response is required. 
 
FROG No. 6.4
            “Did you receive any consultation or
examination (except from expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.210-2034.310) or treatment from a HEALTH CARE PROVIDER for any
injury you attribute to the INCIDENT? If so, for each HEALTH CARE PROVIDER
state: (a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number; (b) the type of
consultation, examination, or treatment provided; (c) the dates you received
consultation, examination, or treatment; and (d) the charges to date.”  (FROG No. 6.4.)
            “As Propounding Party is already
aware Responding Party had received treatment with Dr. Alex Lazar. Responding
Party reserves the right to supplement this response once discovery,
independent investigations, and legal research and analyses have been
completed.”  (Response to FROG No. 6.4.)
 
            Response
is Incomplete
            Here,
Plaintiff has not fully responded to the FROG. 
Plaintiff has merely identified the name of a treating doctor.  However, Plaintiff has failed to provide the
address and telephone number, the type of consultation, examination, or treatment received,
the date of the treatment, and charges for the treatment.  As Plaintiff has not fully responded, it is unclear
whether the subsequent responses are proper. 
Accordingly, a further response is required.
 
FROGs No. 6.6 and 6.7
            “Are there any other medical
services necessitated by the injuries that you attribute to the INCIDENT that
were not previously listed (for example, ambulance, nursing, prosthetics)? If
so, for each service state: (a) the nature; (b) the date; (c) the cost; and (d)
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each provider.”  (FROG No. 6.6.)
            “Has any HEALTH CARE
PROVIDER advised that you may require future or additional
treatment for any injuries that you attribute to the INCIDENT? If so,
for each injury state: (a) the name and ADDRESS of each HEALTH CARE PROVIDER; (b)
the complaints for which the treatment was advised; and (c) the nature,
duration, and estimated cost of the treatment.” 
(FROG No. 6.7.)
            Identically in
response to each of these requests, Plaintiff states that:
            “Responding Party has
not yet received treatment for her injuries. Responding Party reserves the
right to supplement this response once discovery, independent investigations,
and legal research and analyses have been completed.”  (Responses to FROGs No. 6.6. and 6.7.)
 
            Response is Unclear
            In response to FROGs
No. 6.6 and 6.7, Plaintiff claims that she has not received treatment for her
injuries.  However, in response to FROG
no. 6.4, Plaintiff claims to have seen Dr. Alex Lazar for her injuries.  These responses are contradictory on their
face.  Plaintiff’s response to FROG No.
6.4 is incomplete in that at the very least, Plaintiff has failed to identify
the type of consultation, examination, or treatment provided by Dr. Alex Lazar.  Accordingly, a further response in conjunction
with FROG No. 6.4 is necessary.
 
FROG No. 12.1
            “State the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: (a) who witnessed the
INCIDENT or the events occurring immediately before or after the INCIDENT; (b)
who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; (c) who heard any
statements made about the INCIDENT by any individual at the scene; and (d) who
YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except
for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034).”  (FROG No. 12.1.)
            “The parties in the
above-captioned case, and their employees, who can be reached through their
counsel. Paulette Smith, Mr. Friedman, Bea English, Carrie Lovelady, Echo Zhu,
Howard Gussman, Marvin Gussman. Responding Party reserves the right to
supplement this response once discovery, independent investigations, and legal
research and analyses have been completed.” 
(Response No. 12.1.)
 
            Response is Incomplete
            Here, Plaintiff’s
response is incomplete because it fails to state the address and telephone
number of witnesses Paulette Smith, Mr. Friedman, Bea English, Carrie Lovelady,
Echo Zhu, Howard Gussman, Marvin Gussman. 
As Plaintiff’s response is incomplete, a further response is required.
 
FROG No. 12.3
            “Have YOU OR ANYONE
ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF obtained a written or recorded statement from any
individual concerning the INCIDENT? If so, for each statement state: (a) the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual from whom the statement
was obtained; (b) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual who
obtained the statement; (c) the date the statement was obtained; and (d) the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON who has the original
statement or a copy.”  (FROG No. 12.3.)
            “Yes. See statement of
Paulette Smith.”  (Response to FROG No.
12.3.)
 
            Response
is Incomplete
            Here, Plaintiff’s
response does not include any of the requested information sought by
subsections (a)-(d).  Merely identifying
a single witness statement is insufficient. 
Plaintiff must state “(a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the
individual from whom the statement was obtained; (b) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the individual who obtained the statement; (c) the date the
statement was obtained; and (d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each
PERSON who has the original statement or a copy.”  Accordingly, a further response is required.
 
FROG No. 12.4
            “Do YOU OR ANYONE
ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF know of any photographs, films, or videotapes depicting
any place, object, or individual concerning the INCIDENT or plaintiff’s
injuries? If so, state: (a) the number of photographs or feet of film or
videotape; (b) the places, objects, or persons photographed, filmed, or
videotaped; (c) the date the photographs, films, or videotapes were taken; (d)
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual taking the
photographs, films, or videotapes; and (e) the name, ADDRESS and telephone
number of each PERSON who has the original or a copy of the photographs, films,
or videotapes.”  (FROG No. 12.4.)
            “Please see Plaintiffs
responses to Defendant’s Demand for Production of Documents, Set One and any
and all documents produced responsive to said discovery request. Responding
Party reserves the right to supplement this response once discovery, independent
investigations, and legal research and analyses have been completed.”  (Response to FROG No. 12.4.)
 
            Response
is Improper
            As noted above, “it is not proper to
answer by stating, ‘See my deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See
the financial statement.’ Indeed, if a question does require the
responding party to make reference to a pleading or document, the pleading or
document should be identified and summarized so the answer is fully
responsive to the question.”  (Deyo,
supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at pp.783–784, [italics added].)  Here, identifying unspecified responses to an
unspecified Defendant’s document demand is insufficient.  Plaintiff is required to identify and
summarize the responsive documents. 
Accordingly, a further response is required.
            
            
Sanctions
            Sanctions were not
requested in the notices nor in the oppositions.  Therefore, no sanctions can be awarded.  (CCP § 2023.040, [“A request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought.”].)
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Marvin
Engineering, Co., Inc’s motion to compel Plaintiff Bianca Alexis Fairchild’s
further response to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART as to Form
Interrogatories, 2.6, 6.2, 6.4, 6.6,
6.7, 12.1, 12.3, 12.4 and is otherwise DENIED.
Plaintiff Bianca Alexis
Fairchild is to serve further,
verified, code compliant responses, without objection, as to Form
Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 6.2, 6.4, 12.1, 12.3, 12.4 within twenty (20) days of
notice of this order.  As to Form Interrogatories
Nos. 6.6 and 6.7, Plaintiff is to provide a further response as applicable
based on the response to Form Interrogatory 6.4.
Moving Party is to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED: January ___, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court