..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22SMCV01250
Plaintiff's Name: Judy Sharinger
Defendant's Name: Eva Field
People-Names: Judy Sharinger, Eva Field, Daniel Field
Company-Names: None
Places: 14979 La Cumbre Drive, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272, Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
Dates: October 26, 2023, November 6, 2024, December 4, 2023, October 7, 2024
Events: Landlord-tenant dispute, service of summons, motion to quash
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to establish jurisdiction over Defendant
Facts: Plaintiff was a tenant of property owned and managed by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to return security deposit, cut off utilities, and failed to maintain the property. Defendant argues that service of summons was improper.
Disputes: Improper service of summons
Acts: Plaintiff's process server attempted personal service once, did not mail a copy of the summons and complaint, and did not check the box attesting to mailing.
Agreements: Extension of time to respond, conditioned on Defendant not attacking service
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California
Case Citations: AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev, Kremerman v. White, Pasadena Medi-Center Assocs. v. Sup.Ct. (Houts), Kappel v. Bartlett, Summers v. McClanahan
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 415.20, subd. (b), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 412.20(a)(3), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 418.10(a)(1)
Roles: Plaintiff (Judy Sharinger), Defendant (Eva Field), Process Server, Judge (Edward B. Moreton, Jr.)
Significant Statements:
* "Service of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant." (AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev)
* "To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential." (Kremerman v. White)
* "A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow" may move "to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her" that results from lack of proper service. (Code of Civ. Proc. ยง418.10(a)(1))
* "When a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process, 'the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.'" (Summers, 140 Cal.App.4th at 413)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on the motion to quash service of summons filed by Defendant Eva Field. The court finds that the service of summons was improper because the process server only attempted personal service once and did not mail a copy of the summons and complaint to Defendant. The court also finds that the motion to quash is untimely because it was filed after the deadline for filing a responsive pleading. The court denies the motion to quash and finds that it has jurisdiction over Defendant.
