

Hearing Date:             June
13, 2024
Case
Name:                Michaels v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
Case
No.:                    23STCV03454
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment

Moving
Party:             Defendant Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
Opposing Party:          None

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary judgment is granted. 

This is a medical
malpractice action. The Complaint alleges, on March 29, 2022, Plaintiff Ed
Michaels (Plaintiff) was injured by Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(Cedars-Sinai), California Rehabilitation Institute, and Alexandra Strouss,
M.S., in the course of their treatment and care of Plaintiff. The Complaint
contains a single cause of action for professional negligence/medical
malpractice.  
 
Defendant
Cedar-Sinai Medical Center (Defendant) now moves for summary judgment. No
opposition was filed.  
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
Medical Negligence Cause of
Action:
 
Defendant moves for
summary judgment on the grounds that (1.) the care and treatment provided to
Plaintiff by Defendant was, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, at
all times appropriate and within the applicable standard of care in the
community; and (2.) no negligent act or omission by Defendant was the cause of,
or a substantial factor in causing, Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Johnson
v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) To prove a medical
malpractice claim, the plaintiff must first establish the applicable standard
of care and then demonstrate that the standard of care was breached. (Powell
v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122.) 
 
In support of the
motion for summary judgment, Defendant submits the following evidence:
 
On March 25, 2022,
Plaintiff underwent an initial consult with orthopedic surgeon, Terrence Kim,
M.D. (Dr. Kim) at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center; Plaintiff was diagnosed with
cervical spondylitic myelopathy and lumbar stenosis causing neurogenic
claudication. (UMF 1.) Plaintiff expressed interest in lumbar surgery, but not
cervical surgery. (UMF 1.) Dr. Kim explained there was concern for
postoperative neurologic deficit from Plaintiff’s cervical spine if a lumbar
operation was only performed. Plaintiff rejected this and Dr. Kim advised
Plaintiff to see another surgeon if he would not proceed with Dr. Kim’s
recommendation. (UMF 1.) 
 
On March 26, 2022,
Plaintiff was admitted to Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center due to
worsening pain and ataxia. (UMF 2.) On March 27, 2022, Plaintiff was evaluated
by Sydney Weaver, R.N.; Plaintiff refused all medications and refused to answer
several admission questions. (UMF 3.) On that same day, Jamie Fedele, R.N.
documented Plaintiff refused to have his blood type checked and crossed. (UMF
4.) 
 
On March 28, 2022,
Plaintiff elected to move forward with the procedure with Dr. Kim. (UMF 6.) The
procedure was completed and Plaintiff was taken to the PACU in stable
condition. (UMF 6.) 
 
On March 29, 2022,
Kristen Montgomery, R.N. documented Plaintiff refused to undergo all labs that
morning. (UMF 7.) Also, on March 29, 2022, Plaintiff underwent an initial
physical therapy evaluation with Avital Shainberg, PT; the AMPAC Basic Mobility
Scale score indicated Plaintiff met the requirements for discharge. (UMF 8.) Notably,
there was no documentation of a fall in the physical therapy note. (UMF 8.) 
On March 29, 2022,
Bita Joobbani, PA-C documented a progress note after she was called by a nurse
at 5:48 p.m. stating Plaintiff had an unwitnessed fall and was found on the
ground in his room after he finished working with physical therapy. (UMF 10.) Plaintiff
had no loss of consciousness and baseline weakness and paresthesia; Plaintiff
stated he lost balance and fell to the ground hitting his head. (UMF 10.) He
expressed dizziness and a headache, but he denied having blurry vision. (UMF
10.) A head CT was ordered but Plaintiff refused the head CT. (UMF 10-11.) He
instead indicated he wanted to walk around but refused to carry a walker,
refused a chair alarm, refused to wear non-skid socks, and he removed a yellow
fall risk band from his wrist. (UMF 11-12.) 
 
On March 31, 2022,
Plaintiff told Nurse Montgomery that he hit his head, but provided inconsistent
information to the nurse and doctor about how it happened. (UMF 13.) Later that
evening, at approximately 7:29, p.m. Art Borja, R.N. documented that he had
asked Plaintiff the morning before if he had fallen and he was told “somebody
sat him on the edge of the bed and he slid” but he did not hit his head on the
floor. (UMF 14.) At approximately 8:51 p.m. Plaintiff was found out of bed by
Astrid Reynosa, R.N. Plaintiff was asked to go back into bed due to fall
history, but he said he would rather sit on the couch because he did not like
hearing the bed alarm. (UMF 15.) 
 
On April 1, 2022,
at approximately 5:29 a.m., Plaintiff was found walking outside of his room in
the hallway; after being reminded to stay in his bed due to fall risk, he
became agitated and refused to return to his room until he was escorted back to
his room by security. (UMF 16.) 
 
On April 5, 2022,
Plaintiff finally agreed to undergo a head CT exam – the results of which were
normal. That same day, Plaintiff was cleared for discharge; however, he appealed
the discharge due to neck pain. (UMF 18.) Plaintiff was offered home health and
outpatient physical therapy but he refused. (UMF 18.) 
 
After setting
forth the relevant undisputed facts of Plaintiff’s history of care with
Defendant (UMF 1-18), Defendant submits the expert declaration of Katherine
Kelly, R.N., DNP, APRN. This expert declaration states that, based on her
review of the Complaint and Plaintiff’s medical records, “all the care and
treatment provided was appropriate and met the standard of care in the
community. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 6.) She states she reached this opinion based on her
determination that “appropriate risk management precautions were ordered and implemented,
and Plaintiff chose not to heed Defendant’s advisement regarding fall
precautions.” (Kelly Decl., ¶ 6(a)-(c).) Further, Nurse Kelly opines that “to a
degree of medical probability” “no act or omission” by Defendants “cause or
contributed to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant’s
evidence affirmatively demonstrates that Plaintiff cannot prove the essential
elements of a breach of duty of care or causation. Defendant has shifted its
initial burden on this medical negligence claim.
 
            In
the absence of an opposition, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact in dispute. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. Defendant is to prepare, serve and lodge a
proposed Judgment.  
 