 Case Number:  21STCP03455    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE REVISED
RULING ON APPLICATION OF PLAINTIFF FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER, TEMPORARY
PROTECTIVE ORDER AND WRIT OF ATTACHMENT 
Bank Otkritie
Financial Corp. v. Aleksandr Blyumkin, Case No. 21STCP03455
Hearing Date: March 7,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
          On
February 5, 2024, plaintiff Bank filed this application. Bank provides the
necessary evidence under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) sec. 484.090 supporting
the four elements that must be proven to obtain a right to attach order under
CCP sec. 483.010: 
 
1. Bank’s claim is contractual in nature. 
2. The claim is for a readily ascertainable sum greater
than $500. 
3. Bank’s claim is unsecured by real property. 
4. Bank’s claim arises out of conduct by defendant Blyumkin
of a business, as opposed to “personal, family or household purposes.”[1] 
 
          In
summary, the Russian judgment Bank seeks this Court to recognize arises out of the
alleged default on a loan by Bank’s predecessor to a business, which Blyumkin agreed
to as Chairman of the Board, for business purposes, and that he personally
guaranteed. Blyumkin thereafter agreed to himself borrow the funds when the
borrower failed to repay what it owed. 
 
          The
amount outstanding is contended to be over US$2.7 million based on current
exchange rates with the Russian ruble. By this action, Bank requests this Court
recognize and enforce the judgment of the Tagansky district court (the
“Tagansky Court”) - in or near Moscow - that this amount is owed by Blyumkin. 
 
          Bank
argues that its claim has “probable validity” (as defined by CCP sec. 481.190) for
purposes of CCP sec. 484.030 in that it meets the requirements under CCP secs.
1715 and 1718 for recognition of a foreign judgment. The burden is shifted to
Blyumkin to assert any applicable defenses under CCP sec. 1716. 
 
          Bank
seeks a right to attach order to prevent Blyumkin dissipating assets pending
this Court making a final decision on Bank’s request, contending it faces
serious consequences without provisional relief. Specifically, as required by CCP
sec. 484.020, Bank seeks to attach the following assets of Blyumkin: certain
residential real property, bank accounts, as well as his shares in Petroteq
Energy, Inc. 
 
          Blyumkin
had until five court days before the hearing to file opposition, under CCP sec.
484.060(a) and failed to do so. Not having received any opposition, the Court
issued a tentative ruling to grant the application.           
 
          
Thereafter, Blyumkin filed a late opposition memorandum and declaration
of counsel that raised the following issues: 
 
          First, as
a U.S. citizen, he was not able to return to Russia to defend against the case
due to Directive 635-r of the Russian Federation, imposing travel restrictions
due to COVID, issued March 16, 2020 (subsequently amended by Directive 140-r on
January 26, 2021). Though he is fluent in Russian, he had difficulty
understanding the document and wanted to seek the help of a lawyer in Russia. Given
his inability to return to Russia, this Court should not recognize the October
12, 2020 judgment against him that he was not able to defend. Blyumkin was
served on July 1, 2020 with the papers in the Russian case, filed March 13,
2020 when the restrictions were already in place.  
 
          Second, the
Russian court wrongfully proceeded forward to enter a judgment against him
without informing him beforehand that it had rejected his request to continue
the case given his inability to return to defend the case, by letter dated July
15, 2020. (Ex. 6 to Bank’s motion for summary judgment) (In that letter,
Blyumkin also asserted that the court lacked jurisdiction, that he should have
been sued where he resided and that he denied the claim asserting the defenses
referenced below.) Given this alleged lack of due process, this Court should
not recognize the judgment. 
 
          Third, the
district court that rendered the judgment sought to be recognized here
lacked subject matter jurisdiction to hear the case and the Court should not
recognize the judgment. The case should instead have been heard in one of the Russian
commercial courts. 
 
          Finally, on
the merits, he asserts two defenses: 
 
(1)    The
sole recourse on Blyumkin’s guarantee of the initial loan of September 18, 2013
(that was refinanced by agreement dated March 18, 2016) was to his pledge of stock
in the predecessor company (MCW Enterprises) that borrowed the funds that were
refinanced in the loan that is the subject of this case. He argues that Bank
may not pursue him personally on the loan agreement that is the basis for the
judgment separate and apart from the stock that was security (of which Bank
still has possession) without having disclosed to him that the refinancing was not
limited to recourse to that stock. 
(2)    The
documentation on the second loan was fabricated and his signature to those
documents forged.  
 
          At the
hearing on February 29, 2024, the Court heard oral argument of counsel. Notwithstanding
the late opposition, the Court determined it needed to hear the issues on the
merits to avoid likely further delay and complication later if it did not do so.
The Court allowed Blyumkin to file a declaration of his own by the end of the
day, for a reply to be filed by March 5, 2024 and for the hearing to be
continued to March 7, 2024. 
          Later, on
February 29, 2024, Blyumkin filed his own declaration to substantiate these
contentions. 
 
          On March 5, 2024, Bank filed a Reply, together
with a Request for Judicial Notice. Bank argues in summary: Blyumkin’s
late-filed declaration is unreliable and conflicts with the earlier filed brief
of his counsel; stating first that he signed the second loan under duress but
then contending it was forged. Moreover, Blyumkin’s declaration does not state
that Bank advised him that the second loan would be non-recourse. Bank asks the
Court to consider Article 155.1 of the Civil Procedure Code of the Russian
Federation (“CPC”), allowing participation through videoconferencing systems,
whereby Blyumkin could have attended the Russian proceedings remotely. [2] 
 
          Dr. Rachkov’s
expert report is relevant to consideration of Blyumkin’s defenses. Rachkov
contends: 
 
1.      
The Tagansky Court had subject matter
jurisdiction over the dispute. The Russian commercial or Arbitrazh courts
did not have exclusive jurisdiction over Bank’s claims. The amount in dispute
is not relevant to which court has jurisdiction. Rather, as he explains in
paras. 32 through 43, the district court is the correct court for bringing an action
against an individual guarantor (who is not a registered individual
entrepreneur (which Blyumkin was not)) (see para. 36) -- even if ordinarily
under Article 28 of the CPC business (or “economic”) matters would be heard in
the commercial courts rather than the civil courts. (See para. 33) He
cites to Exhibit 3 to his report, showing various rulings of Russian courts (in
the original and translated) corroborating this conclusion. He also contends
that Blyumkin did not raise his objection to the district court hearing this case
(or seek termination of the proceedings under Article 220 of the CPC) and
therefore he accepted the jurisdiction of that court and is now estopped to
assert that the judgment is invalid absent error on the merits. 
2.      
The Tagansky Court had personal jurisdiction
over Blyumkin. As Rachkov explains in paras. 44 through 57, that Blyumkin is a
foreigner is not determinative. Article 402 of the CPC gives courts
jurisdiction over claims where performance of the agreement is to take place
within Russia. Under the loan, the borrower was to have met its obligation of
payment by depositing funds in its account with the Bank. Bank is in Moscow. In
turn, as concerns Blyumkin, Rachkov points to Article 29 of the CPC as allowing
the claim to be filed at the election of the plaintiff where the agreement is
to be performed or where it was executed. Again, Rachkov cites to various court
rulings in Ex. 3 to his report supporting these conclusions.
3.      
Blyumkin had sufficient notice of the Tagansky Court
action for that court to then render judgment. Blyumkin acknowledged receipt of
summons by thereafter filing documents with the Court. 
4.      
The second loan was not a “transfer of debt.”
The second loan was an independent obligation. The initial borrower repaid what
it borrowed by way of the second loan. Bank disbursed funds pursuant to the
second loan whereby the first loan was repaid. (See para. 95) By way of the
second loan, Blyumkin secured a one-year grace period. For this he had to pay the
funds back   at a higher interest rate than under the first
loan. Interest under the first loan was at 10% as opposed to 18% under the
second loan. 
5.      
Blyumkin did not properly raise the issue of the
statute of limitations. See paras. 58-59 of report. However, even if he had, Bank’s
filing of the action was timely – one day before the statute was to have
expired. He contends that the three-year statute of limitation expired on March
17, 2020 (see para. 62); three years after the deadline for performance of the second
loan on March 17, 2020. He asserts that Bank sent by mail its claim to the
Court on March 16, 2020, which claim the Court accepted on May 7, 2020. (See
paras. 66-67) Rachkov cites to a court decision to support the claim that
filing of the claim is as of the day the claim is put in the mail.  
6.      
Blyumkin signed the loan. Rachkov identified
various documents confirming same, as well as the opinion of a specialist forensic
expert corroborating Blyumkin’s signature. 
7.      
Bank was not required to obtain collateral from Blyumkin
for his agreement under the loan. 
8.      
The Russian judgment addresses the factual circumstances
involved. Specifically, the Court considered Blyumkin’s inability to
participate in the case, acknowledged the objections he sent to the Court,
including his suspicions about issuance of the loan, denying the issuance of
funds and execution of the loan agreement. The Court found Blyumkin could have
participated in the case by having an attorney appear for him if he could not
handle it personally. Further, the Court went on to conclude that Blyumkin’s
statement of the impossibility of his personal participation was not aimed at
securing a “legally protected interest, but at delaying the consideration of
the statement of claim, which is an abuse of the right and infringes the
plaintiff’s right to conduct legal proceedings within a reasonable time.” In
addition, though Blyumkin did not provide any evidence of a forgery, the Court nonetheless
scheduled an examination of his signature by a forensic expert. The Court found
the evidence was sufficient to confirm the circumstances of the disputed loan
agreement. Finally, the Court found unjustified Blyumkin’s objections based on the
lack of security for the loan. The judgment is now final: Though Blyumkin filed
an appeal from the judgment on November 3, 2020, the appeal was rejected for
several procedural reasons. Blyumkin failed to correct those issues by the deadline
of December 25, 2020. As a result, the appeal was rejected and the judgment
became conclusive and enforceable as of November 13, 2020.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The requirements for recognition of a foreign
judgment in California are set forth in the Uniform Foreign Country
Money Judgments Recognition Act, enacted in 2007 (CCP secs. 1713–1725) (the
“Recognition Act”). The Recognition Act applies to foreign-country judgments
that grant or deny recovery of a sum of money and that are final, conclusive,
and enforceable under the law of the foreign country. (CCP secs. 1715(a)).
Under the Recognition Act, the party seeking recognition of a foreign country
judgment bears the initial burden to establish that the judgment falls within
the scope of the statute. (CCP sec. 1715(c).) Once the initial showing is made,
there is a presumption in favor of enforcement, and the party resisting
recognition bears the burden of establishing a basis for nonrecognition. (CCP sec.
1716(e)) There are both mandatory and discretionary grounds for nonrecognition.
Unless one of these grounds applies, the court must recognize the foreign
judgment. (CCP sec. 1716(a)). If the court finds that the foreign country
judgment is entitled to recognition in California, it is “[c]onclusive between
the parties to the same extent as the judgment of a sister state entitled to
full faith and credit in this state would be conclusive,” and “[e]nforceable in
the same manner and to the same extent as a judgment rendered in this state.” (CCP
sec. 1719(a)–(b); AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189)
 
The Court finds that Bank has met
the threshold requirements for recognition of a foreign judgment, on the basis
that: the judgment of the Tagansky Court grants recovery of a sum of money; is
final, conclusive, and enforceable in Russia; and is not a judgment for taxes,
a fine, or other penalty, or a domestic relations judgment (CCP sec.
1715(a)–(b)).
 
The burden then shifts to
Blyumkin to establish a basis for nonrecognition (CCP sec. 1716). The Court
finds that Blyumkin has not successfully made out any basis for nonrecognition.

 
Personal jurisdiction
 
The Court finds that the Tagansky Court
had personal jurisdiction over Blyumkin. The situation here is strikingly similar
to that in AO Alfa-Bank of “a Moscow businessman entering into an
agreement with a Moscow bank to provide a surety to a business in Moscow for a
debt that’s being performed in Moscow.”[3]
Blyumkin clearly had “sufficient minimum contacts” in Moscow for there to be
personal jurisdiction (In re Rejuvi Laboratory, Inc., 26 F.4th 1129
(2022), citing Schwarzenegger v. Fred Martin Motor
Co., 374
F.3d 797, 802 (9th Cir. 2004)). In In re Rejuvi, finding that Rejuvi
waived its personal jurisdiction defense by voluntarily appearing in the South
Australian district court, the court found persuasive a series of New York
cases interpreting an essentially identical version of the Recognition Act. The
New York cases found the law “to foreclose a defendant from contesting a
foreign judgment for lack of personal jurisdiction once the defendant has done
anything more than it had to do to preserve its jurisdictional objection.” In
addition, CCP sec. 1717(b)(2) provides that a court shall not refuse
recognition for lack of personal jurisdiction if the defendant “voluntarily
appeared in the proceeding, other than for the purpose of protecting property
seized or threatened with seizure in the proceeding or of contesting the jurisdiction
of the court over the defendant.” Here, Blyumkin has done just that by filing
various documents in the Tagansky Court, and thereby participating in
the proceedings.
 
In re Rejuvi also cited
the district court’s decision in De Fontbrune v. Wofsy, 409
F. Supp. 3d 823, 834 (N.D. Cal. 2019), whereby the district court held that
because the defendants had presented arguments on the merits in the French
court, they could not object under the Recognition Act to the exercise of
personal jurisdiction by that court: “Defendants cannot voluntarily submit to
the jurisdiction of the French courts to bring a challenge on the merits of the
[money judgment] and simultaneously complain that the French courts lack
jurisdiction over them.” In this case, Blyumkin sent objections to the lawsuit to the
Tagansky Court, thereby precluding him from now raising personal jurisdiction
as a defense under the Recognition Act. 
 
Furthermore, following that logic, and
the principle that a person cannot raise the same issue twice in courts here, all
the issues that were raised by Blyumkin and considered by the Tagansky Court (see
further below regarding due process) cannot now be raised and opened again for reconsideration
in this Court. (See Naoko Ohno v. Yuko Yasuma, 723 F.3d 984, 997
(9th Cir. 2013)
 
Subject matter jurisdiction
 
Subject matter jurisdiction must be
assessed with reference to foreign law (De Fontbrune v. Wofsy, 39 F.4th
1214 (9th Cir. 2022)). The Court is persuaded by Rachkov’s
explanation, at paras. 32 through 43 of his report, that the Tagansky Court
had subject matter jurisdiction under Russian law. Blyumkin fails to address the
Russian caselaw Rachkov identified to support his opinion. 
 
Service of process
 
The Court must consider whether
the evidence establishes proper service under Russian law and, if it does, whether
such service was reasonably calculated, under all the circumstances, to impart
actual notice (AO Alfa-Bank, supra). A Russian court typically effects
service at the address provided in the plaintiff’s statement of claim. The
court sends the summons by registered mail (return receipt requested),
telegram, or other documented means (Id.). At paras. 77-82 of his
report, Rachkov sets out the actions taken by Bank and the Tagansky Court to
provide notice to Blyumkin in accordance with this standard procedure. It is
clear their efforts did impart actual notice, and in sufficient time to enable
the defendant to defend, as Blyumkin thereafter filed documents with the Tagansky
Court. This service of process under Russian law also appears to comport with our
traditional notions of due process (Id.)
 
Due process
 
There is a mandatory ground in
the Recognition Act for nonrecognition where a foreign judgment is rendered
under a judicial system that does not provide impartial tribunals or procedures
compatible with the requirements of due process of law. This applies only where
there are system-wide concerns with the impartial administration of justice in
the foreign country (AO Alfa-Bank).[4] The
Recognition Act also provides a discretionary ground for nonrecognition where
the specific proceeding was not compatible with due process requirements. Russia’s
notion of process need not be identical with those here, but the Court must
consider whether the foreign procedures are “fundamentally fair” and do not
offend “basic fairness” (AO Alfa-Bank, citing Society of Lloyd’s v.
Ashenden (7th Cir. 2000) 233 F.3d 473, 478). 
 
The evidence shows that
Blyumkin’s treatment by the Tagansky Court was “fundamentally fair”. In Bank
Melli Iran v. Pahlavi (9th Cir. 1995) 58 F.3d 1406, by contrast, the
evidence demonstrated that the defendant “could not expect fair treatment from
the courts of Iran, could not personally appear before those courts, could not
obtain proper legal representation in Iran, and could not even obtain local
witnesses on her behalf.” Bank Melli Iran is distinguishable from this
case; for example, in Bank
Melli Iran, the court found that the “Shah’s sister [Pahlavi] would
encounter great danger should she try to enter Iran” due to the political
climate, anti-American sentiment and terrorism concerns. Here there has been
nothing raised, and there is nothing in the record, regarding Blyumkin’s
inability to obtain due process by reason of concern about his being a US
citizen going back to Russia or as a result of him being originally from
Ukraine in light of the current war with Russia.[5] The
Tagansky Court considered Blyumkin’s inability to participate in the case due
to COVID, but found that his statement of the impossibility of his personal
participation was an improper attempt to delay the proceedings, and that he
could have participated in the case by having an attorney appear for him. As a
seemingly sophisticated businessman, there is no evidence that Blyumkin could
not have procured a lawyer from here or have one appear for him. In addition,
it appears he may have been able to participate in the Russian proceedings
remotely. 
 
In addition, the Tagansky Court
acknowledged the objections Blyumkin sent to it and even took measures to
investigate Blyumkin’s forgery claim, despite him not providing any evidence of
a forgery. However, the Tagansky Court found the evidence was sufficient to
confirm the circumstances of the disputed loan agreement and that Blyumkin’s
objections based on the lack of security for the loan were unjustified. Blyumkin
had the opportunity to appeal from the Tagansky Court’s judgment, which he did,
but he then failed to rectify several defects with the appeal by the deadline.
 
The Court is satisfied that nothing
in the evidence suggests the Tagansky Court’s treatment of the proceedings, or
Blyumkin’s ability to obtain due process, offends “basic fairness.”
 
Public policy
 
The Recognition Act allows a
court to decline to recognize a foreign-country money judgment if the “judgment
or the cause of action or claim for relief on which the judgment is based is
repugnant to the public policy of [California] or of the United States” (CCP
sec. 1716(c)(1)(C)). The California courts have set a high bar for repugnancy
under the Recognition Act (De Fontbrune, citing Ohno, supra, 723 F.3d
at 990). The standard is that the judgment is “so offensive to our
public policy as to be prejudicial to recognized standards of morality and to
the general interests of the citizens” (Hyundai Sec. Co. v. Lee (2015) 232
Cal.App.4th 1379, citing Java Oil Ltd. v. Sullivan, supra, 168
Cal.App.4th at 1189). Public policy is violated “only if recognition or
enforcement of the foreign-country judgment would tend clearly to injure public
health, the public morals, or the public confidence in the administration of
law, or would undermine that sense of security for individual rights, whether
of personal liberty or of private property, which any citizen ought to feel” (Hyundai
Sec., citing Hunt v. BP Exploration Co. (Libya), Ltd., 492 F.Supp.
885, 901 (N.D.Tex.1980)).
 
The Court finds that Blyumkin
has not met the high bar for a judgment to be repugnant to public policy based
on the record in this case.
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court finds that Bank has established the probable validity of its
claim,[6] together
with the other undisputed requirements, and grants the application. Bank shall post
an undertaking in the sum of $10,000. (CCP sec. 489.220(a))  
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 


