  Case Number:  18STPB10454    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON PETITIONERS’ MOTIONS IN LIMINE NOS. 1 and 2 
 
In re: The Nuszer
Family Trust, dated November 26, 2002, Case No. 18STPB10454
Hearing Date: March 7,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
Motion In Limine No. 1: 
          By this
motion, filed February 29, 2024, Petitioners Maya Rubin and Jason Rubin,
successor co-trustees of the above-referenced Trust and co-conservators of
Sarolta Nuszer, seek to exclude Respondents Sarolta’s son, Jim Nuszer, and his
wife Maria Jacobo, from offering any evidence at trial related to alleged bad
acts of Sarolta’s daughters, Cathy Abbasi or Sarah Mogel, Sarolta’s alleged
fear of Cathy or Sarah and Sarolta’s decision to transfer real property
interests to Jim.[1]
Petitioners contend these transfers on September 10, 2018 – that are no longer
in dispute - are irrelevant to whether Jim and Maria stole Sarolta’s interest
in NB Industries and of her share of the fair market value of 700 Ivy Street in
Glendale - which is what this trial concerns. These alleged bad acts also took
place long after the events concerning the taking of NB by Jim in or about 2006,
the alleged transfer of Trust assets to EMBE in 2012 and entering the lease with
Maria for Ivy Street in 2015 -- that are at issue. 
           In their
opposition, filed March 5, 2024, Respondents make the following arguments: First,
that the Court needs to consider Sarolta’s wishes and that the relevant evidence
sought to be excluded would show that Sarolta trusted Jim but not Cathy or
Sarah. They therefore argue that with this evidence the Court will conclude
that Respondents did not wrongly take anything from the Trust. Second, citing Kelly
v. New West Fed. Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670-671, that
the evidence sought to be excluded is too vague to be subject to an order
excluding evidence. 
 
Motion In Limine No. 2: 
          By this
motion, also filed February 29, 2024, Petitioners seek to exclude financial
documents, including tax returns, from before 2014, and an unproduced set of
books. This motion is made upon the grounds that Respondents, and EMBE’s
manager and accountant, have all stated previously in response to discovery
requests that they did not have any responsive documents. 
          In their
opposition, filed March 5, 2024, Respondents do not dispute that they cannot
introduce documents that were not produced previously but argue that this does
not prohibit them from putting on testimony in lieu of those documents. As they
also acknowledge, however, such testimony may be vulnerable to objection but
such rulings are premature at this point. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Motion in Limine No. 1: 
 
          Respondents
do not address Petitioners’ point that the events sought to be excluded occurred
far earlier than the events Respondents describe. However, it is unclear to the
Court at this juncture whether those subsequent events will demonstrate whether
the actions Respondents took earlier were consistent with what Sarolta
allegedly later wanted or if those later events were the product of any
decreased cognitive ability on her part. It is at least conceivable that those
events may substantiate Respondents’ defense that they would not have wrongly
taken from the Trust and that it is only Cathy’s allegedly improper claims that
are motivating this petition (that Petitioners assumed after the Court
appointed them to take over from Cathy as trustee). Respondents are entitled to
put on their case. Petitioners will not suffer undue prejudice by the Court
hearing that defense in this bench (as opposed to jury) trial. That the trial
will take longer as a result is not sufficient grounds to deny the motion. 
          As
Respondents also note it is difficult for the Court to make this determination
without consideration of the underlying evidence that it does not now have.
Further, the motion seeks to exclude potentially considerable evidence that
again it is not clear might turn out to be relevant. For this reason, the lack
of specificity to what is sought to be excluded is material. The motion does
not satisfy the requirement of LASC Local Rule 3.57(a)(1) for specificity.      
 
Motion in Limine No. 2: 
 
          There is no
dispute that the Court should exclude considering documents that were not
produced or advised to be no longer available in response to Petitioners’
various requests of Respondents and associated persons with financial
information. What decisions the court may make as to allowing testimony
concerning what might be in those records – or as to the matters referenced in
the opposition - remains to be seen. That is not the subject of this motion. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the first motion and grants the second motion. 
 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


