  Case Number:  22TRCV00843    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ROBERT
  W. MATHEWS by and through his attorney in fact, NORBERT ROCK, et al.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00843




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PALM
  CONSULTING SERVICES, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 27,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Palm Consulting Services, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Norbert Rock
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED as to the first, second, and fourth causes of action and
GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action.
BACKGROUND
            On September 22, 2022, plaintiffs
Robert W. Mathews, by and through his attorney in fact, Norbert Rock, and
Norbert Rock filed a complaint against Palm Consulting Services, Inc. and Amity
Care Inc. for (1) to void all contracts entered into by Mathews or on his
behalf executed after July 17, 2020 due to legal incapacity, (2) to void all
contracts entered into by Mathews or on his behalf executed after July 17, 2020
due to undue influence, (3) rescission and revocation of power of attorney, (4)
declaratory relief, (5) specific performance of oral contract for visits and
phone contact, and (6) elder financial abuse.
            At the hearing on the motion on
October 24, 2023, the court continued the hearing to refer the matter to Dept.
1 for review, consideration, and determination by the supervising judge of
civil as to whether the matter should be assigned to the probate court.
            On January 11, 2024, Dept. 1 issued
a minute order stating that the court takes no action as there is no issue
pending determination by Dept. 1 and that it is not authorized to reclassify
the case to another division of the court.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 438 states, in relevant
part:  “(b)(1) A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion provided for in this section
may only be made on one of the following grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint. 
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following
conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  Smiley
v. Citibank (S.D.), N.A. (1995) 11 Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation
omitted).  “[T]he trial court generally
confines itself to the complaint and accepts as true all material facts alleged
therein.  As appropriate, however, it may
extend its consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.”  Id.
(citations omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Palm Consulting Services,
Inc. requests that the court enter judgment on the pleadings in its favor on
the first, second, fourth, and sixth causes of action in the complaint on the
ground that the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
or causes of action against defendant.
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
Robert Mathews currently resides in Manhattan Beach, was born in 1932, and
suffers from ill health.  He has resided
most of his life in Germany.  Complaint, ¶3.  Plaintiff Norbert Rock resides in
Germany.  He is the attorney in fact for
Mathews, pursuant to a duly authorized, durable power of attorney, executed in
Germany, pursuant to German law, on February 12, 2016.  This power of attorney was certified for
international use on October 23, 2020. 
Rock is the son of the best friend of Mathews and his deceased wife and
has maintained a very close, personal relationship with Mathews since he was a
youth.  Id., ¶4.  Defendant Palm Consulting is the holder of a
subsequently executed power of attorney executed in California on June 16,
2021.  Id., ¶6.
            The complaint further alleges that
after Mathews’ wife deceased, Mathews continued to maintain a strong, fraternal
relationship with Rock, as a de facto stepson. 
Id., ¶13.  Mathews announced plans
to visit California.  He requested that
Rock maintain his estate interests in Germany, both while Mathews was present
in Germany and while he was visiting California.  To that end, Mathews executed a power of
attorney and health care proxy in favor of Rock in February 2016.  The POA is “durable” and of the highest
authenticity in Germany, sanctified in the German courts and certified for
international use in October 2020.  It
can only be revoked by a valid declaration of the principal, and where the
principal is incompetent, only invalidated or terminated by a formal order from
a German court.  Id., ¶14.  Rock managed Mathews’ affairs in Germany and
corresponded with him, both while Mathews was abroad in California and when he
was in Germany.  Id., ¶15.
            The complaint further alleges that
Mathews had an accident wherein he slipped and fell, striking his head, on July
17, 2020, while in California, necessitating his hospitalization.  Mathews was diagnosed with dementia while
hospitalized, and subsequently, while at Santa Monica Health Care Center on
December 8, 2020.  Id., ¶16.  Mathews subsequently attempted to negotiate
transactions concerning his accounts at Wells Fargo bank wherein he maintained
extensive cash accounts totaling more than $1 million.  Id., ¶17. 
Wells Fargo bank determined that Mathews may have been, or was not
competent, and referred him to their recommended attorney, Peter Goldberg, who
in turn referred Mathews to defendant Palm Consulting Services.  Id., ¶18. 
Notwithstanding that Mathews maintained full time health insurance
policy in Germany, including long term care and nursing care insurance, and
notwithstanding that Wells Fargo bank refused to allow Mathews to execute
transactions concerning his own assets, due to their concern about his mental
competency, Goldberg persuaded Mathews to sign an attorney-client fee agreement
and, thereafter, various testamentary documents and referred Mathews to Palm
Consulting Services who then improperly had Mathews sign their agreement for
consulting services and “durable power of attorney for management of property
and personal affairs” on June 16, 2021. 
Id., ¶19.
            The complaint further alleges that
in March 2020 and throughout this time, the US borders were closed to
international visitors due to Covid-19 pandemic and Rock could not visit
Mathews until November 2021.  Id., ¶20.  Although Rock had been conversing with
Mathews by telephone every Saturday, the phone service/access was also
terminated in 2021, leaving Rock no choice but to come to the US when the
border re-opened.  Although Rock was
initially turned away when he came to physically visit Mathews at his town home
in Manhattan Beach, on November 16, 2021, he was eventually permitted to visit
Mathews, but only with multiple other persons present, and only once he
insisted.  Then in March 2022, when Rock
arrived, there was a note on the door informing Rock that he would not be permitted
to visit with or communicate by telephone with Mathews any longer.  Id., ¶21. 
Mathews, by this attorney in fact, is informed and believes that he has
been prevented, against his will, from going outside of his home or
communicating with outside parties, including Rock.  Mathews is further informed and believes that
he has executed a last will and testament, bequeathing his estate to third
parties of which he has no familiarity or knowledge, and no natural interest in
benefitting; that he has had a health care agreement executed in favor of
“Amity Care Services Inc.”; that his pension payments from Germany have been
routed to Palm Consulting Services and Amity Care Services and Mathews
meanwhile is being held captive in his Manhattan Beach townhome.  Id., ¶22.
            Under the first cause of action to
void all contracts due to legal incapacity, plaintiffs allege that the German
POA is still legally viable and authorizes Rock to act on Mathews’ behalf for
all purposes; the POA was never revoked or terminated by competent declaration;
and the POA can only be terminated by a German court of competent
jurisdiction.  Id., ¶25.  Mathews was diagnosed with “unspecified
dementia,” rendering him legally incapacitated, unable to execute any legal
documents and susceptible to undue influence. 
Id., ¶26.  Amity is a party to a
caregiver agreement entered into on September 11, 2020, at a time Mathews was
incapacitated.  It is null and void as
Mathews was without legal capacity to enter into the agreement.  Id., ¶27. 
All other legal agreements entered into after July 17, 2020, including
the Durable Power of Attorney for Management of Property and Personal Affairs
in favor of Palm executed on June 16, 2021, any attorney client agreements
executed between Mathews and Goldberg, wills and trusts and other testamentary
and non-testamentary documents prepared on Mathews behalf and consulting
agreements with Palm and any other purported contracts executed by Mathews
after July 17, 2020 are legally void due to Mathews’ incapacity.  Id., ¶28.
            The second cause of action alleges
the same and alleges undue influence.
            The fourth cause for declaratory
relief alleges that a true dispute exists as to whether the POA executed in
favor of Palm on June 16, 2021 is legally valid; a dispute also exists as to
whether plaintiff’s preexisting POA in favor of Rock, executed in February 2016
remains valid and enforceable.  Id., ¶42.  
            The sixth cause of action for elder
abuse alleges that defendants took advantage of Mathews as a result of his
disabled state.  Id., ¶51.  Defendants profited thereby at plaintiff’s
disadvantage.  Id., ¶52.
            Standing
            The complaint alleges that
plaintiff(s) Rock, and Mathews by and through his attorney in fact Norbert
Rock, have standing to bring this action pursuant to Probate Code §§4540 and
4541.  Complaint, ¶24.
Defendant argues that plaintiff
Rock lacks standing under the German POA to sue on behalf of Mathews.  Defendant asserts that the German POA only
confers powers included under the Uniform Statutory Power of Attorney Act.  Defendant contends that the German POA
provides that Rock has the power to “initiate, prosecute, and defend legal
proceedings and claims on [Mathews’] behalf, file actions to determine adverse
claims, intervene in litigation, or act as an amicus curiae in any proceedings
affecting [Mathews’] interests.” 
Defendant also contends that the Uniform Power of Attorney Act conveys
powers upon the agent under the power of attorney that are “broad and
sweeping,” citing to Probate Code §4401. 
Defendant further argues that “[d]espite broad statutory language of the
power of attorney with respect to claims and litigation, the attorney in fact
may not act as an attorney at law on behalf of his principal.”  Marriage of Caballero (1994) 27 Cal.
App. 4th 1139, 1151.  The
court notes that plaintiff Rock is not acting as an attorney at law as he is
represented by counsel.
             “A power of attorney is a device available to
a person to empower another to act on his or her behalf.  The durable power of attorney remains
effective notwithstanding the subsequent incapacity of the principal.”  Marriage of Caballero, supra, at 1151.
 “The scope of power of attorney depends
on the language of the instrument, which is strictly construed.”  Tran v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2002) 104
Cal. App. 4th 1202, 1214.
            Probate Code §4540 states in part, “Subject
to Section 4503, a petition may be filed under this part by any of the
following persons:  (a) The
attorney-in-fact. . . .”  Under Probate
Code §4541, “A petition may be filed under this part for any one or more of the
following purposes: 
(a) Determining whether the power
of attorney is in effect or has terminated. . . .
(d) Declaring that the authority of
the attorney-in-fact is revoked on a determination by the court of all of the
following:
(1) The attorney-in-fact has
violated or is unfit to perform the fiduciary duties under the power of
attorney.
(2) At the time of the
determination by the court, the principal lacks the capacity to give or to
revoke a power of attorney.
(3) The revocation of the
attorney-in-fact’s authority is in the best interest of the principal or the
principal’s estate. . . .
(f) Compelling a third person to
honor the authority of an attorney-in-fact.”
            Under Probate Code §4542, “A
proceeding under this part is commenced by filing a petition stating facts
showing that the petition is authorized under this part, the grounds of the
petition, and, if known to the petitioner, the terms of the power of attorney.”
The court notes that the complaint
alleges standing under the Probate Code, but the complaint does not comply with
the requirements for commencing a petition under Probate Code §4500, et
seq.  In any event, plaintiff Rock
alleges a viable and operable POA wherein he is the attorney in fact and that
the documents, including a durable power of attorney entered into afterward,
are null and void due to Mathews’ incapacity and undue influence.  Further, the German POA states, in part:  Robert Mathews hereby authorize Norbert Rock
to act as my private agent to represent me with respect to all affairs
regarding my property, old-age or other pension, tax and other legal matters
vis-à-vis all courts, authorities, banking institutions, private persons, or
legal entities in any manner and without any exception at any time.”
The court finds that at the
pleading stage plaintiff has sufficiently alleged standing under the first,
second, and fourth causes of action.
As to the sixth cause of action for
elder abuse, “[s]pecial standing rules apply in certain circumstances for
actions under the Elder Abuse Act. . . . The Elder Abuse Act . . . authorizes
an action to be brought not only by the elder, but also by the elder’s
‘[personal] representative’ when the elder is alive but ‘lacks capacity
pursuant to section 812 of the Probate Code.” 
Tepper v. Wilkins (2017) 10 Cal. App. 5th 1198, 1204
(citing to Welf & Inst. Code §15657.6) (other citations omitted).  “Under those circumstances the elder’s
personal representative may demand return of property on the elder’s behalf
and, if unsuccessful, may bring an action for damages and other relief.  ‘[Personal] representative’ is defined as ‘a
person or entity that is either (1) a conservator, trustee, or other
representative of the estate of an elder or (2) an attorney-in-fact of an elder
who acts within the power of attorney.’” Id. (citing to §15610.30).  In the opposition, plaintiff contends that
although not alleged, he is a beneficiary in Mathews’ will or as a successor in
interest or fiduciary for his mother under the will, and thus, he is an
“interested person.” 
The court finds that plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged standing under the sixth cause of action as he alleges he
is the attorney-in-fact, which falls under the definition of “personal
representative.” 
 
First, second, and fourth causes of
action
Defendant argues that the first and
second causes of action are duplicative and derivative of the sixth cause of
action for elder abuse.  Defendant also
contends that the fourth cause of action is duplicative of the third cause of
action.
Whether a cause of action is
duplicative of another cause of action is not a ground for judgment on the
pleadings.  Also, the sixth cause of
action is statutory and involves different elements than the first and second
causes of action.  
The motion is DENIED as to the first,
second, and fourth causes of action.
 
Sixth cause of action for elder
financial abuse
Financial elder abuse occurs when a
person takes the property of an elder for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud or by undue influence.  Welf.
& Inst. Code §15610.30(a).  A person
is deemed to have taken the property when he or she has deprived an elder of
any property right.  Welf. & Inst.
Code §15610.30(c).  Although bad faith or
intent to defraud is no longer required, wrongful use of property must still be
alleged.  Stebley v. Litton Loan
Servicing, LLP (2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 522, 527-28.  “A person . . . shall be deemed to have taken
. . . property for a wrongful use if . . . the person . . . takes . . . the
property and the person . . . knew or should have known that this conduct is
likely to be harmful to the elder . . . .” Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.30(b).
To establish financial elder abuse,
the plaintiff must allege that the defendant took or retained the plaintiff's
property; that the plaintiff was 65 years of age or older at the time of the conduct;
that the defendant took or retained the property for a wrongful use or with the
intent to defraud; that the plaintiff was harmed; and that the defendant's
conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's harm.  See CACI §3100.  Further, statutory claims require specificity
in pleading.
As stated above, plaintiffs allege
that Mathews’ pension payments from Germany have been routed to Palm Consulting
Services and Amity Care.  Complaint, ¶22.  Defendants took advantage of Mathews as a
result of his disabled state.  Id., ¶51.  Defendants profited thereby at plaintiff’s
disadvantage.  Id., ¶52.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts to show that defendant took or retained property
for a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud and that Mathews was harmed,
and that defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.
Thus, the motion is GRANTED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action.
ORDER
            The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is DENIED as to the first, second, and fourth causes of action and
GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.