  Case Number:  21STCV46361    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Rapore, et al. v. Regents of
the University of California



Case No.:


21STCV46361


Complaint Filed:


12-20-21         




Hearing Date:


10-31-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGEMENT                                 
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiffs Jonathan Rapore
and Deborah Rapore
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendants Thalia M.
Nguyen, M.D.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiffs
Jonathan Rapore and Deborah Rapores’ Motion to Tax Costs is DENIED.   Plaintiff
did not provide any authority or persuasive argument as to why the Court should
find Defendant’s costs to be unreasonable, or that the 998 offer was made in
bad faith. All claimed costs by Defendant are warranted by statute and are reasonable.

 
            Plaintiffs’
Objections are OVERRULED. 
 
REASONING
 
(b) Not less
than 10 days prior to commencement of trial . . ., any party may serve an offer
in writing upon any other party to the action to allow judgment to be taken or
an award to be entered in accordance with the terms and conditions stated at
that time. The written offer shall include a statement of the offer, containing
the terms and conditions of the judgment or award, and a provision that allows
the accepting party to indicate acceptance of the offer by signing a statement
that the offer is accepted. Any acceptance of the offer, whether made on the
document containing the offer or on a separate document of acceptance, shall be
in writing and shall be signed by counsel for the accepting party or, if not
represented by counsel, by the accepting party. . . .
 
(2) If the offer
is not accepted prior to trial or arbitration or within 30 days after it is
made, whichever occurs first, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given
in evidence upon the trial or arbitration.


(Code Civ.
Proc., § 998, subd. (b).)
 
If an offer made
by a defendant is not accepted and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more
favorable judgment or award, the plaintiff shall not recover his or her
postoffer costs and shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
In addition, in any action or proceeding other than an eminent domain action,
the court or arbitrator, in its discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a
reasonable sum to cover postoffer costs of the services of expert
witnesses, who are not regular employees of any party, actually incurred and
reasonably necessary in either, or both, preparation for trial or arbitration,
or during trial or arbitration, of the case by the defendant.


(Code Civ.
Proc., § 998, subd. (c)(1).)
 
            Plaintiffs Jonathan Rapore and Deborah Rapore
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) move to tax or strike $28,162 from Defendant Thalia
M. Nguyen, M.D.’s (“Nguyen”) Memorandum of Costs including the following costs:
 
1.    
$500 in filing fees; 
2.    
$75 in jury fees; 
3.    
$3,837 in deposition fees; 
4.    
$223 for service of process fees; 
5.    
$23,383 in witness fees; and 
6.    
$144 for court filing courtesy copies . 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendant Thalia M. Nguyen, M.D.
(“Nguyen”) 998 offer was made in bad faith because at the time the offer was
made the Plaintiffs “did not have the benefit of defendant’s expert
declarations nor did they have the benefit of discovery responses, deposition
testimony, and other discovery.” (Motion, p. 6:22–23.) Plaintiffs argue that
due to the timing of the 998 offer being served alongside Nguyen’s Answer to
the Complaint, the 998 offer was a “tactic for intimidation and solely in the
hope of receiving section 998 costs.” (Id., pp 6:24–7:13.)  Plaintiffs offer no evidence of bad faith or
authority to support their argument regarding the timing of the 998 offer
leading to a finding of bad faith. 
 
            The Court does not find the Plaintiffs argument of a bad
faith 998 offer persuasive. “Where the defendant obtains a judgment more
favorable than its offer, the judgment is prima facie evidence that the [998] offer
was reasonable.” (Hartline v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 458, 471.) Here, Nguyen undisputably received a more favorable
judgment in her successful motion for summary judgment on 5-31-24. (See 5-31-24
Minute Order.) Thus, due to the successful motion for summary judgment the 998
offer was reasonable. 
 
            The burden shifts to the Plaintiffs to show that the 998
offer was made in bad faith or as a “token”. (See Santantonio v.
Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 116 [“It is the
general rule that where a party shows a prima facie entitlement to costs, the
burden is on an objector to prove the costs should be disallowed.”].)
 
            “[M]ere statements in the points and authorities
accompanying its notice of motion to strike cost bill and the declaration of .
. . counsel are insufficient to rebut the prima facie showing.” (Rappenecker
v. Sea-Land Service, Inc. (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 256, 265.) “Whether an offer
to compromise is made in good faith, however, cannot be measured by the amount
of claimed damages or a party's subjective belief in the case's value.” (Essex
Ins. Co. v. Heck (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1530.) “[A] modest settlement
offer’ may be in good faith if it is believed the defendant has a significant
likelihood of prevailing at trial.” (Id., at p. 1529.) Merely Stating
that a party made a “unrealistic and unreasonable” 998 offer “solely in order
to gain a strategic advantage,” without pointing to anything “in the record to
support the contention factually,” will not create a bad faith 998 offer. (Jones
v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.)
 
            Plaintiffs provide no arguments or evidence of the 998
offer being made in bad faith other than conclusory statements about the timing
of the offer. Nguyen shows that the 998 offer was made with an accompanying
Cover Letter from Ngyuen’s counsel explaining to Plaintiffs that Nguyen did not
issue the order for olanzapine administered to Plaintiff Jonathan Rapore, but
that the olanzapine was authorized by Dr. El-Okdi and given under his
supervision. (Oppo., p. 2:10–15; Ex. B.) 
Nguyen’s motion for Summary judgment was granted based on the same
defense as included in the 998 offer Cover Letter, and thus there is no showing
of bad faith by Nguyen. Nguyen clearly communicated her defense within the
offer, and the evidence was available to all parties at the early stages of the
litigation to show Nguyen did not issue the order for olanzapine.  Thus, Plaintiffs argument that the 998 offer
was made with bad faith is without merit.
            
            Plaintiffs argue that Nguyen’s $500 filing fee associated
with the motion for summary judgment filing is not allowed since Nguyen also
claims that she is exempt from filing fees under Government Code § 6103.  Nguyen argues that did not pay the filing fee
for answering the complaint as that was an exempt fee under § 6103, but
Nguyen was required to pay a fee for filing the moton for summary judgement, a
motion that ultimately was successful. “[T]he prevailing party is entitled to
all of his costs unless another statute provides otherwise. [Citation.] Absent
such statutory authority, the court has no discretion to deny costs to the
prevailing party.” (Baker-Hoey v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003)
111 Cal.App.4th 592, 597; see also Code Civ Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) Nguyen
was the prevailing party on the motion for summary judgment and thus the court
has no discretion to deny the filing fees for the motion allowed under CCP §
1033.5(a)(1). (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Expert fees are not allowed as a
matter of right, but provide no authority or sound argument for why the Court
should not allow Nguyen’s expert witness fees.  CCP § 998(c)(1) states, if an offer made by
the defendant is not accepted and defendant obtains a more favorable judgment,
as the case here, the Court, “may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum
to cover postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are not
regular employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary in
either, or both, preparation for trial . . ., or during trial . . ., of the
case by the defendant.” Code Civ. Proc., § 998, subd. (c)(1).) Nguyen’s experts
provided direct support for Nguyen’s defense, and thus are recoverable under
CCP § 998(c)(1).
 
            Plaintiffs argue the deposition fees are not recoverable
because the deposition notice did not state it was noticed by Nguyen alone.  CCP § 1033.5(3)(A) provides that recoverable
costs include costs for “[t]aking, video recording, and transcribing necessary
depositions, including an original and one copy of those taken by the claimant
and one copy of depositions taken by the party against whom costs are allowed.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (3)(A).) Plaintiffs argument is without
merit. Nguyen’s counsel noticed the depositions and Nguyen’s defense, as
co-defendant with the other two defendants, is intertwined with the entire
defense. Nguyen argues Nguyen’s “experts relied upon those deposition
transcripts in rendering their expert opinions, and Dr. Nguyen’s successful
summary judgment motion included deposition testimony from several witnesses in
this action.” (Oppo., p. 5.) The Court agrees with Nguyen. The deposition costs
are allowed under CCP § 1033.5(3)(A).
  
            Plaintiffs argue that jury fees, service of process fees,
and court filing courtesy copy fees are not allowable, but once again
Plaintiffs provide no authority for this argument. Thus, the Court does not
find this argument persuasive.
 
            Plaintiffs argue that Nguyen calculated her fees incorrectly,
and that Nguyen is not entitled to any fees unless she can establish that the
cost incurred was solely for her benefit. Plaintiffs again do not provide any
authority for this argument. Nguyen argues that dividing the fees by two
between herself and co-defendant Dr. El-Okdi is a “appropriate, reasonable, and
an accurate method by which to calculate the costs recoverable by Dr. Nguyen.”
(Oppo., p. 8:10–27.) The Court agrees, and finds this method of calculation
reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, without any authority provided
otherwise by the Plaintiffs, the Court cannot find the method of calculation
unreasonable.
 
 
            Plaintiffs’ Motion to Tax Costs is DENIED. 

 