 Case Number:  22TRCV01630    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 21, 2025¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01630
 
CASE NAME:                        Tiana Brown v. ERMC Aviation, LLC, et al.  
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, ERMC Aviation, Inc. and Maria Mendoza 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Tiana Brown
¿¿ ¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       May 12, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion for Summary
Judgement, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                   (1) DENIED MSA is GRANTED as to the claim of retaliation for requesting
pregnancy leave. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
December 29, 2022, Plaintiff, Tiana Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, ERMC Aviation, LLC, Maria Mendoza, and DOES 1 through 100.
The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) Racial
Discrimination; (2) Racial Harassment; (3) Retaliation for Complaints of Racial
Discrimination and Harassment; (4) 
Pregnancy Discrimination; (5) Retaliation for Request for Pregnancy
Leave; (6) Failure to Provide Pregnancy Accommodation; (7) Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process; (8) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment;
(9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Now,
Defendants, ERMC Aviation, Inc. and Maria Mendoza (collectively, “Defendants”)
file a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
to all nine causes of action as well as Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. 
 
The
evidence submitted to the Court shows that Plaintiff was a newly hired,
probationary employee during the relevant period of time.  She hired in August of 2022 and the key
events supporting her claims of discrimination, retaliation and failure to
accommodate occurred in September of 2022, during her 90-day probationary
period.  Defendants assert they suspended
and then fired Plaintiff for abandoning her post at the airport security
screening station at LAX terminal 3 on September 15, 2022, while Plaintiff
asserts the stated reason was a pretext because, she claims, a co-worker made
racist or racially-motivated comments to her on September 12 and 15, 2022, and
when she reported the comments to HR, HR retaliated against her for complaining
and destroyed evidence that would have shown the termination was
pretextual.  Plaintiff also asserts
pregnancy discrimination and retaliation because on September 16, the day after
she left her post and clocked out during her work shift, she went to a
previously scheduled obstetrician appointment that Defendants somehow failed to
accommodate, even though she was given that day off.  Also on September 16, Defendant notified Plaintiff
by text that she was being suspended pending an investigation of the claimed abandonment
or her assigned post in Terminal 3.   At the conclusion of the investigation, one
Plaintiff claims was incomplete, Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s probationary
employment as of October 6, 2022.  
 
Ms.
Mendoza denies making racist or racially-motivated comments to Plaintiff and no
witness corroborates either version of what was allegedly said on September 12
or 15, 2022.  
 
B.    Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 13, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication.  The Court approved a stipulation to continue
the hearing on the MSJ to allow discovery pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c(h).  On January 7, 2025,
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On January 15, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections in Support of their
Motion for Summary Judgment 
Sustain: n/a
Overrule: 38-40.
 
            The
hearsay rule does not bar these statements because Defendant Mendoza is a party
to this action, and pursuant to California Evidence Code section 1220, “[e]vidence
of a statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered
against the declarant in an action to which he is a party in either his
individual or representative capacity, regardless of whether the statement was
made in his individual or representative capacity.”  There is a triable issue of fact as to
whether Mendoza did or did not act in a supervisory capacity on September 15,
2022.  
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections to Defendants’ Moving
Evidence: 
Sustain: 1, 2
Overrule: n/a
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiff’s
Opposition Evidence: 
Sustain: 1-2, 5-6.
Overrule: 3, 4.
 
            The Court
does not find that Plaintiff’s declaration is a sham declaration as to the
failure-to-accommodate cause of action because in the same deposition cited to
by Defendants, Plaintiff stated “for accommodation, it was if they could
accommodate me for that day for my doctor’s appointment with my note.”
(Plaintiff’s depo. at 127:21-25.)   The jury will need to assess the plaintiff’s
credibility as to the statements in her deposition at pp. 127-128 where she “clarified”
an earlier answer at p. 100, but her “clarified” testimony was reiterated, not
contradicted, in her MSJ declaration.   
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
                         
i.         
Racial Discrimination
Government Code §12940
provides that it is unlawful for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a
person or to discharge a person from employment, or to discriminate against the
person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on
the basis of race. (Gov. Code § 12940(a).) To establish a claim for
discrimination in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must generally prove that
(1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) that he or she was
qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in
the position he or she held; (3) that he or she suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4)
some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive. (See Guz v.
Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)   
1.     Adverse
Employment Action 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
racial discrimination claim is based solely on hearsay comments allegedly made
by Defendant, Maria Mendoza (“Mendoza”). (Defendants’ UMF Nos. 38-40.) As noted, the
Court overruled Defendants’ moving objections as to these statements on the
grounds that they are admissible under California Evidence Code section 1220. 
 
Defendants
cite to the evidence that on September 15, 2022, Plaintiff spoke to Franco
twice, once on the phone and a second time at the ERMC office. (Defendants’ UMF
No. 43.) The first time he spoke with Plaintiff on the phone, he testified that
Plaintiff told him that she did not want to work screening post, sliding door,
that Maria was stationing her there. (Baca Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, Franco Depo. at
37:1-38:16.) Later, at the ERMC office, Franco states he asked Plaintiff to
write a statement about leaving her post, she refused, and “stormed off,”
leaving the office.” (Baca Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, Franco Depo. at 35:24-46:7.) At
Franco’s deposition, he was asked if Plaintiff “ever complain[ed] to [him]
about Maria Mendoza?” (Baca Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, Franco Depo. at 34:15-23.) Franco
answered: “Not that I recall.” (Baca Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 5, Franco Depo. at 34:17.)
 In contrast, Plaintiff
provided her own testimony that Defendant Mendoza made racially discriminatory
comments toward her in the workplace. (Plaintiff’s SSAMF Nos. 36-40, 42.)
Plaintiff alleges that these comments and actions took place on September 15,
2022 and September 12, 2022. (Plaintiff’s SSAMF Nos. 36-40, 42.) Plaintiff also
provided testimony that she complained to Mendoza about her comment
(Plaintiff’s SSAMF No. 41), complained to Franco about Mendoza’s comments
(Plaintiff’s SSAMF No. 42), as well as called Essoufi to complain about
Mendoza’s comments. (Plaintiff’s SSAMF Nos. 44.) The alleged adverse
employment action in Plaintiff’s complaint is that “Defendants
terminated Plaintiff’s employment based on Plaintiff’s African-American race,
in retaliation for Plaintiff’s complaints of racial discrimination and
harassment…” (Complaint, ¶ 16.) 
 
The
conflicts in these differing versions of what occurred create triable issues of
fact that a jury will need to resolve.  The
testimony of a single witness, who the jury believes, is sufficient to prove a
fact, even if other witnesses testify differently.
 
2.    
Legitimate Business
Reason
As the Supreme Court explained in¿Guz¿v.
Bechtel Nat. Omc, (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 317, “‘legitimate’ reasons
[citation] … are reasons that are¿facially unrelated to prohibited bias,¿and
which, if true, would thus preclude a finding¿of discrimination.¿
[Citations.]”¿(See¿Guz¿v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.¿(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
358¿(italics in original and footnote omitted).) One such example is
unsatisfactory performance.¿ (See, e.g.,¿Trop v. Sony Pictures Entm’t. Inc.¿(2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1149 [pregnant woman terminated due to poor job
performance].)¿“While the objective soundness of an employer’s proffered
reasons supports their credibility . . .¿the ultimate issue is simply whether
the employer acted with¿a motive to discriminate illegally.”¿ (Guz,
supra,¿24 Cal.4th at¿358¿(italics in original).)¿The employer’s “reasons need
not necessarily have been wise or correct.”¿(Id.)¿In other words, as
long as the employer honestly believed in the facially unrelated reason, it is
irrelevant whether the employer’s reason is trivial (see¿Slatkin¿v. Univ. of
Redlands¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1147, 1157 [professor’s tenure denied based
on “academic politics”]), or even completely untrue (King v. United Parcel
Service, Inc.¿(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 433 [driver accused of falsifying
timecard]).¿ 
If¿the¿employer¿meets its burden,¿the burden then
shifts to the employee to¿show that the defendant’s¿legitimate reason is merely
pretext. (See¿Guz¿v. Bechtel Nat. Inc., supra,¿24 Cal.4th¿at¿356.)
“Pretext may be inferred from the timing of the discharge decision, the
identity of the decision-maker, or by the discharged employee's job performance
before termination.” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc.¿(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
215, 224.) “Pretext may [also] be demonstrated by showing that the proffered
reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually motivate the
discharge, or¿the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge.” (Id.)¿
The
adverse employment action complained of in Plaintiff’s complaint is that she
was terminated based on her “African-American race, in retaliation for
Plaintiff’s complaints of racial discrimination and harassment…” (Complaint, ¶
16.) However, Defendants argue that Plaintiff was not terminated by Mendoza,
because was not her supervisor. (Defendants’ UMF No. 18.) Instead, Defendants
explain that Plaintiff was terminated by Azelarabe Essoufi (“Essoufi”) for
allegedly having abandoned her post on September 15, 2022. (Defendants’ UMF No.
31.) The Court’s reading of Essoufi’s deposition testimony states that
“abandoning a post without authorization from management or the supervisor, is
guarded so serious that it could be a cause for termination.” (Essoufi Decl.,
at 41: 21-24.)  However, Plaintiff has
provided testimony that she did not abandon her post. In fact, Plaintiff’s
testimony contradicts that of Franco’s. Plaintiff states that she called Luis
to tell him about the racial comment Mendoza made to her. (Plaintiff Depo. at
52:1-25.) Plaintiff states Franco informed her that she was able to leave and
asked her to come to the HR office. (Plaintiff Depo. at 52:1-25.) She also
stated Franco told her to clock out and to get her things. (Plaintiff Depo. at
52:1-25.)  Plaintiff’s testimony as to why
she left (not “abandoned”) her post on September 15 is different from the
testimony of others, and plaintiff’s testimony as to who told her to cover the
screening post at Terminal 3 differs from Defendant’s evidence.  There is a disputed issue of fact as to
whether Mendoza acted in a supervisory capacity or not in telling Plaintiff to
cover the post at Terminal 3 on the day in question.  
 
As
such, the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised triable issues of material fact
and the Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
 
                       
ii.         
Racial Harassment 
The Fair Employment and
Housing Act prohibition on harassment states: “It is an unlawful employment
practice. . . .[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment agency,
apprenticeship training program or any training program leading to employment,
any other person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or military veteran status, to harass an employee, an
applicant, an unpaid intern or volunteer, or person providing services pursuant
to a contract.” (Govt. Code, § 12940(j)(1).)  
Defendants assert that even
assuming Mendoza made the unfavorable comments to Plaintiff, two instances of these
comments on September 12, 2022 and September 15, 2022 are not severe or
pervasive enough to establish a hostile work environment. Of course, even a
single incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a hostile work
environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)¿ Where the evidence establishes
that Plaintiff did not endure conduct "so severe and pervasive as to alter
the conditions of [her] employment," summary judgement is appropriate. (McCoy
v. Pacific Maritime Association (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 283,
294.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that Mendoza’s comments unreasonably interfered with her work
performance and created an intimidating, hostile, and offensive working
environment.  Plaintiff has provided her
own testimony in deposition at page 86 and in her MSJ declaration that Luis
told her to clock out and come to his office, not that she abandoned her
post.  The Court finds that if
Plaintiff’s testimony is believed, and that if Mendoza’s comments were a
motivating reason for Plaintiff to have called Luis and leave her post, then
the jury could determine that the stated reason for plaintiff’s termination
just six weeks into her employment was a pretext.  Thus, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of
material fact and the MSJ and MSA as to this cause of action is DENIED. 
                     
iii.         
Retaliation for
Complaint of Racial Discrimination and Harassment 
 
To
establish retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A retaliation claim can be brought by an
employee who has complained of conduct reasonably believed to be
discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.) “[A]lthough an adverse employment action must
materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment to be
actionable, the determination of whether a particular action or course of
conduct rises to the level of actionable conduct should take into account the
unique circumstances of the affected employee as well as the workplace context
of the claim.” (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at 1052.)   
 
Again,
the Court notes that the Parties present differing evidence as to why Plaintiff
was terminated. The Court’s role on summery judgment is not to place more or
less weight on competing testimony. That is a task for the trier of fact. The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s testimony that she did not abandon her post, but
was instead asked to leave by Franco, raises a triable issue of fact as to why
she was terminated. Thus, the MSJ and MSA as to this cause of action is denied.
 
                      
iv.         
Pregnancy
Discrimination 
Pregnancy
discrimination is a form of sex discrimination and includes discrimination
because of pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding, and any medical conditions
related thereto. (Spaziano v. Lucky Stores, Inc.¿(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th
106, 109-110; Gov’t Code, § 12926 subd. (r); see also 2 CCR § 11039(a)(E),
(J).). Pregnancy discrimination is also a form of disability discrimination if
the plaintiff was disabled by her pregnancy or was perceived as such. (Faust
v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864,
886.)  A prima facie case for discrimination consists of (1) the
plaintiff’s membership in a protected class; (2) the plaintiff being qualified
for the position sought, or having performed competently in the position held;
(3) an adverse employment action against the plaintiff (e.g., termination,
demotion, or denial of employment); and (4) some other circumstance that
suggests discriminatory motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.¿(2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) 
            The
timing of Plaintiff’s doctor’s appointment on August 16 is asserted by
Plaintiff as raising the inference that her suspension on the same day was
motivated by pregnancy discrimination.  Further,
there is a disputed issue of fact as to whether plaintiff was given that day
off because she was notified of being suspended for failing to show and failing
to call in despite being approved, per her testimony, for a pregnancy-related
day off to attend the medical appointment. 
The Court thus denies the MSA as to this cause of action. 
                       
v.         
Retaliation for Request
for Pregnancy Leave 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff is unable to establish that she ever reported Mendoza’s
comments to Franco. (Defendants’ UMF No. 43.) Plaintiff’s complaint states that
she “made complaints to Defendants about the…racial discrimination and
harassment on or about September 12, 2022 and September 15, 2022. (Complaint, ¶
8.) Further, Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that “Defendants retaliated against
and harassed [her] based on her complaints of racial discrimination and
harassment.” (Complaint, ¶ 9.) 
 
To
establish retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A retaliation claim can be brought by an
employee who has complained of conduct reasonably believed to be
discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.) “[A]lthough an adverse employment action must
materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment to be
actionable, the determination of whether a particular action or course of
conduct rises to the level of actionable conduct should take into account the
unique circumstances of the affected employee as well as the workplace context
of the claim.” (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at 1052.)   
            
The
plaintiff admits she did not request pregnancy leave, but rather that she
requested one day off to attend a doctor’s appointment, and that request was
granted.  The Court finds no triable
issue of fact bearing on the pregnancy retaliation cause of action and grants
the MSA as to that claim.
 
 
                      
vi.         
Failure to Provide
Pregnancy Accommodation 
 
To
state a prima facie case for failure to accommodate claim under FEHA, Plaintiff
must show: (1) that she had a disability covered by FEHA; (2) ERMC knew about
her alleged disability; (3) she was able to perform her essential job
functions; and (4) ERMC denied her a reasonable accommodation. (Gov. Code §§
12926.1, 12940(m).) 
 
Plaintiff
has not shown evidence that she was denied this accommodation. Even in her
supporting declaration, Plaintiff declared that “[a]s a courtesy, [she] gave
Luis Franco a heads-up around two weeks before [her] September 16th appointment
with Dr. Hull. Franco [told] her, “That’s fine – just remind me the day
before.” [She] also [states that she] told Azul Essoufi about [her] upcoming
September 16th appointment…[and] reminded Franco the day before [her]
appointment, and [he] told [her] “Okay.” 

 
Although
Defendants’ Essoufi testified that the “no call-no show” was not the reason she
was terminated, Plaintiff nonetheless provides evidence that stated despite her
informing the individuals of her appointment, Essoufi sent her a text message
that read: “Hi Tiana, you were No call no show today. You are now being
suspended pending investigation.” (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶ C.) This raises a
disputed issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff was disciplined for taking a
medical appointment on August 16, despite being told that she was approved to
take that day off for the pregnancy-related appointment.   As
such, for the same reasons above, the Court DENIES the Motion for Summary
Judgment and the MSA as to this cause of action.
 
                    
vii.         
Failure to Engage in
the Interactive Process 
 
For
the same reasons above, the Court DENIES the MSA.
 
                  
viii.         
Failure to Prevent
Discrimination and Harassment 
 
For
the same reasons above, the Court DENIES the MSA.
 
                      
ix.         
Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress
 
For
the same reasons above, the Court DENIES the MSA.  .
 
                       
x.         
Punitive Damages
 
For
the same reasons above, the Court DENIES the MSA.
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED except it is GRANTED as to the claim of retaliation for
requesting pregnancy leave. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿ 