 Case Number:  21STCV40844    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial Date, filed by Defendants  Classic Distributing and Beverage Group, Inc., and Michael Wayne Smith.   Tentative The motion is granted. Background This action stems from an automobile  collision that occurred on December 5, 2019. (Complaint, ¶ GN-1.) Dagoberto  Cardenas (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Michael Wayne Smith driving a vehicle owned  by Classic Distributing and Beverage Group, Inc., collided with his vehicle.  (Id.) Plaintiff subsequently filed suit on November 4, 2021. Defendants Classic  Distributing and Beverage Group, Inc., and Michael Wayne Smith (collectively  “Defendants”) filed a Motion to Continue Trial on January 3, 2024. No  opposition has been filed. Legal Standard Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the  court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make  them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance  should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,  Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide  latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of  continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   Each request for a continuance must be  considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of  good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an essential lay  or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party because of  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial counsel  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but  only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in  the interests of justice;   (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The  new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to  conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's  involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to obtain  essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent  efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in  the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)     California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets  forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether  good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such  as:   “(1) The proximity of the trial date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative means to  address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses  will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential  trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a  continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in  another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice are  best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant  to the fair determination of the motion or application.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)  Discussion Defendant contends that there is good cause for a continuance of trial  as the parties need time to participate in mediation and complete discovery. (Volk  Decl., ¶ 10.) The parties filed a stipulation on December 18, 2023, but it was  rejected by the Court because too many stipulations for continuance had already  been approved. (Id. ¶¶ 7 & 8.) Trial date is currently set for May 6, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.) Defense counsel states that she recently  became the handling attorney on December 4, 2023, and needs more time to  evaluate and review the case. (Id., ¶ 6.) Defense counsel also lists the  necessary discovery that needs to be completed including revised subpoenas for  records, and attain the IME of Plaintiff report. (Id.¸¶¶ 10 & 11.) No opposition has been filed.   Accordingly, it appears that the requested continuance would not cause  any unfair prejudice to any party. The Court finds Defendant has shown good cause for a continuance due to  the need to complete discovery and possible mediate the case. Therefore,  Defendant’s Motion to Continue is GRANTED.  Conclusion The Motion to  Continue is GRANTED.  The trial date  is advanced and continued to November 4, 2024.  Final Status Conference and all deadlines are  reset based on the new trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 10/21/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Jury Trial is continued to 11/04/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse.  Moving Party is  ORDERED to give notice.  