 Case Number:  21STCV38259    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest filed by Nicholas
Turley.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Rodney Dowd ("Petitioner")
filed a petition against James River Insurance Company,
regarding an underinsured motorist arbitration on October 18, 2021. 
 
Petitioner filed the Motion to Substitute
on January 8, 2024. The Court has not received any opposition.
 
A prior motion to substitute was
denied, without prejudice, for procedural reasons.
 
Legal Standard
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other person has
a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).) 
The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Since the time
of the filing of the Petition, Petitioner has died. In light of his death, his uncle
Nicholas Turley, moves for an order permitting him substitution as the
Successor in Interest to Petitioner’s causes of action. 
On January 8,
2024, Petitioner filed this motion to substitute. 
The Declaration
of Nick Turley includes:
(1) the decedent’s name, Rodney Dowd;
 (2) the date and
place of decedent’s death, March 6, 2022 n Los Angeles, CA;
(3) that “No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate”; 
(4)  that Mr. Dowd
is the decedent’s successor in interest; 
(5) that “No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding”; and 
(6) Mr. Dowd declares these statements are true under
penalty of perjury 
Attached to the
motion is Petitioner’s death certificate. 
Therefore, the
Court GRANTS Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Petitioner’s
motion to substitute Nicholas Turley in place of deceased Petitioner.
Moving party is ORDERED
to give notice.
 