 Case Number:  22STCV18686    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission
Tentative
The Court DENIES as moot Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to provide a further response to RFA No. 24.
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
provide a further response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, subpart (d), as it
relates to RFA Nos. 3, 11, 25, and 26.
The Court DENIES as moot the remainder of Defendant’s motion
to compel Plaintiff to provide a further response to Form Interrogatory No.
17.1.
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions on both motions.
Background
On
June 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Brandon Dalton (“Plaintiff”) and Terrell Lee filed a
complaint against Defendants Ricardo Reta, Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1 through 100, alleging claims for
personal injuries arising out of an alleged vehicle accident on July 5, 2020.
 
On
July 25, 2022, Defendant County of Los Angeles, erroneously sued as Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department (“Defendant”), filed an answer to the
complaint.  
 
On
June 20, 2023, Defendant Reta filed an answer to the complaint.
 
On August 3, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with discovery,
including Requests for Admission (Set One) and Form Interrogatories (Set Two).  (Whitelaw Decls., ¶ 3.)  After receiving a brief extension, Plaintiff
served responses on September 12.  (Id.,
¶ 4.)  Defendant contended that the
responses were not code compliant; the parties exchanged meet-and-confer
correspondence and discussed scheduling an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC),
a possible extension of time to bring a motion to compel, and supplemental
responses, but no agreement was reached. 
(Id., ¶¶ 6-11.)
On November 13, 2023, Defendant filed the two motions that are
before the Court: a motion to compel further responses to Requests for
Admission (RFAs) No. 24 and a motion to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 (as it relates to RFAs Nos. 3, 11, 12, 25, and 26).  
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff served amended discovery
responses.
Plaintiff filed a combined opposition to the two motions on January
25, 2024.  Defendant filed replies on
January 29.
The Court conducted an IDC on February 6, 2024.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
“[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the trial court of
its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses … the trial court retains the authority to hear the
motion.”¿ (Id. at pp.
408-409.)¿ This rule gives
“an important incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely
fashion.”¿ (Id. at p.
408.)¿ If “the propounding
party [does not] take the motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue
of sanctions,” the trial court may “deny the motion to
compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just
impose sanctions.”¿ (Id. at p. 409.) “The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
Discussion
Motion to Compel Further Response to RFA No. 24
Based upon the briefing and the information received during
the IDC, the Court understands that Defendant concedes that the supplemental
response to RFA No. 24, served while the motions were pending, is code
complaint, or at least substantially so. 
The request to compel a further response to RFA No. 24 is therefore
denied as moot.
Motion to Compel Further Response to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1
Based upon the briefing and the information received during
the IDC, the Court understands that Defendant’s motion is now limited to Form
Interrogatory 17.1, subparts (b) and (d), as it relates to RFAs Nos. 3, 11, 25,
and 26.
The Court has reviewed the supplemental responses to Form
Interrogatory 17.1, subpart (b), and finds that they are code compliant.
The Court has reviewed the supplemental responses to Form
Interrogatory 17.1, subpart (d), and finds that the responses are not code
compliant.  The Court overrules all of
Plaintiff’s objections,
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion in part (as to
subpart (d)) and denies the remainder of the motion as moot.  
Sanctions
The Court grants Defendant’s request for sanctions.  The service of supplemental responses while
the motions were pending does not moot the request.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s conduct was
not substantially justified (including providing non-code compliant responses,
even after receiving an extension of time to respond, and then failing to agree
to an extension of time for the filing of the motion pending the scheduling and
completion of the IDC) and that the imposition of sanctions would not be
unjust.
The Court sets sanctions on each motion in the amount of $920,
calculated based on four hours of attorney time for each motion multiplied by
counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $230 per hour.  (Whitelaw Decls., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES as moot Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to provide a further response to RFA No. 24.
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
provide further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, subpart (d), as it
relates to RFA Nos. 3, 11, 25, and 26.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide to provide a further written,
verified, code-compliant response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, subpart (d),
as it relates to RFA Nos. 3, 11, 25, and 26, without objection, within 21 days
of notice of this ruling.
The Court DENIES as moot the remainder of Defendant’s motion
to compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to Form Interrogatory No.
17.1.
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions on both motions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff and counsel of record Shaun J.
Bauman, jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil
Discovery Act to Defendant in the total amount of $1,840 ($920 for each motion,
multiplied by two motions) within 21 days of notice of this ruling.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 