 Case Number:  BC629121    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  GARY PAYL O’CONNOR,Plaintiff, vs. BOOSZT INC., et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  BC629121 Hearing Date:  July 1, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION TO JOIN NECESSARY PARTYCross-Complainant’s motion to substitute Charles Hasbun as a Cross-Defendant is DENIED.The only remaining parties and claims in this matter are the FACX brought by Curtis against Gary Paul O’Connor.If Cross-Complainant wishes to pursue this matter, Cross-Complainant must file another motion to join a necessary party on or before July 15, 2024 showing that she has filed a formal creditor’s claim in the Probate matter. The creditor’s claim must be attached. Additionally, Cross-Complainant must attach filings, orders and the docket from the Probate matter showing either that her creditor’s claim is still pending or that it has been rejected and the date of any such rejection.The Court sets a nonappearance review date of July 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. If the motion is not scheduled, the Court will set a further date at that time.  PROCEDURAL HISTORYThe only remaining defendant in the FAXC is Gary Paul O’Connor.  The FAXC does not indicate whether Curtis named Gary Paul O’Connor in his individual capacity or in his capacity as trustee of the Money Market Retirement Trust or both. Curtis has indicated orally that she sued O’Connor in both  capacities. On September 29, 2023, Cross-Complainant Greta Curtis filed her first motion to add Charles Hasbun, administrator of the Gary Paul O’Connor Estate, as a Cross-Defendant.On November 29, 2023, the Court denied Curtis’s first motion to add Charles Hasbun as a Cross-Defendant as administrator of O’Connor’s estate on the grounds that Curtis had not filed a formal creditor’s claim against O’Connor’s personal representative or successor in interest.On April 26, 2024, Curtis filed a second motion to substitute Hasbun as personal representative for O’Connor.DISCUSSIONCross-Complainant Greta Curtis moves to substitute Charles Hasbun, Administrator of Decedent O’Connor’s estate, as a Cross-Defendant in this matter as O’Connor’s personal representative.An action or proceeding against a decedent may be continued against the decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest if (1) a formal creditor’s claim is first properly filed and rejected by the personal representative and (2) within 3 months after the notice of rejection is given, the plaintiff applies to the court in which the action is pending for an order to substitute the personal representative as a party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 377.40, 377.41; Prob. Code, section 9370.)  Here, as before, Curtis attaches a copy of O’Connor’s death certificate showing he passed away on August 28, 2022. (Curtis’ Exh. 1.) There is no dispute that Charles Hasbun, represented by Robert Brown, was named the administrator of O’Connor’s estate. Curtis further provides copies of the docket for the probate case in the Orange County Superior Court concerning O’Connor’s estate. (Motion, Exh. 2.) However, as before, there is no evidence that Curtis made a formal creditor’s claim and the claim was rejected as required under Prob. Code, section 9370.The motion is denied.DATED: July 1, 2024 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 