 Case Number:  23VECV04042    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04042 ANZHELA HONCHARENKO, AN IND... vs ALEK
ZEVEN 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants Alek Zeven and dba
Zeven Law Firm’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is DENIED.  Defendants to respond to the First Amended
Complaint within 30 days.
Defendants
Alek Zeven and dba Zeven Law Firm’s Request for Judicial Notice is
GRANTED.  
Introduction

Defendants
Alek Zeven and dba Zeven Law Firm (Defendant) moved to compel arbitration and
stay Plaintiff Anzhela Honcharenko’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).
Discussion  
Defendant
argued that Plaintiff should be compelled to arbitration and the action be
stayed based upon the Retainer Agreement’s arbitration provision which states: “Client
agrees that all disputes between attorney and client, including costs, fees,
quality of service, claims of negligence, malpractice, and or fraud shall be
submitted to binding arbitration in accordance with section 1280, et sec.
California Code of Civil Procedure and said parties further agree to use the
arbitration services of the Los Angeles County Bar Association, or if
unavailable, or unwilling, JAMS, and in so agreeing client waives their right
to a trial by judge or jury, as well as rights to appeal.”
Before
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to oppose the motion, Defendant must initially
prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement
and that the dispute is covered by the agreement (i.e., arbitrability).  (Valsan Partners Ltd. Partnership v. Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809, 817.)  Defendant argued that arbitrability of the
claims is a question for the arbitrator and not the court due to the
arbitration agreement’s reference to the rules of the American Arbitration
Association (AAA) (i.e., a delegation clause is included in the arbitration
agreement).  Defendant asserted that the
Commercial Arbitration Rules apply and require the arbitrator to determine
arbitrability.  However, a plain reading
of the arbitration agreement showed that no reference to AAA rules is made,
instead the arbitration agreement referenced JAMS as being a choice of
arbitrator if the Los Angeles County Bar Association was unavailable or
unwilling to arbitrate the matter.  The
arbitration agreement stated:  
“Client
agrees that all disputes between attorney and client, including costs, fees,
quality of service, claims of negligence, malpractice, and or fraud shall be
submitted to binding arbitration in accordance with section 1280, et sec. [sic]
California Code of Civil Procedure and said parties further agree to use the
arbitration services of the Los Angeles County Bar Association, or if
unavailable, or unwilling, JAMS, and in so agreeing client waives their right
to a trial by judge or jury, as well as rights to appeal.”  [Bolding added.]
The
“Notice of Arbitration” showed that the references to the AAA rules did not
specify that the Commercial Arbitration Rules applied.  The notices of the arbitration agreement
stated:
“If
they do not reach such solution within a period of 60-days, then, upon notice
by either party to the other, all disputes, claims, questions, or differences
from the aforementioned agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with the
provisions of its Arbitration Rules.” 
[Bolding added.]
Again,
nothing in the Notice of Arbitration made any specific reference to or required
the use of the Commercial Arbitration Rules. 
As stated above, the it is upon the Court to determine arbitrability
(i.e., the scope of the arbitration agreement). 
(See also, First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938,
944; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 83-84; BG Group
PLC v. Republic of Argentina (2014) 572 U.S. 25, 34; Jackpot Harvesting, Inc.
v. Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 719, 730.)  The Court relinquishes its authority to
determine arbitrability when the parties “clearly and unmistakably” provide
otherwise.  (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v.
Jackson (2010) 561 US 63, 66, 68-69, fn. 1; B.D v. Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.
(2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 931, 957-958.)  
Where
the agreement does not “clearly and unmistakably” confer such power on the
arbitrator, courts—rather than the arbitrator—must determine such matters.  (First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan
(1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944; Hartley v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1249, 1251-1252; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771,
781-782.)  As reviewed above, there is no
clear and unmistakable provision in the arbitration agreement requiring the use
of AAA’s Commercial Rules.  Because there
is no clear and unmistakable delegation clause requiring use of AAA’s
Commercial Rules, the Court is authorized to determine arbitrability.  The Court does not find Defendant’s argument
as to AAA’s Commercial Rules to be persuasive.
Defendant
argued that the claims in the instant action fall within the scope of the
arbitration provision due to the broad language in the provision.  However, the scope of the retainer agreement
obligated Defendant to provide legal services and obligated Plaintiff to pay
for legal services.  The allegations in
the FAC do not involve disputes over the legal services provided or the amounts
to be paid by Plaintiff.  The allegations
in the FAC are for sexual assault and battery. 
Despite Plaintiff’s first cause of action (COA) being titled negligence,
the gravamen of the negligence claim is for unconsented sexual and threatening
comments and touching.  (FAC par.
28.)  The second through eighth COAs are
also based upon unconsented sexual and threatening comments and touching.  Nothing in the FAC’s eight COAs is there any
allegation that Defendant’s legal services were negligent or that malpractice
is being alleged or that a dispute over fees existed.  Without claims based upon the actual legal
services being negligent or the fees to be paid as being improper, there is
insufficient showing that Plaintiff’s claim “arose from or are related to” the
retainer agreement.  
The
allegations regarding the retainer agreement and the attorney-client
relationship provided background facts to support how and why Defendant had
access to Plaintiff.  The attorney-client
relationship is used in this action to provide context as to how the parties
were at the same time and place and/or that Plaintiff was lured into certain
locations by Defendant to effectuate the assault and battery.  The fact that the attorney-client
relationship brought the two parties together is insufficient to present a
nexus between the alleged assault and battery and the retainer agreement’s
arbitration provision.  Despite broad
wording, an arbitration clause does not apply to disputes unrelated to matters
covered in the contract.  (Lawrence v.
Walzer & Gabrielson (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1501, 1506.)  
There
are two arbitration provisions, one in the Attorney-Client Employment Agreement
and one in the Notice of Arbitration. 
Between the two of them, they confusingly identify AAA, LA County Bar,
ARC, Judicate West, JAMS, Orange County Bar Association as the arbitration
venue.  The wording varies between the
two.  Also, although this is a consumer
relationship between an attorney and a client, the reply mentions the AAA
Commercial Arbitration Rules.  
Because
the allegations in the FAC do not arise from or relate to the retainer
agreement, the Court finds that Defendant did not meet his initial burden to
show that the claims are within the scope of the retainer agreement or the
arbitration provision.  The burden did
not shift to Plaintiff.
The
court also notes that H.R. 4445, the “Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021” expresses a public policy against
arbitration of sexual assault cases.  H.R. 4445 amends the FAA by exempting
sexual harassment and assault claims from arbitration agreements. 
Finally, the retainer agreement specifically
mentions the types of claims that would be subject to arbitration (including costs, fees, quality of
service, claims of negligence, malpractice, and or fraud) and the separate
arbitration provision uses similar language ((such as, for example, any claim
brought by you for legal malpractice and/or legal fees and cost disagreements).  There is no provision or suggestion that a
claim for sexual assault would be included.
The
motion to compel arbitration and stay the action is DENIED.
IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.