  Case Number:  21STCV08174    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV08174




MOTION


(1)
  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
(2)
  Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Grandview Inn LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Matthew Jacobs 



 
MOTION
 
On March 1,
2021, Plaintiff Matthew Jacobs (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Grandview Inn LLC and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability.
Plaintiff alleges that he was injured on premises owned by Defendants and that
Defendants negligently hired, trained, supervised its employees. ¿ 
 
On August 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, substituting Krishan Patel
(“Patel”) as Doe 1.  
 
On March 19, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint to add a cause
of action for intentional tort (assault and battery) against Patel and to
allege gross negligence and a prayer for punitive damages against Defendant
Grandview Inn, LLC. 
 
On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
first amended complaint (“FAC”). 
 
Defendant
Grandview Inn LLC (“Defendant”) now demurs to the first cause of action for
Intentional Tort, arguing it is vague and ambiguous and does not state enough
facts to constitute a cause of action. Defendant separately moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that the responding party cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty,
the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading is
uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page and line
numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
According to the Declaration of Mayra
J. Marin, Defendant’s counsel, the parties spoke on the phone on April 23, 2024
regarding the instant demurrer, but were unable to resolve the objections.
(Mayra Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Demurrer
 
A. Respondeat Superior for Intentional Torts
 
            Defendant argues that the first
cause of action, alleging an intentional tort by Patel, is insufficient to
allege liability toward Defendant. 
An employer is
vicariously liable for an employee’s tort under the doctrine of respondeat
superior if the tort was committed within the scope of the employment.¿ (Montague
v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.)¿ An employee’s
willful or malicious tort may fall within the scope of employment even without
the employer’s authorization. (Flores v.
AutoZone West, Inc.¿(2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 373, 379.) Whether an employee's wrongful acts were
committed during the scope of employment is judged by a two-prong, alternative
“test”: (1)
whether the act was either required by the employer or “incidental” to
the employee's duties (“nexus” test); or (2) whether the employee's misconduct was
reasonably foreseeable by the employer (even if not “required” or
“incidental”).  (Montague, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
1521.)  
“The employee need not have intended to further the employer's
interest for the employer to be liable if there is a ‘causal nexus’ between the
intentional tort and the employee's work.” (Crouch v. Trinity
Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.¿(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1015.) This nexus is
not simply “but for” causation. (Lisa M. v.
Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital¿(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 298.) “The connection or causal nexus
required for respondeat superior liability is the tort must have been
engendered by or arise from the work. [Citation omitted.] The required
connection has been described as (1) ‘the incident leading to injury must be an
“outgrowth” of the employment’; (2) ‘the risk of tortious injury is “inherent
in the working environment” ’; (3) the risk of tortious injury is  ‘
“typical of or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has
undertaken” ’ or (4) ‘the tort was, in a general way, foreseeable from the
employee's duties.’” (Id. [Citations omitted].)  
 “[E]mployers have been held liable for the
wrongful and unauthorized acts of their employees where they were committed in
the course of a series of acts of the agent which were authorized by the
principal.” (Thorn v. City of Glendale (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1379,
1382.) 
 
Here,
the FAC alleges that Patel was Defendant’s Hotel Manager and punched Plaintiff
in the face. (FAC, p. 5.) Plaintiff further alleges, “Defendant
Grandview knew of Defendant Krishan Patel’s violent propensities while in the
course and scope of his employment with Defendant Grandview, who chose to do
nothing to counsel, discipline, punish him, or timely terminate his employment
and, in essence, condoned and ratified his outrageous behavior.” (Id.)
Plaintiff also alleges “[d]uring the deposition testimony of Defendant Patel,
the hotel manager/assailant admitted that he assaulted [Plaintiff] in the
garage of the Grandview Inn while in the course and scope of his employment.” (Id.,
p. 7.)
 
First, the Court does not find the allegations to be so uncertain such
that Defendant cannot reasonably respond. Second, the allegations contain
enough facts that Patel was working as the hotel manager when the incident
occurred, and that it occurred on hotel property. Plaintiff also sets forth
facts regarding foreseeability. (See FAC, 7:1–12.) Therefore, Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts to allege vicarious liability for Patel’s actions. As a
result, the demurrer is overruled. 
 
B. Gross Negligence
 
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff has asserted a cause of action for gross negligence. This appears to
be based on the attachment to the FAC which states: “Based on the
Defendant Patel’s admissions of the assault in sworn deposition testimony, Mr.
Jacobs has sufficient facts to allege an intentional cause of action against
Defendant Patel and to add allegations of gross negligence against Defendant
Grandview Inn, LLC and DOES 1 to 50.” (FAC, p. 5:12–15.)
 
 Gross negligence is
not a separate tort but a subset of negligence and thus it possesses the same
elements as a cause of action for negligence. (Joshi v. Fitness
International, LLC (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 814, 825; Continental Ins. Co.
v. American Protection Industries (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 322, 330.) However,
based on the FAC, Plaintiff has only labeled three causes of action: (1)
Intentional Tort; (2) General Negligence; and (3) Premises Liability.
Additionally, the attachment to the FAC summarizes factual allegations
applicable to all the causes of action, including negligence. Therefore, since
it appears on the face of the FAC that Plaintiff is only asserting three causes
of action, and Defendant did not demur to the negligence cause of action, the
Court finds the pleading is not uncertain. 
 
II.
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant also moves to strike page
3, paragraph 14(a)(2) and page 6, line 19 of the FAC, which pray for punitive
damages. 
 
A. Legal Standard
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).) Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings
which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or
orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) A motion to strike is used to address
defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter
but that are not grounds for a demurrer. (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital
(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only
when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the
plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’
[Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis
added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new
substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct
is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an
award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
When
seeking damages from an employer, an employer is not liable for punitive
damages arising from an employee’s actions pursuant to Civil Code section
3294(a) unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Civ. Code § 3294(b).) With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Id.)¿ 
 
B.
Discussion
 
Here, the
FAC alleges that the hotel is located across the alley from where Plaintiff
resides. (FAC, 6:20.) Plaintiff’s property manager, Ms. Glynn testified that “a
tenant in unit D of [Plaintiff’s] apartment complex complained to her about a
problem with an employee of the Grandview Inn (Defendant Patel) hanging out in
the garage all night smoking, drinking, being loud and obnoxious into the early
hours of the morning. The tenant advises her that he had called down from his
window and asked them to be quiet and Defendant Patel threatened to beat him
up, kill him and take him out.” (Id., 6:22–28.)
 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[a]s a result of this complaint in
2018, Ms. Glynn located the owner of Grandview Inn, Amish Desai. She told him
that the Grandview Inn’s employee hangs out in the garage until 4 in the
morning and is causing all kinds of havoc and causing her to lose her tenants.
The owner told her that he would take care of it and would let him go. He told
her there wouldn’t be a problem anymore. Ms. Glynn made it very clear to the
owner that Defendant Patel was threatening. She advised him that she was losing
residents because of the actions of this employee in the garage and that it was
unacceptable for that behavior to occur and it had to stop as he was
threatening her tenants.” (FAC, 7:1–8.) 
 
Plaintiff also alleges: “The second time Ms. Glynn spoke to the owner
of the Grandview Inn was shortly after the incident with Mr. Jacobs. She
reminded Mr. Desai that he told her he was going to get rid of the problematic
employee. The owner replied that the employee had nowhere else to go and he
wouldn’t do it again and to please give him another chance. He told her that
now he was absolutely gone. Once again, Defendant Patel remained employed as
the hotel manager. His conduct was ratified by the hotel owner.” (FAC.
7:13–18.) 
 
Based on these allegations, Plaintiff provides sufficient facts that
Defendant’s owner had advanced knowledge of Patel’s unfitness and danger to
others but continued to employ him with a conscious disregard. Defendant does
not provide authority that Mr. Desai’s designation as “owner” is not enough to
show he was a “managing agent or officer,” at least for purposes of a motion to
strike. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is denied. 
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
Furthermore, Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 