 Case Number:  22SMCV01225    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Ecure CA, LLC v. UHC of California, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV01225
MOTION:                 Defendants’
Motion to Continue Trial
HEARING DATE:   02/06/2024
 

Legal
Standard
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial, whether
contested or uncontested or stipulated by the parties, must make the request
for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex parte application . . . with
supporting declarations.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).) “The party
must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the
necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Ibid.)  “[E]ach request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.” (Cal Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c). “The court
may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring
the continuance.” (Ibid.) Good cause may be present where a party has
not been unable “to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts” or there has been a “significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) Good cause
may also be present where there is “[t]he substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c)(4).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of
non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether good cause for a
trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such as: (1) the
proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the
continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Analysis
 
Defendants seek to continue the
trial and related dates on the grounds that Optum was only recently named a
defendant in this matter.  As such, Optum
has the right to take discovery and pursue summary judgment, if warranted,
before trial, but under the current schedule would not have the opportunity to
do so.  
 
The parties had previously stipulated
to a trial continuance and no party file an opposition to this motion.  The earlier stipulation, however, was denied
because the parties requested a 90 day continuance, and the Court will have to
continue this matter until March 2025, which is far greater than the requested
continuance.  As to good cause, the Court
finds good cause for Optum to have a trial continuance.
 
Therefore, the motion is granted
and the matter will be continued to approximately March 2025.  The Court will discuss with the parties a
convenient date at the hearing.