 Case Number:  22SMCV00212    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Michelle
Farrell, et al. v. Lorraine Anderson, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00212
MOTION:                 Motion
to Bifurcate
HEARING DATE:   February 6,
2024
 

Background
            
            Plaintiff
Michelle Farrell leased property from Defendant Henry Darshad, who is now
deceased, pursuant to a valid written lease-to-own agreement.  Plaintiff Farrell alleges Defendant Darshad
knowingly and maliciously filed and maintained baseless unlawful detainer
actions against Farrell, alleging that she was a squatter.  Defendant Darshad died while the UD actions
were pending. Plaintiff Farrell ultimately obtained a favorable judgment in the
UD actions.  Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendant Darshad assaulted and battered her during her tenancy, made
derogatory and threatening statements to her and forced her to wear
hijabs.  Plaintiff alleges Darshad also
locked her out of the leased property multiple times.  
 
            On February 15, 2022,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants Henry Darshad, Lorraine Anderson
(Darshad’s attorney), Goldie Marshall (special administrator of Darshad’s
estate) and the Estate of Henry Houshang Darshad.  Plaintiff alleges (1) malicious prosecution
and (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED).  On January 9, 2024, Defendant Lorraine Anderson filed the instant Motion
to Bifurcate the Issue of Probable Cause. 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion to
Bifurcate.  On January 31, 2024,
Defendant Anderson filed a Reply.  
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP) §1048(b), “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of the state or of the United States.”
            
            CCP §598 provides in pertinent part
as follows: “The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of
justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order
. . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial
of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses
which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (Emphasis added).
 
            The terms “bifurcate” and
“severance” are often used interchangeably. But they have somewhat different
meanings.  A motion to “sever” asks the
court to order separate trials of issues, causes of action, or parties joined
in a single action.  (CCP §§ 1048(b),
598, 597, 597.5, 379.5; Bly-Magee v. Budget Rent-A-Car Corp. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
318, 323, fn. 5.)  The purpose is to
avoid prejudice, to promote convenience, or to permit greater expedience and
economy.  (CCP § 1048(b).)        A
motion to “bifurcate” is a type of severance motion. It asks for a separate
trial on the issue of liability before trial of damages.  The objective is “to avoid wasting court time
in cases where the plaintiff loses on the liability issue, to promote
settlements where the plaintiff wins on the liability issue, and to afford a
more logical presentation of the evidence, thus simplifying the issues for the
jury.”  (Foreman & Clark Corp. v.
Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)
 
            Granting or denying of a motion for
separate trials lies within the trial court’s sound discretion, and is subject
to reversal on appeal only for clear abuse. 
(Grappo v Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal App 3d 496,
504.)  “The major objective of bifurcated
trials is to expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.”  (Foreman & Clark v. Fallon (1971)
3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)  CCP §1048 also
authorizes a court to separate trial of any issue for furtherance of
convenience or to avoid prejudice or where separate trials will be conducive to
expedition and economy.
 
Analysis
 
I. Parties’
positions
 
            Defendant
Anderson moves to bifurcate trial of the probable cause element of Plaintiff’s
malicious prosecution cause of action from the rest of Plaintiff’s claims.  Anderson argues whether probable cause to
file the underlying UD actions existed is a question of law for the Court and
can be resolved based on stipulated facts and legal argument.  Anderson argues that based on the undisputed
facts, probable cause existed for her to file the underlying UD actions.  
            
            In response, Plaintiff
argues the Court has already found in connection with Defendant’s prior SLAPP
motion that she presented prima facie evidence of her malicious prosecution
claim, which includes lack of probable cause. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant Anderson is attempting to relitigate the
issue.  Plaintiff argues Defendant did
not appeal the SLAPP and cannot seek reconsideration by way of this motion to
bifurcate.  
 
Defendant Anderson argues
Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address the issue of bifurcation.  Defendant argues bifurcation based on
stipulated facts would be most efficient. 
Defendant argues if the Court finds Defendant had probable cause to file
the UD actions, the case would be over. 
Defendant argues if the Court finds lack of probable cause, the issues
of malice and damages would remain for the jury.
 
II. 
DETERMINING PROBABLE CAUSE
 
            “Probable cause
is present unless any reasonable attorney would agree that the action is
totally and completely without merit. 
This permissive standard for bringing suits, and corresponding high
threshold for malicious prosecution claims, assures that litigants with
potentially valid claims won't be deterred by threat of liability for malicious
prosecution.”  (Roberts v. Sentry Life
Ins. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 375, 382 (emphasis added).)  “If the court determines that there was
probable cause to institute the prior action, the malicious prosecution action
fails, whether or not there is evidence that the prior suit was maliciously
motivated.”  (Sheldon Appel Co. v.
Albert & Oliker (1989) 47 Cal.3d 863, 886.)  The probable cause determination depends on
what was known by the litigant or attorney at the relevant time, either when
the action was filed or when the malicious prosecution plaintiff asserts
prosecution of the action became ‘malicious.’” 
(Sheldon Appel Co., supra, 47 Cal.3d at 868; Zamos v.
Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 973 (malicious prosecution action includes
continuing to prosecute a lawsuit discovered to lack probable cause).)  
 
            There are
two distinct methods of demonstrating that an action lacked probable
cause.  Lack of probable cause may be
established by demonstrating that (1) the action was legally untenable based on
the facts known to the defendant, a pure question of law for the Court; or (2)
the action was legally untenable because the defendant did not have a good
faith, reasonable belief in the facts upon which the case was based,
defendant’s good faith belief being a question of fact for the jury and the
ultimate determination of lack of probable cause based on that jury finding
being a question of law for the Court.  (Sheldon
Appel, supra, 47 Cal.3d at 880; Bertero v. National General Corp.
(1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 50; Sierra Club Foundation v Graham (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 1135, 1154; Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
164-165 (litigant lacks probable cause where he “relies upon facts which he has
no reasonable cause to believe to be true, or if he seeks recovery upon a legal
theory which is untenable under the facts known to him”); Hufstedler, Kaus
& Ettinger v. Supr. Ct. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 55, 63-64 (distinguishing
between allegation that probable cause did not exist to sue for defamation
because statements were nonactionable opinions and allegation that probable
cause did not exist because defendant knew claims was false or untrue).
 
            “[T]he existence or
absence of probable cause has traditionally been viewed as a question of law to
be determined by the court, rather than a question of fact for the jury.”  (Sheldon Appel Co, supra, 47 Cal.3d at
875.)  “While…the probable cause
determination has always been considered a question of law for the court, the
cases have also made clear that if the facts upon which the defendant acted in
bringing the prior action are controverted, they must be passed upon by the
jury before the court can determine the issue of probable cause.  What facts and circumstances amount to
probable cause is a pure question of law. Whether they exist or not in any
particular case is a pure question of fact. The former is exclusively for the
court, the latter for the jury.”  (Id.
at 878.)  
 
            “Thus, when…there
is evidence that the defendant may have known that the factual allegations on
which his action depended were untrue, the jury must determine
what facts the defendant knew before the trial court can determine the legal
question whether such facts constituted probable cause to institute the
challenged proceeding.”  (Id. at
881.)  “Accordingly, when…the facts
known by the attorney are not in dispute, the probable cause issue is properly
determined by the trial court under an objective standard; it does not include
a determination whether the attorney subjectively believed that the prior claim
was legally tenable.”  (Id.)
 
III. 
DEFENDANT FAILS TO ESTABLISH BIFURCATION WOULD BE PROPER HERE
 
            Anderson’s
request to bifurcate rests entirely on the assertion that probable cause is
purely a question of law to be determined by the Court.  However, as explained in Sheldon, if
there is a question or dispute as to whether the facts relied upon by Anderson existed
or whether Anderson believed those facts to be true, those are factual
questions that must be resolved by a jury and the Court’s ultimate legal
determination will be based on the jury’s resolution of those factual issues.  
 
            As the Court noted in
its ruling on the SLAPP motion, Plaintiffs submitted sufficient circumstantial
evidence indicating that Anderson lacked probable cause to continue prosecuting
the UD action because her factual theory lacked evidence.  The facts relied on by Anderson to file the
UD actions were disputed by an overwhelming amount of evidence, as well as an
interim ruling on Plaintiffs’ TRO request wherein the court issued the TRO
based on evidence of a lease agreement between Plaintiff and Darshad.  
 
            At least one of the
possible theories advanced by Plaintiff is that Defendant Anderson did not have
a good faith belief that Plaintiff and Darshad never executed a valid lease or
that Plaintiff was merely a squatter who was occupying the property without
permission.  “Usually, the client
provides information upon which the attorney relies in determining whether
probable cause exists for initiating a proceeding. The rule is that the
attorney may rely on those statements as a basis for exercising judgment and
providing advice, unless the client's representations are known to be false. In
other words, probable cause is measured by the facts related to the lawyer by
the client, assuming them to be true, and those learned through investigation.”
(1 Mallen & Smith, Legal Malpractice (Thomson Reuters/West 2009 ed.)
§ 6.19, pp. 813-814.)  Despite having
probable cause for initiation, “an attorney may be held liable for malicious
prosecution for continuing to prosecution a lawsuit discovered to lack probable
cause.”  (Zamos v. Stroud (2004)
32 Cal.4th 958, 973.)  A jury must
determine whether a defendant in a malicious prosecution action knew that the
facts on which the underlying action was based were untrue.  (Sheldon Appel Co, supra, 47 Cal.3d at
875.)
 
            The undisputed facts
identified by Anderson in her brief do not resolve the issue of whether she had
a good faith, subjective belief in the truth of the facts on which she based
the UD action.  Anderson argues it is
undisputed that Darshad alleged that Plaintiff entered the rental property
without his permission, that Darshad testified consistent with these allegations
and that an expert testified that the lease, lease with option and payment
receipt were “not genuine.”  (Motion,
6:1-9.)  However, even if these facts are
undisputed, they do not establish as undisputed Anderson’s reasonable, good
faith belief in Darshad’s assertions that he never signed a lease with
Plaintiff and that Plaintiff was a squatter who entered the premises without
permission.  Moreover, the Court already
determined in connection with Anderson’s SLAPP motion that sufficient
circumstantial evidence exists to call into question whether Anderson knew the
factual basis for the UD action was untrue. 
 
 
            Anderson argues
bifurcation is proper, because the jury will have no possible role in the
probable cause determination.  Anderson
fails to establish that the jury will have no possible role.  Thus, Anderson’s Motion to Bifurcate is
DENIED.  