 Case Number:  24STCV18189    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
2464 Fletcher Drive LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV18189




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Silver Lake Caregivers Group, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Summary Adjudication;
Motion to Strike Answer
Moving Party: Plaintiff 2464 Fletcher Drive LLC
Responding Party: Defendants Silver Lake Caregivers
Group and Tolabus Stein
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS
GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff 2464
Fletcher Drive LLC filed a complaint for unlawful detainer against Defendants
Silver Lake Caregivers Group and Tolabus Stein. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
failed to pay rent and operated an unlicensed cannabis dispensary on the
premises.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
“In moving for summary judgment, a
‘plaintiff . . . has met’ his ‘burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if’ he ‘has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling’ him ‘to judgment on that cause of action.’”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (as modified (July 11, 2001).)  The plaintiff “must present evidence that
would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any
underlying material fact more likely than not—otherwise, he would not be
entitled to judgment as a matter of law, but would have to
present his evidence to a trier of fact.” 
(Id., at 851, original italics.)
 
Once the plaintiff has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  “There is a triable issue of material fact
if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find
the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance
with the applicable standard of proof.” 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  The defendant “shall not rely upon
the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(1).)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication of the issue of possession of the premises. “The basic elements of
unlawful detainer for nonpayment of rent . . . are (1) the tenant is in
possession of the premises; (2) that possession is without permission; (3) the
tenant is in default for nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly
served with a written three-day notice; and (5) the default continues after the
three-day notice period has elapsed.” (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that
Plaintiff and Defendants had a commercial lease in which Defendants leased the
premises from Defendants for $37,015 per month and that Defendants have not
paid rent since October 2023. Plaintiff served a notice to pay rent or quit on
July 15, 2024 and Defendants have not paid the back rent. 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert that
Plaintiff filed suit for unlawful detainer before the time to cure the unpaid
rent expired. Defendants represent that the lease deems a 5-day notice to pay
rent or quit served by mail to be served on the lessee 3 days after the date of
mailing. This would have been Thursday July 18, 2024. Five business days later
would have been Thursday July 25, 2025, the same day Plaintiff filed the
complaint for unlawful detainer. Defendants argue that this gave Plaintiff only
four business days to pay the back rent. Defendants also represent that they
did not receive personal service of the notice to pay rent or quit. This is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to unlawful detainer. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
 
 
B. Motion to Strike Answer
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant
Silver Lake Caregivers Group’s answer on the ground that it is a suspended
corporation. (See Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
1361 [stating a suspended corporation is disqualified from exercising any
right, power, or privilege, including prosecuting or defending an action, or
appealing a judgment.]) Defendant has not opposed to show that it has remedied
the suspension. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to strike is
GRANTED.
 
 
 