 Case Number:  23STCV13260    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 12, 2023                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Le Cui v. HicksLander LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV13260            
 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Lei Cui
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Jerry
Mao in pro per
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract, filed on June 9, 2023,
concerning Defendants’ failure to repay and guarantee a loan agreement codified
in two promissory notes dated March 5, 2020 and June 7, 2020. 
 
Plaintiff moves for sanctions for
Defendant Jerry Mao’s unfounded Motion to Disqualify Counsel. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for sanctions for
Defendant Jerry Mao’s unfounded Motion to Disqualify Counsel. 
 
Statutory Basis For Motion
 
            Plaintiff
initially brought this motion under both Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5
and section 128.7.  Following a
procedural objection by Defendant that a motion brought under both statutes is
improper, Plaintiff conceded the issue and withdrew her motion under section
128.7.  As a result, the Court will
consider only Plaintiff’s arguments under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5.
 
Compliance with the Safe Harbor Provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure § 128.5(f)(1)(B)
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5. The safe-harbor provision of section 128.5 provides:
 
If the
alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing of a written motion
or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other
responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice
of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed
with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the motion or
any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is
not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. 
 
(CCP § 128.5(f)(1)(B) (bold emphasis added).)
 
Plaintiff served Defendant with the motion on September 8,
2023 via email. (Declaration of Michael Chen ISO Mot. ¶¶ 5-6, Exhs. 1-2.) However,
the motion did not contain a separate notice of motion, nor did it specify the
date or time the motion was scheduled to be heard. A Notice of Motion, as
provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010, “must be in writing, and . .
. must state when, and the grounds upon which [the motion] will be made, and
the papers, if any, upon which it is to be based.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.) Defendant
objects to the motion in his opposition as failing to comply with this
provision. In reply, Plaintiff asserts that section 1010 does not require a
motion to state the exact date, time, and place for a hearing, and doing so for
a motion under section 128.5 would defeat the purpose of the statute. Plaintiff
provides no authority for this claim. This is unsurprising, as the plain
language of section 1010, with which the safe harbor provision mandates
compliance, requires a separate notice of motion which must state when
the motion will be made. The motion provided to Defendant does not contain this
information. Strict compliance with the safe harbor provision is required. (Li
v. Majestic Industry Hills LLC (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 585, 593.) Plaintiff
has failed to comply with the safe harbor provision. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 12, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 