  Case Number:  22STCV15210    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  47  
Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 12, 2023                TRIAL DATE: February
13, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Molly Steele v. Burlington Medical, LLC,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV15210            
 
MOTION
FOR REFERENCE OF DISCOVERY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Molly Steele
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants
Burlington Medical, LLC, Bar-Ray Products, Inc., and Fox Three Partners, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination that was filed on May 6,
2022. Plaintiff alleges that she was wrongfully terminated based on her age and
gender.
 
Plaintiff moves for reference of
all discovery in this matter. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reference
for Discovery is GRANTED. 
 
Appointment of a discovery referee
is necessary to mitigate the undue burden on the Court’s time and resources
from the numerous discovery motions at issue in this case and the voluminous
records which those motions entail.
 
The Court appoints the Hon. Cecily
Bond (Ret.), business address 555 West 5th St., 32nd Floor, Los Angeles, CA
90013, phone number 213-620-1133; as referee in this action for all discovery
purposes pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 639(a)(5). The referee’s maximum
hourly rate shall be fixed at $1,250 per hour for a maximum of $10,000 per day
pursuant to the JAMS fee schedule for the referee. Each party shall bear a pro
rata share of the referee’s fees. 
 
All discovery motions on calendar
for December 12, 2023 are CONTINUED to January 26, 2024 at 1:30 PM for
rescheduling purposes only. 
The Informal Discovery Conference
scheduled for January 26, 2024 at 1:30 PM is converted into a Status Conference
Re: Discovery Reference
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for reference of
all discovery in this matter. 
 
            The Court
is authorized to appoint a referee pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
639 over the objections of any of the parties in specified circumstances,
including, as relevant to this motion, “[w]hen the court in any pending action
determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and
determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in
the action and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 639(a)(5).) If a referee is appointed pursuant to subdivision
(a)(5), the order “shall indicate whether the referee is being appointed for
all discovery purposes in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 639(c).) Any
appointment of a referee under this section must be by written order and must state,
as relevant here:
 
(2) [. . .] the exceptional
circumstances requiring the reference, which must be specific to the
circumstances of the particular case.
 
(3) The subject matter or matters
included in the reference.
 
(4) The name, business address, and
telephone number of the referee.
 
(5) The maximum hourly rate the referee
may charge and, at the request of any party, the maximum number of hours for
which the referee may charge. Upon the written application of any party or the
referee, the court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum number of
hours subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6).
 
(6) (A) Either a finding that no party
has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s
fee or a finding that one or more parties has established an economic inability
to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fees and that another party has agreed
voluntarily to pay that additional share of the referee’s fee. A court shall
not appoint a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these findings is
made.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 639(d) (2)-(6).) “Unless both parties
have agreed to a reference, the court should not make blanket orders directing
all discovery motions to a discovery referee except in the unusual case where a
majority of factors favoring reference are present.” (Taggares v. Superior
Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 94, 105.) These factors include “(1) there are
multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there are multiple motions to be heard
simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only one in a continuum of many; (4)
the number of documents to be reviewed (especially in issues based on
assertions of privilege) make the inquiry inordinately time-consuming.” (Id.)
In reaching its decision, the Court must consider that “the statutory scheme is
designed only to permit reference over the parties’ objections where that
procedure is necessary, not merely convenient.” (Id. at 135-36.) However,
“[w]here one or more of the above factors unduly impact the court’s time and/or
limited resources, the court is clearly within its discretion to make an
appropriate reference.” (Id. at 136.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that all four factors are present and are likely to unduly impact the
Court’s resources. As Plaintiff correctly observes, there are currently 13
separate discovery motions, all from Plaintiff, which are currently pending. Although
several of those motions were addressed at the Informal Discovery Conference
held on November 28, 2023, none of those motions have been fully resolved, and
the discovery sought remains outstanding. (See November 28, 2023 IDC Minute
Order.) Further, several of Plaintiff’s motions concern the adequacy of
Defendants’ document production, which in turn potentially requires review of
extensive documentation, while others concern totally separate issues such as
depositions and interrogatories. 
 
            Defendants
argue in opposition that reference is not warranted because the circumstances
are not exceptional, and Plaintiff’s arguments are mere speculation. According
to Defendants, Informal Discovery Conferences are more than adequate to resolve
any remaining discovery disputes between the parties. The Court is not so
convinced. Discovery in this action has proven extremely contentious, involving
numerous motions and voluminous records. Even Informal Discovery Conferences in
this matter—which themselves require review of the record as well as further
filings from the parties before the hearing—are quite burdensome on the Court’s
time. The Court concurs with Plaintiff that the bulk of discovery motions and
issues in this case has become unduly burdensome on the Court’s time. 
 
            Plaintiff
proposes Hon. Cecily Bond (Ret.) as the referee. Plaintiff has provided Judge
Bond’s CV and fee schedule, which shows a daily rate of $10,000, or $1,250 per
hour for an 8-hour day. (See Declaration of Robert King ISO Mot. Exh. A.) 
 
            Although
Defendants assert that appointment of a discovery referee will increase the
costs of litigation for them, neither party claims an inability to pay a pro
rata share of a discovery referee’s rates. The Court therefore finds that no
party has established any such inability to pay their pro rata share of a
discovery referee’s rates. 
 
            As
Defendants offer no objection to the appointment of Judge Bond as the referee,
the Court accepts Plaintiff’s proposal.
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, the Court finds that, because of the numerous discovery
motions already at issue in this case and the voluminous records which those
motions entail, the Court’s limited time and resources have become unduly
impacted such that it is necessary to appoint a discovery referee to hear and
determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in
the action and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Reference
for Discovery is GRANTED. 
 
Appointment of a discovery referee
is necessary to mitigate the undue burden on the Court’s time and resources
from the numerous discovery motions at issue in this case and the voluminous
records which those motions entail.
 
The Court appoints the Hon. Cecily
Bond (Ret.), business address 555 West 5th St., 32nd Floor, Los Angeles, CA
90013, phone number 213-620-1133; as referee in this action for all discovery
purposes pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 639(a)(5). The referee’s maximum
hourly rate shall be fixed at $1,250.00 per hour for a maximum of $10,000 per
day pursuant to the JAMS fee schedule for the referee. Each party shall bear a
pro rata share of the referee’s fees. 
 
All discovery motions on calendar
for December 12, 2023 are CONTINUED to January 26, 2024 at 1:30 PM for
rescheduling purposes only. 
 
The Informal Discovery Conference
scheduled for January 26, 2024 at 1:30 PM is converted into a Status Conference
Re: Discovery Reference
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 12, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 