  Case Number:  20STCV45494    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WC INSURANCE AGENCY, LLC, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
JAMES S. BEKHOR INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV45494
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 15, 2024



 
On
November 25, 2020, Plaintiffs WC Insurance Agency LLC, Omni Safe Insurance Agency
LLC, and Joshua Sawicki filed this action against Defendants James S. Bekhor Insurance
Services Inc., JSB Holdings LLC, and James S. Bekhor.  Plaintiffs dismissed and James S. Bekhor on October
20, 2021.
On
December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Joshua Sawicki filed a motion for summary adjudication
of Defendants’ contractual duties and the second cause of action for specific performance.[1]
Sawicki
seeks an order requiring Defendants to satisfy their contractual obligations to
(1) account for and pay to Sawicki his share of all Net Profits received by Defendants
and their Affiliates to date in connection with the operation of all four Acquired
Agencies as required by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (2) permit an audit of
Defendants’ books and records relating to all four Acquired Agencies as required
by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (3) cooperate in the valuation of the parties’
respective interests in the joint venture as of the date of termination of the JV
Agreement as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement, and (4) pay to
Sawicki the value of his share of the joint venture as of the date of termination
of the JV Agreement, as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement.  (Motion at p. 12.)
In
opposition, Defendants contend that “[t]he agencies which allegedly earned profits
which are the subject of this Motion . . . never came within the contours of JV
Agreement,” and “Jeremy was not ‘controlled’ by JSB (nor were Jeremy and JBEK subsidiaries
of JSB), no separate joint venture agreement was entered into by Jeremy and JSB,
and JSB did not receive any profits from Jeremy.”  Therefore, the motion should be denied “light
of the inherently factual disputes presented.”
A.        The Parties Must Redo Their Separate Statements.
“Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather
to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously
review complex motions for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine
quickly and efficiently whether material facts are undisputed.”  ((United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides a convenient
and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)
“The separate statement should include only material
facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)  The parties should not “include in the separate
statement every fact they intend to include in their motion, regardless of
its materiality.”  (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing,
Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 875.)  “The paragraphs in a separate statement should
be limited to facts that address the elements of a cause of action or an affirmative
defense.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule
3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).)  The statute and Rules
of Court do not preclude litigants from including background, nonmaterial information
in their papers as long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial
facts should not be included in the separate statement.  The point of the separate statement is not to
craft a narrative, but to be a concise list of the material facts and the evidence
that supports them.”  (Ibid.)
Despite
the parties’ lengthy separate statements, is not clear to the Court what, if any,
material facts are undisputed or disputed. 
The parties frequently set forth evidentiary facts rather than ultimate facts,
which bury the actual undisputed (or disputed) issues that are material to this
motion.  The separate statements must be revised
to include only material facts pertinent
to the disposition of the motion.
Plaintiff
is ordered to send his revised separate statement to Defendants no later than March
29, 2024.
Defendants are ordered to send their response to Plaintiff’s
separate
statement, along with Defendants’ revised separate statement of disputed facts,
to Plaintiff no later than April 12, 2024.
The
parties are ordered to jointly file the revised separate statements and responses
no later than April 26, 2024.
The Hearing on Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED
to May 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
B.        The Court Orders Supplemental Briefing.
During the review of Plaintiff’s motion and proposed
order, the Court was concerned about additional issues, for which it orders supplemental
briefing:
·        
Does Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
constitute an election of remedy?
·        
What, if any, issues remain for a jury trial?  If the motion is denied, should this action proceed
as a bench trial in whole or in part?
·        
Plaintiff’s proposed order granting the motion
includes an order that Defendants “cooperate in the valuation of the parties’ respective
interests in the joint venture and its Acquired Agencies as of the date of termination
of the JV Agreement.”  If the Court grants
specific performance, how will that be executed?  Would the parties both select appraisers pursuant
to JV Agreement § 10.01(c)?  Does Plaintiff
have the sole right to select an appraiser due to Defendants’ failure to comply
with this term before a court order?
·        
Does JV Agreement § 10.01(c) constitute an
arbitration agreement?  Could/should the Court
order the parties to arbitrate the issues of valuation and the striking of a
balance between the parties pursuant to the JV Agreement?  What issues in the case (if any) would not be
referred to arbitration and how and when would those issues be decided?
·        
Could/should the Court appoint an accounting
referee in this action?
·        
If the Court appoints an accounting
referee, how should the referee be instructed? 
How should questions by the referee be answered?  Will a jury and/or the Court need to decide
any issues before the Court gives instructions to the referee?
·        
Should this action be stayed during the any
referral to arbitration or accounting?
Simultaneous
briefs addressing these issues shall be filed no later than April 19, 2024.
Clerk
to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 15th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


