On June 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Seth and Erin Grahame-Smith filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) negligence, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) breach of written agreement, (4) breach of express warranty, (5) breach of implied warranty, and (6) breach of oral agreement.  Defendants Infinity Construction & Design and Ran Neuman demur to the FAC for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Defendants first argue that Plaintiffs’ claims fail because they rely on an incomplete contract and if the Court were to take judicial notice of the whole contract then the missing provisions would contradict the claims at issue.   This argument is rejected because the Court cannot take judicial notice of a contract, the provisions of which are in dispute, as is apparently the case here.  Defendants’ argument, therefore, impermissibly relies on extrinsic evidence.  The Request for Judicial Notice is denied. Defendants also argue that “It is important to note that the contract, the website, and all dealings were between Plaintiffs and Infinity. Nothing as to Ran Neuman, personally.”  However, this is not certain from the face of the pleadings or judicially noticeable facts.  Defendants merely raise a factual dispute.   Finally, Defendants argue that all claims are time-barred because they “occurred more than five years ago in 2018. . . . Plaintiffs do not allege any fraud, delayed discovery, concealment, or any other basis for negligence.” The FAC, however, asserts that Plaintiffs did not learn of Defendants’ illegal and negligent work until “[o]n or about September 24, 2021, [when] Plaintiffs received a ‘NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION’ from the Los Angeles City Department of Building Safety, Code Enforcement Bureau . . . .”  The initial Complaint was filed on February 14, 2023.  The shortest statute of limitations at issue would be two or three years.  The Complaint was filed within two years of September 24, 2021.  Therefore, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within twenty days.  Moving parties to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.