 This is a lemon law action.  Plaintiff Rogelio Badajoz seeks to compel further responses to his special interrogatories (“SI”), set one, nos. 14, 25, 40-45 and 57 and requests for production, set one, nos. 1, 3, 9, 17, 31, 37-72, 78, 79, and 82 propounded on Defendant General Motors, LLC.Special InterrogatoriesThe Motion is granted as to SI no. 14, which seeks the identity of individuals performing repairs.  The objections lack merit, as does the reference to documents.  The Motion is granted as to SI no. 25, which seeks the identity of those in charge of the customer relations department applicable to Plaintiff’s region.  The objections lack merit.The Motion is denied as to SI. no 40, which states, “Identify the individual(s) whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that YOU are properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced pursuant to The SongBeverly Warranty Act.”  This is overbroad.  The Motion is denied as to SI no. 41, which relates to SI no. 40.The Motion is granted as to SI no. 42, which states, “Explain with particularity all aspects of YOUR investigation into whether the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified or was eligible for repurchase or replacement pursuant to The Song-Beverly Warranty Act.”  The response provided was evasive and generalized..The Motion is granted as to SI no. 43, which states, “IDENTIFY all PERSON(S) involved in YOUR investigation by full name, address, and telephone number, including any individuals with whom YOU communicated regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  The response was insufficient.  The Motion is granted as to SI nos. 44 and 45, which seek identification of all documents and individuals involved in Defendant’s investigation.  Again, the responses were insufficient/evasive.  The Motion is granted as to SI no. 57, which asks Defendant to state the number of days the subject vehicle was out for repairs.  The response was again evasive.In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be served within thirty days.Requests for ProductionThe Motion is granted as to request nos. 1 and 3, which merely seek documents relating to the subject vehicle.  The objections lack merit. The Motion is granted as to request no. 9, which seeks all recall documents.  The objections lack merit and the response was insufficient. The Motion is denied as to request no. 17, which  is overbroad and overburdensome. The Motion is denied as to request no. 31, which seeks all documents relating to Defendant’s call center.  This is also overbroad and overburdensome.The Motion is denied as to request nos. 37-72, which are also overbroad and overburdensome because they seek documents relating to vehicles other than the subject vehicle.  The Motion is granted as to request nos. 78 and 79, which seek all applicable recalls and TSBs for the subject transmission.The Motion is granted as to request no. 82, which seeks “All DOCUMENTS regarding Defendant’s repair procedures consulted and followed during the completion of repairs for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  The response was insufficient and the objections lack merit.In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be served within thirty days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 