 On March 15, 2023, Plaintiff Rafael Ayala filed the operative Complaint against Defendant LA Rentals Live LLC for (1) violation of Civ. Code § 1942.4, (2) breach of warranty of habitability, (3) nuisance, (4) violation of the UCL, and (5) negligence.  Defendant LA Rentals Live LLC now seeks to strike the Complaint’s references to punitive damages.  Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has not alleged any facts that together allege that Defendant engaged in despicable conduct. Plaintiff’s purported habitability complaints alleged in of the Complaint are boilerplate and vague, such as ‘inoperable windows’ and ‘inoperable elevators with broken lights and gang-oriented graffiti.’  Plaintiff also list a number of occasions where the ‘Defendants’ were ordered to abate conditions (most of which are from before when Defendant purchased the property). There are no factual pleadings, even viewed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, that rises to the level of despicable conduct.”Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)Under Civ. Code § 3294, a corporate entity can only be liable for punitive damages when its managing agent, officer, or director (1) directly commits malice, oppression, or fraud, (2) ratifies such misconduct by an employee, or (3) hires an employee committing such misconduct with advance knowledge of the employee’s unfitness and with a conscious disregard for the safety of others. The Motion is denied.  This is because Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to indicate malice with regard to Defendant’s intentional failure to do repairs at the subject premises.  (See, e.g., Smith v. David (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 101, 112.)  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 