  Case Number:  21STCV21293    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/14/23
Case #21STCV21293
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL PRIOR PLEADINGS & DISCOVERY
 
Motion filed on 9/6/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Keolis Transit America, Inc. (Doe
1)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Phyllis R. Ginolfi, by and
through her Conservator, Christin C. Solis
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling Plaintiff to
provide complete documents, without objections, responsive to Defendant Keolis
Transit America, Inc.’s Request for Prior Pleadings and Discovery.  Additionally, Keolis requests sanctions
against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Law Offices of Steven
C. Gambardella, in the amount of $860.00.
 
RULING: The motion is denied. 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On 6/7/21, Plaintiff Phyllis R. Ginolfi, by and through
her Conservator, Christin C. Solis (Plaintiff) filed this action against Right
Choice In-Home Care, Inc. and GMA Management Group, Inc. dba Pacoima Adult Day
Care for dependent adult/elder abuse and negligence.  On 3/15/23, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment
naming Defendant Keolis Transit America, Inc. as Doe 1 (Keolis).
 
On 6/2/23, Keolis propounded a Request for Prior
Pleadings and Discovery on all parties by mail and email.  (Tran Decl., Ex.A).  Plaintiff never served a response to the
request and no responsive documents have been produced.  (Tran Decl.). 

 
Therefore, on 9/6/23, Keolis filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order compelling Plaintiff to provide complete documents,
without objections, responsive to Keolis’ Request for Prior Pleadings and
Discovery. Additionally, Keolis requests sanctions against Plaintiff and/or
Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Law Offices of Steven C. Gambardella, in the
amount of $860.00.  Plaintiff has not
opposed or otherwise responded to the motion. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
The motion is made pursuant to CCP 2031.010, et seq.  (See Motion, p.2:11, p.5:4-27,
p.7:2-5).  
 
CCP 2031.030 provides: 
 
“(a)(1) A
party demanding inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling shall number each set of demands consecutively.
(2) A party
demanding inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of electronically stored
information may specify the form or forms in which each type of electronically
stored information is to be produced.
(b) In the first paragraph
immediately below the title of the case, there shall appear the identity of the
demanding party, the set number, and the identity of the responding party.
(c) Each demand in a set shall be
separately set forth, identified by number or letter, and shall do all of the
following:
(1) Designate the documents,
tangible things, land or other property, or
electronically stored information to be inspected, copied, tested, or sampled either by
specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing
each category of item.
(2) Specify a reasonable time for
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling that
is at least 30 days after service of the demand, unless the court for good
cause shown has granted leave to specify an earlier date. In an unlawful
detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, the demand shall specify a reasonable time for
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling that
is at least five days after service of the demand, unless the court, for good
cause shown, has granted leave to specify an earlier date.
(3) Specify a reasonable place for
making the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and performing any related activity.
(4) Specify any inspection, copying, testing, sampling, or related
activity that is being demanded, as well as the manner in which that activity
will be performed, and whether that activity will permanently alter or
destroy the item involved.”
 
The subject request seeks: 
 
“copies of all pleadings, all
discovery requests and responses thereto, any motions, papers, deposition
transcripts or other papers, not previously served on the requesting party, for
any reason, which each party has originated herein, or which have been filed or
served herein, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 465, 2025, 2030,
2031, and 2033.” 
 
The request/demand is not numbered.  CCP 2031.030(a)(1); (See Tran Decl.,
Ex.A).  Additionally, the identity of the
demanding party, the set number, and the identity of the responding party is
not set forth in the first paragraph immediately below the title of the case in
the request/demand.  CCP
2031.030(b).  In fact, Keolis’ counsel
concedes that the same general blanket request was made to all parties.  (Tran Decl. ¶2).  The request/demand improperly lumps together
the request for the production of various different categories of documents and
does not set forth a place for the inspection. 
CCP 2031.030(c).  
 
Additionally, it is not entirely clear what documents
Keolis seeks from Plaintiff – only documents from Plaintiff or documents from
all other parties.  If it is the latter, Keolis
fails to explain why Plaintiff would be responsible for providing Keolis with such
documents and/or how Plaintiff would know whether the documents from such other
parties were previously served on Keolis.
 
Since the underlying request does not comply with the
statutory requirements, Keolis has failed to establish that it is entitled to
the relief requested.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
