 Case Number:  22CHCV00273    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/14/23                                                           
TRIAL DATE: 10/21/24
Case #22CHCV00273
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 11/6/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants Endeavor
Recovery, LLC; Diana Radakovic and Sean Rougeau
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants Andranik Justin Avakyan aka Justin Avakyan;  Vrezh F. Avakyan aka Freddy Avakyan and Avakyan
Properties, LLC

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 2nd,
3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th,
9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th causes of action:
            1.  Breach of Written
Contract
            2.  Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            3.  Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Derivative)
            4.  Breach of Oral Contract
            5.  Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
            6.  Embezzlement
            7.  Quantum Meruit
            8.  Accounting
            9.  Violation of Business & Professions Code
17200
            10.
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation*    

            11.
Breach of Oral Contract*       
            12.
Common Counts*      
            

*The 10th,
11th and 12th causes of action listed in the caption of
the First Amended Cross-Complaint do not match those in the body.  The 10th, 11th and 12th
causes of action listed above are those set forth in the body of the First
Amended Cross-Complaint.  

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained, with leave to
amend, in part, and overruled, in part. 
An amended cross-complaint is due within 30 days.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out the development, operation and
closure of a residential drug treatment facility/center in Northridge,
California.  In sum, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Endeavor Recovery, LLC (Endeavor) alleges that Defendant/Cross-Complainant Vrezh
F. Avakyan aka Freddy Avakyan (Freddy) misrepresented that Endeavor would not
have to pay for any of the costs for constructing the treatment facility; that Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Andranik Justin Avakyan aka Justin Avakyan (Justin) breached the terms of Endeavor’s
Operating Agreement, embezzled funds and/or aided and abetted the embezzlement
of funds from Endeavor; that Defendant/Cross-Complainant Avakyan Properties,
LLC (Avakyan Properties) and Freddy failed to allow Endeavor to retrieve
personal property from the premises after Endeavor left the property where the
facility was located; and that Freddy made misrepresentations regarding the
marketing of the residential treatment facility, guaranteeing he could fill the
facility with clients, embezzled money, etc. 

 
On 4/21/22, Endeavor filed the instant action.  On 7/1/22, Endeavor filed its First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract
against Justin; (2)  Breach of Fiduciary
Duty against Justin; (3) Embezzlement against Justin and Freddy; (4) Aiding and
Abetting Embezzlement against Justin and Freddy; (5) Breach of Written Contract
against Avakyan Properties and Freddy; (6) Conversion against Avakyan
Properties and Freddy; (7) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation against
Justin and Freddy; (8) Accounting against Avakyan Properties and Freddy; (9)
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud against Justin and Freddy; (10) Breach of Oral
Agreement against Freddy; (11) Common Count – Money Had and Received against
Avakyan Properties and Freddy; (12) Unjust Enrichment against Avakyan
Properties and Freddy and (13) Declaratory Relief against Justin.  On 10/27/22, Avakyan
Properties, Justin and Freddy’s demurrer and motion to strike as to the
First Amended Complaint were sustained and granted with leave to amend.  
 
On 11/21/22, Endeavor filed its operative Second Amended
Complaint which alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract;
(2) Embezzlement; (3) Aiding and Abetting Embezzlement; (4) Conversion; (5)
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Accounting; (7) Breach of Oral
Agreement; (8) Common Count – Money Had and Received; (9) Unjust Enrichment and
(10) Declaratory Relief.  On 2/21/23, Justin’s
demurrer to the 5th cause of action in the Second Amended Complaint
was sustained without leave to amend and Freddy’s demurrer to the 5th
and 7th causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint was
overruled.  (See 2/21/23 Minute
Order).  The accompanying motion to
strike was granted without leave to amend as to the allegations regarding Justin’s
capital contributions and was otherwise denied. 
Id.  The Court ordered an
answer/s was/were due within 30 days.  Id.  
 
On 3/23/23, Justin, Freddy and Avakyan Properties
answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Endeavor, Diana
Radakovic (Radakovic) and Sean Rougeau (Rougeau).  In response to a demurrer to the cross-complaint,
the subject First Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on 9/21/23 alleging causes
of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract by Justin against Radakovic,
Rougeau and Endeavor; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty by Justin against Radakovic
and Rougeau; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Derivative) by Justin on behalf of
Endeavor against Radakovic and Rougeau; (4) Breach of Oral Contract by Justin
against Endeavor; (5) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation by Justin against
Endeavor, Radakovic and Rougeau; (6) Embezzlement by Justin against Radakovic
and Rougeau; (7) Quantum Meruit by Justin against Endeavor; (8)
Accounting by Justin against Endeavor, Radakovic and Rougeau; (9) Violation
of Business & Professions Code 17200 by Justin against Endeavor, Radakovic
and Rougeau; (10) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation* by Freddy against
Endeavor, Radakovic and Rougeau; (11) Breach of Oral Contract* by Freddy
against Endeavor, Radakovic and Rougeau; and (12) Common Counts* by Freddy
against Endeavor.  The Court notes that the
10th, 11th and 12th causes of action listed in
the caption of the First Amended Cross-Complaint do not match those in the
body.  The 10th, 11th
and 12th causes of action listed above are those set forth in the
body of the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 

 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve issues
Endeavor, Radakovic and Rougeau (collectively, Cross-Defendants) had with the
First Amended Cross-Complaint, the instant demurrer to the 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th,
10th, 11th, and 12th causes of action was
filed and served on 11/6/23.  Justin,
Freddy and Avakyan Properties 
(collectively, Cross-Complainants) have opposed the demurrer and Cross-Defendants
have filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
  
Cross-Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.  
 
2ND CAUSE OF ACTION – BREACH OF FIDUCIARY
DUTY
 
As against Rougeau, Justin has failed to state a claim
for breach of fiduciary duty.  In the
demurrer to Endeavor’s First Amended Complaint, Justin argued, in part, that
because the Statement of Information filed on behalf of Endeavor identified
Radakovic as the sole manager, a fact of which the Court took judicial notice,
a claim for breach of fiduciary duty against him failed.  In the First Amended Cross-Complaint, Justin
claims that Rougeau owed him and Endeavor a fiduciary duty of care and loyalty
pursuant to Corporations Code 17704.09. 
(FAXC ¶50).    
 
However, Corporations Code 17704.09(f)(3) provides that,
except as otherwise provided, in a manager-managed limited liability company,
which Justin argued Endeavor was in the demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint, a member does not have any fiduciary duty to the limited liability
company or to any other member solely by reason of being a member.  The opposition to the instant demurrer argues
that pursuant to Corporations Code 17704.09(d) Rougeau owed a fiduciary duty of
good faith and fair dealing.  However,
the First Amended Cross-Complaint does not mention subsection (d) of
Corporations Code 17704.09.  (See
FAXC ¶50).  Even if it did, Corporations
Code 17704.09(d) provides that a member of a limited liability company “shall discharge
the duties to a limited liability company and the other members under this
title or under the operating agreement and exercise any rights consistent with
the obligation of good faith and fair dealing.” 
Justin has failed to establish that the duties covered by Corporations
Code 17704.09(d) constitute “fiduciary duties” and/or that Rougeau allegedly
knowing about, consenting, approving and/or ratifying Radakovic’s alleged
breach of fiduciary duties constitutes a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by
Rougeau.    
 
3RD CAUSE OF ACTION – BREACH OF FIDUCIARY
DUTY (DERIVATIVE CLAIM)
 
The claim fails as against both Radakovic and Rougeau
because the First Amended Cross-Complaint does not make clear that Justin
brings or is entitled to bring any claim(s) as a representative of
Endeavor.  (See FAXC ¶¶1, 4).  Additionally, as to Rougeau the claim fails
for the reasons set forth above in relation to the 2nd cause of
action.  
 
4TH & 11TH CAUSES OF ACTION
– BREACH OF ORAL CONTRACT
 
The demur to these causes of action is based solely on
the argument that the claims are barred by the applicable 2-year statute of
limitations because the claims accrued in December 2019, June of 2020 and/or
November 2020 and the cross-complaint was not filed until March of 2023.  However, as noted in the opposition and not
refuted in the reply, the filing of the complaint tolled the statute of
limitations on any cross-claims.  See
ZF Micro Devices, Inc. (2016) 5 CA5th 69, 92-93; Sidney (1988)
198 CA3d 710, 715.  Since the complaint
was filed on 4/21/22, the claims are, at least in part, timely.   
 
5TH & 10TH CAUSES OF ACTION
– FRAUD – INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION
 
Contrary to the argument in the demurrer, the fraud claims
are pled with sufficient factual specificity. 

 
6TH CAUSE OF ACTION – EMBEZZLEMENT
 
“Embezzlement is the fraudulent appropriation of property
by a person to whom it has been entrusted.” 
Penal Code 593.  “Aiding and
abetting occurs when one helps another commit a prohibited act.”  Janken (1996) 46 CA4th 55, 77.
 
Without any supporting authority, the demurrer and reply argue
that because Endeavor is a manager-managed LLC, there is no requirement for
Radakovic to seek approval from the other members of the LLC to write checks
from Endeavor’s bank accounts.  Even if
such is true, Justin has also alleged that Radakovic “caused payments to be
made to herself and/or entities which she owned or controlled without properly
accounting for same and by using false and misleading memos to disguise
distributions she made to herself as business expenses.”  (FAXC ¶79). 
Justin also  alleges that Rougeau
aided and abetted Radakovic in this misconduct and benefitted from same.  Id. 
Justin further alleges Radakovic failed to deposit or otherwise properly
account for all checks written to Endeavor in order to make distributions to
herself and/or Rougeau without making an equal distribution to Justin.  (FAXC ¶80). 
Again, Justin alleges that Rougeau aided and abetted this
misconduct.  (FAXC ¶81).  Such allegations are sufficient to state a
claim for embezzlement.  
 
7TH CAUSE OF ACTION – QUANTUM MERUIT 
 
The elements of a quantum meruit cause of action are: (1)
the plaintiff acted pursuant to an explicit or implicit request for the
services by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a benefit on the
defendant.  Port Medical Wellness,
Inc. (2018) 24 CA5th 153, 181.  
 
Cross-Defendants cite no authority to support their
argument in relation to the demurrer to the quantum meruit cause of
action.  Cross-Defendants improperly seem
to argue that Justin must prove his claim at the pleading stage.  However, the facts alleged must be accepted
as true at the pleading stage and are sufficient to state such a claim.  (See FAXC ¶¶66, 85-88).
 
Cross-Defendants also argue that the claim is
time-barred.  However, as with the 4th
and 10th causes of action, the filing of the underlying complaint
tolled the statute of limitations on any cross-claims.  
 
 
9TH CAUSE OF ACTION – VIOLATION OF BUSINESS
& PROFESSIONS CODE 17200 
 
Business & Professions Code 17200 prohibits any
“unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”   “[A]ny
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice is deemed to be unfair
competition.”  Podolsky (1996) 50
CA4th 632, 647. 
 
The allegations which form the bases for the other causes
in the First Amended Cross-Complaint which are sufficiently pled (i.e., the 5th
and 6th causes of action) are also sufficient to state a claim for
unfair business practices.  
 
12TH CAUSE OF ACTION – COMMON COUNTS
 
The elements of a common count are: (1) the statement of
indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration and (3) nonpayment.  Farmers Insurance Exchange (1997) 53
CA4th 445, 460.  When  a common count is used as an alternative way
of seeking the same relief demanded in a specific cause of action, and is based
on the same facts, the common count is demurrable if the specific cause of
action is demurrable.  McBride
(2004) 123 CA4th 379, 394.  
 
The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges sufficient
facts to state common counts for quantum meruit, money had and received and
reasonable value of services on behalf of Freddy.  The claim seems to be based, at least in
part, on the breach of oral contract claim which is sufficiently pled and is
not so uncertain that Endeavor cannot respond. 
Freddy does not have to prove his claim at the pleading stage.     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is
sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to Rougeau and, to the extent made by
Radakovic, is overruled.  The demurrer to
the 3rd cause of action is sustained with 30 days leave to
amend.  Due to the liberal policy of
allowing leave to amend and because this is the first time the claims are
before the Court, Cross-Complainants are given the opportunity to try to cure
the defects in these causes of action.
 
The demurrer is overruled as to the 4th, 5th,
6th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 11th
and 12th causes of action.    
 