 Case Number:  22STCV21130    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARCELUS LAIDLER, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV21130
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 31, 2023



 
Defendants County of Los Angeles’, Los
Angeles Department of Health Services’, Los Angeles County + University of
Southern California Medical Center aka LAC+USC Medical Center’s, and University
of Southern California’s demurrer to Plaintiff Marcelus Laidler ex rel
Debra Legans’ first amended complaint is overruled as to the 10th cause of
action and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 4th,
5th, and 6th causes of action.
Defendants’
motion to strike is denied as moot. 
 
Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”), Los Angeles
Department of Health Services (“LADHS”), Los Angeles County + University of
Southern California Medical Center aka LAC+USC Medical Center (“LAC+USC Medical”),
and University of Southern California (“USC”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
demur to Plaintiff Marcellus
Laidler’s, individually, by and through his guardian ad litem and conservator
Debra Legans, (“Laidler”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs.
1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)  Defendants
also moves to strike portions of the FAC. 
(Notice of MTS, pgs. 2-3.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on June 29, 2022.  On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC against Defendants, alleging ten causes of action: (1) violation
of Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act [against all Defendants]; (2) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision [against County and USC]; (3) professional
negligence [against County and USC]; (4) breach of fiduciary duty [against
County and USC]; (5) lack of informed consent [against County and USC];
(6) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act [against County and USC];
(7) battery [against DOES 1-200]; (8) assault [against DOES 1-200];
(9) false imprisonment [against DOES 1-200]; and (10) intentional infliction
of emotional distress [against all Defendants].
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s admission to LAC+USC Medical
on or about April-May 2021 for medical treatment for, among other things, ulcer
of the esophagus.  (FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges he at all relevant
times was a “dependent adult” as defined in Welfare and Institutions Code
§15610.23 and suffered from manic depression, bipolar disorder, and
schizophrenia.  (FAC ¶14.)  
Plaintiff alleges while he was at LAC+USC Medical, Defendants,
including their clinical/nursing staff, while acting as custodial caregivers
for Plaintiff, so neglected, abandoned, and abused his care by using seclusion
and physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience,
or staff retaliation upon Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶18.)  Plaintiff alleges for
approximately six months from April of 2021 through October of 2021, when
Plaintiff was admitted to LAC+USC Medical, and while admitted to department “2E,”
Plaintiff was subjected to the unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal use of
5-point physical restraints by County clinical and non-clinical staff.  (FAC ¶19.) 
Plaintiff alleges this involved several male members of County clinical
staff using excessive force and unnecessary violence to physically dominate,
hurt, and humiliate Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges this included smothering
his face with a pillow in order to suffocate him, causing him to black out on
at least one occasion; covering his nose and mouth with their hands to prevent
Plaintiff from breathing; sticking fingers in Plaintiffs eye to cause further
injury and humiliation.  (FAC ¶19.)  
Plaintiff alleges he was subjected to multiple incidents of unwarranted,
unauthorized, and illegal multiple-day long physical restraints, almost
invariably without the knowledge or approval of his conservator and/or treating
physicians.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges most incidents lasted
several days and were devoid of legality or adherence to applicable state or
federal guidelines on restraints, whereby County staff would essentially leave
Plaintiff tied down – most often along all 5 points of his body – for several
days at a time, where he was cursed at, taunted, ignored, and left with little
to no provisions.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges this includes County’s
intentional refusal to treat Plaintiff’s critical condition by depriving him of
necessary nutrition, hygiene, and critical medical care during his days long
periods of confinement.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges relatedly, he suffered from
the burn of thick leather belts tightly wrapped around his wrists and ankles
that were cutting against his skin with his every movement or rotation, for
days on end.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges during County’s inhumane
and illegal detention, Plaintiff could do nothing more than remain still to
prevent the torturous burns from the belts, urinary acid, and feces in which he
was left to wallow.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges County clinical staff would
seldom crack open his door only to find Plaintiff laying in a pool of his own
urine and feces.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges some would taunt him, while
most utterly ignored his dire medical needs.  (FAC ¶20.) 

Plaintiff alleges LAC+USC Medical knew Plaintiff was under a
conservatorship, with his mother serving as his conservator, but never told
Plaintiff’s mother that Plaintiff was being held in 5-point restraints for
multiple days at a time; or that Plaintiff had defecated and urinated on
himself and was left to sit in his waste for days at a time; or that Plaintiff
was being deprived of food and drink for days at a time; or that LAC+USC Medical
staff would regularly taunt, insult, and humiliate Plaintiff during his
unauthorized detention.  (FAC ¶21.)  
On July 20, 2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike.  On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his opposition.  On August 14,
2023, Defendants filed their reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur on the basis that Plaintiff’s claims are limited
to the statutory confines on liability against County and LAC+USC Medical
because they are public entities. 
Defendants further demur to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, and
10th causes of action because they supported only by conclusory language and
therefore fail state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Defendants demur to the 4th and 5th causes of
action as uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(f).)[1]
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states she spoke to Plaintiff’s
counsel on the telephone addressing deficiencies in the FAC.  (Decl. of Olano ¶¶6, 8, Exhs. B, D.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Dependent Adult
Abuse (Neglect) (Welfare & Institutions Code §§15600, et seq.) (1st COA)
To state a cause of action for neglect under Welfare
& Institutions Code §§15600, et seq., Plaintiff must allege the
following elements: (1) Defendant had care or custody of the Plaintiff
involving ongoing responsibility for his basic needs, which an able-bodied and
fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without
assistance; (2) Plaintiff was 65 years of age or older or a dependent adult
while he was in Defendant’s care or custody; (3) Defendant failed to use the
degree of care that a reasonable person in the same situation would have used  in providing for Plaintiff’s basic needs, including
assisting in personal hygiene or in the provision of food, clothing, or
shelter; providing medical care for physical and mental health needs; protecting
Plaintiff from health and safety hazards; or preventing malnutrition or
dehydration;  (4) Plaintiff was harmed;
and (e) Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm.  (CACI 3103.)
“Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult” means
“[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other
treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.07(a).) 
          Plaintiff alleges that
while he was admitted to LAC+USC Medical, Defendants were responsible for his
care and custody.  (FAC ¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants therefore had a
duty under federal and state regulations to provide his care, comfort and
safety.  (FAC ¶33.)  Plaintiff alleges without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, said Defendant(s), had a duty to: (a) Monitor Plaintiff’s
medical and physical condition, and to report meaningful changes therein; (b)
Follow and adhere to all patient care plans for Plaintiff based upon and
including without limitation an ongoing process of identifying his care needs; (c)
Adequately train and supervise nursing staff to perform proper custodial care; (d)
Maintain accurate and authentic medical records of Plaintiffs medical condition
and activity; (e) Maintain adequate nursing and support nursing staffing levels
and at required ratios in order to meet Plaintiff’s needs; and (f) adhere and
comply with Health and Safety Code §§1180, et seq.; California Code of
Regulations, Title 22, Division 5, Chapter 9; the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
(CMS) Conditions of Participation of Hospitals as codified in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 42, Part 482, as to use of seclusion and physical restraints.  (FAC ¶33.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s) further owed a special duty of care to
Plaintiff, who was a person and unable to care for himself-independently during
his admission at LAC+USC Medical.  (FAC
¶34.)
          Plaintiff alleges this
affirmative duty required a responsibility for a heightened degree of supervision
and care with respect to a dependent adult such as Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶35.) 
Plaintiff alleges this would include the duty to adequately care for
Plaintiff; whose mental state left him particularly vulnerable to harm.  (FAC ¶35.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s) breached the aforementioned duties to
Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges these breaches were in
reckless disregard for the safety of Plaintiff and the probability that severe
injury would result from their failure to carefully adhere to their duties.  (FAC ¶35.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s) knew or should have known that there was
a probability that injury would result from the failure to adhere to their duties.
 (FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges in particular, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Defendant failed to do all that
was listed in paragraph 38(a)-(f), as well prevent the use of seclusion and/or
physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience, or
staff retaliation on Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶35.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s), in failing to exercise the degree
of care necessary to prevent acts described above, also caused Plaintiff to
suffer the deprivation by a care custodian of goods and services necessary to
avoid physical abuse, harm, and mental suffering in violation of Welfare and
Institutions Code §15610.07(b).  (FAC
¶36.)
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the
acts and omissions of Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to
Plaintiff as alleged herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to
severe injuries, pain, emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and
mental suffering.  (FAC ¶37.)  Plaintiff alleges he is entitled to recover
damages for his pain and suffering pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code
§15657(b).  (FAC ¶37.)
          Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges facts for a cause of action under Welfare & Institutions Code §§15600
et seq.  Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges (1) Defendant had care or custody of Plaintiff involving ongoing
responsibility for his basic needs, which an able-bodied and fully competent
adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance; (2) Plaintiff
was a dependent adult while he was in Defendant’s care or custody; (3)
Defendant failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the same
situation would have used in providing for Plaintiff’s basic needs, including
assisting in personal hygiene and protecting Plaintiff from health and safety
hazards by way of Defendants’ use of 5-point physical restraints and use of
excessive force, such as smothering Plaintiff’s face with a pillow to suffocate
him, covering Plaintiff’s nose and mouth to prevent him from breathing, and
sticking fingers in Plaintiff’s eyes; 
(4) Plaintiff was harmed by Defendant’s use of thick leather belts tied
around him wrists and ankles which caused burns to his skin, as well as burns
from urinary acid and feces in which he was left to wallow for days at a time,
in addition to taunts to humiliate Plaintiff; and (e) Defendants’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm, aside from permanent injury,
skin abscesses, and scarring to Plaintiff’s hands, feet, ankles and wrists; and
injuries to Plaintiff’s legs, hips and eyes due to the improper use of force
administered during his illegal restraints, Plaintiff does and will continue to
suffer from lifelong mental and psychological post-traumatic injuries resulting
from his unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal physical restraints.  (See FAC ¶¶19-22.)
          However, Plaintiff
fails to allege with specificity exactly how and what manner each Defendant was
responsible for the alleged violations against Plaintiff.  (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
410; Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Spec., Inc. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 772, 782-783.)  A cause of
action for elder or dependent adult abuse must be pled with particularity.  (Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal. App.4th 72, 82; Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 771, 790.)  Under a
“particularity” standard of pleading, “every fact essential to the existence of
statutory liability” must be specifically pleaded against each defendant.  (Keyes v. Santa Clara Valley Water District
(1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 882, 886; Soliz v. Williams (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 577, 584-585.)
          Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action for dependent adult abuse (neglect)
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Negligent
Hiring, Training, and Retention (2nd COA)
The elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, training,
and retention are: (1) the employer defendant hired the employee; (2) the
employee was unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which they were
hired; (3) the employer defendant knew or should have known the employee was
unfit or incompetent and that the unfitness or incompetence created a
particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed
plaintiff; and (5) the
employer defendant’s negligence in hiring, supervising, or
retaining the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 426.)
          Plaintiff alleges
County and USC when hiring agents, employees, personnel,
and/or staff whose position-job duties entailed supervising,
monitoring, mentoring, caring, and/or otherwise being entrusted and responsible
for protecting the safety and well-being of patient(s) at LAC+USC Medical, owed
and had a duty to adequately and properly investigate, hire, train, and
supervise, as well as conduct an adequate background check into the education,
training, and/or job-employment experience of agents, employees, personnel,
and/or staff prior to them being hired, so as to verify, determine, and ensure
each were qualified or competent to undertake the responsibilities required
when working with, guiding, supervising, monitoring, mentoring, caring, or
otherwise being entrusted and responsible for protecting the safety and
well-being of dependent adult patient(s), especially those suffering from
mental illness, grave disability, incompetence, and/or diminished capacity.  (FAC ¶42.)
          Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s)
negligently breached their duties to Plaintiff as herein alleged throughout his
admission at LAC+USC Medical by failing to adequately and properly investigate,
hire, train, and supervise, as well as conduct an adequate background check in
assessing the truth and accuracy of the education, training, and/or experience
of agents, employees, personnel, and/or staff prior to them being hired, so as
to verify, determine, and ensure each were qualified or competent to be
entrusted to undertake the responsibilities required when working with,
guiding, supervising, monitoring, mentoring, or otherwise being responsible
for protecting the safety and well-being of said dependent adult
patient(s) suffering from mental illness, grave disability, incompetence,
and/or diminished capacity, such that they would be able to recognize instances
or potentials for problems, conflict, and harm to include, without limitation,
use of seclusion and/or physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline,
staff convenience, or staff retaliation on Plaintiff, and reporting same as
mandated by law.  (FAC ¶43.)
          Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the acts and omissions of
Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to Plaintiff as alleged
herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to severe injuries, pain,
emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and mental suffering.  (FAC ¶44.)
          Plaintiff fails to
allege USC and County knew or should have known the unnamed employee(s) was/were
unfit or incompetent and that the unfitness or incompetence created a
particular risk to others.  (See
CACI 426.)  Plaintiff fails to allege a
causal connection between the allegedly negligent hiring, training, retention,
and supervision or the unfitness of any employee and the alleged harm suffered
by Plaintiff.  (See CACI 426.)
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for negligent hiring,
training, and retention is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Breach of
Fiduciary Duty (4th COA)
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty
are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and
(3) damage proximately caused by the breach.  (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1101.)
“A fiduciary relationship is ‘any relation existing between
parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act
with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter’s knowledge or consent. . . .’” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29, internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges by virtue of their “health care provider/patient”
relationship created throughout Plaintiff’s admission at LAC+USC Medical,
Defendant(s) had a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff to act with the utmost good
faith and within his best interests. 
(FAC ¶50.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendant(s) breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff as herein alleged throughout
his admission at LAC+USC Medical.  (FAC
¶51.)
Plaintiff alleges by virtue of Defendant(s) breaching their
fiduciary duty to Plaintiff as herein alleged throughout his admission at
LAC+USC Medical, Defendant(s) acted recklessly, oppressively, and intentionally
in breach of their duties as healthcare providers.  (FAC ¶52.)
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the
acts and omissions of Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to
Plaintiff as alleged herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to
severe injuries, pain, emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and
mental suffering.  (FAC ¶53.)
Plaintiff fails to allege the fiduciary duty arising from law that
subjects USC and County to liability under this cause of action.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
          Lack of Informed
Consent (5th COA)
A cause of action for failure to obtain informed consent requires
the following elements: (1) defendant performed a medical procedure on
plaintiff;
(2) defendant did not disclose to plaintiff the important
potential results and risks of and alternatives to the medical procedure; (3) a
reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the medical
procedure if that person had been adequately informed; and (4) plaintiff was
harmed by a result or risk that defendant should have explained.  (CACI 533.)
          Plaintiff alleges a
reasonable person would not have agreed to the care
and treatment that Plaintiff received had he been fully informed
of the results and/or risks of, and alternatives to it.  (FAC ¶55.)  Plaintiff alleges he would not have agreed had
he known he would suffer injuries as sustained. 
(FAC ¶55.)
          Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the acts and omissions of
Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to include the failure of
Defendant(s) to obtain informed consent, as alleged herein, Plaintiff was
harmed and suffered damages due to severe injuries, pain, emotional distress,
loss of dignity, and humiliation, and mental suffering.  (FAC ¶56.)
          Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges he was admitted to LAC+USC Medical for ulcer of the esophagus, but
Plaintiff fails to allege the medical procedure County and USC performed on him.  (See FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiff fails to allege County and USC did
not disclose to him the important potential results and risks of and
alternatives to the specific medical procedure. 
(See CACI 533.)  
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for lack of informed
consent is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act (6th COA)
A cause of action under the Unruh Civil Rights Act must allege the
following elements: (1) that defendant denied/aided or incited a denial of or discriminated
or made a distinction that denied full and equal accommodations/
advantages/ facilities/ privileges/ services to
plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was
its perception of plaintiff’s sex/ race/ color/ religion/ ancestry/ national
origin/ medical condition/ genetic information/ marital status/ sexual
orientation/ citizenship/ primary language/ immigration status/ other
actionable characteristic; (3) that plaintiff was harmed; and (4) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 3060.)
There are two causation elements: There must
be a causal link between the discriminatory intent and the adverse action (see
element 2), and there must be a causal link between the adverse action and the
harm (see element 4).  (CACI 3060,
Directions for Use.)
Whether a defendant is a “business establishment” is decided as an
issue of law.  (Rotary Club of Duarte
v. Board of Directors (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1050.)
          Plaintiff alleges as
a result of the aforementioned acts, omissions, and conduct as herein alleged, Defendant(s)
denied Plaintiff full and equal protection under the laws of the State of
California and the United States of America, in clear violation of Civil Code
§§51, et seq.  (FAC ¶58.)
Plaintiff alleges a motivating reason for the acts, omissions, and
conduct of Defendant(s), was their perception of, and more particularly,
discrimination toward, Plaintiff’s ethnicity or race as an African American.  (FAC ¶59.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts, omission, and conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff to suffer serious, physical,
psychological, mental, and emotional injuries. 
(FAC ¶60.)
          Plaintiff
fails to allege a causal link between the discriminatory intent and the adverse
action and a causal link between the adverse action and the harm.  (See CACI 3060, Directions for Use.)  Further, Plaintiff fails to allege USC and County
are “business establishments” as a matter of law.  (Rotary Club of Duarte, 178 Cal.App.3d
at pg. 1050.)
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (10th COA)
A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
(IIED) requires the following elements: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  (Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
1590, 1609.)  The first element requires
that the alleged conduct be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Cochran
v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494, citations omitted.)  A demurrer as to IIED may be sustained on the
ground that the defendant’s alleged conduct was not sufficiently outrageous.  (Id.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges conduct that is extreme and
outrageous with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress by way of his allegation that he was
tied down at all five points of his body for several days at a time and was
left to lay in his own urine and feces. 
(See FAC ¶20.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause of
action is overruled.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiffs’ 4th and 5th causes of action are not so uncertain that
Defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what counts or claims are directed against them.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as to the
10th cause of action. 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendants’ motion
to strike is denied as moot.
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  