  Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 25, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                     20STCV09554 
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Maria Lopez, et al. v. Matrix
Service, Inc., et al.                       .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTIES:               Defendant
Matrix Service, Inc.¿ 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant, Torrance
Refining Company, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           September 9, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1)
Ex Parte Application of defendant, matrix Service, Inc., for an order
compelling answers to Deposition Questions and Production of Documents by
Orlando Carbajal
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED.  A party is entitled to ask the verifier of
discovery responses if the verifier knows whether a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry were undertaken to ensure that all responsive documents in
the party’s possession, custody or control have been produced
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
This action concerns the
wrongful death of decedent Gamaliel Gonzalez, who was working inside an oil
storage tank at Torrance Refinery, when a jack stand his crew was using
malfunctioned under weight, causing parts of the jack stand to break apart
under high velocity, striking him in the head. Decedent Gamaliel Gonzalez was
employed by J.T. Thorpe, a company engaged in the business of oil tank
maintenance. 
 
On May 8, 2020,
Plaintiffs Maria Lopez and Martin Gonzalez filed the operative first amended
complaint for negligence (wrongful death) and strict liability against Matrix
Service, Inc. (“Matrix”) and Torrance Refining Company LLC (“TRC”). TRC owns
Torrance Refinery and the tank where the accident occurred. Matrix is alleged
to have worked on the design and manufacture of the jack stand that
malfunctioned and caused the accident. 
 
On September 17, 2020,
Plaintiffs Sonia Soto, individually and as successor in interest to The Estate
of Gamaliel Gonzalez, as well as Jayden Salas, Giancarlo Salas, and Christian
Gonzalez filed a complaint alleging various causes of action against Matrix and
TRC. 
 
On December 22, 2023,
Matrix notes that it served a Notice of Deposition of Orlando Carbajal and
Request for Production of Documents, which contained nine (9) separate document
requests. Matrix contends that through meet and confer processes and due to availability
of the parties, the deposition of Deponent continued to March 8, 2024. However,
Matrix argues that at no time did TORC object to the production of documents
contained in the Notie of Deposition for Deponent. 
 
On February 15, 2024, the
Court issued an order denying Matrix’s Motion to Issue Sanctions, in part, on
condition that TORC serve verifications for a variety of written discovery
responses that TORC had never verified. Matrix further notes that on February
28, 2024, pursuant to this Court’s order, TORC served verifications for a
variety of written discovery responses, all of which were verified by Deponent.
Furthermore, Matrix notes that at his deposition, Deponent confirmed that the
signatures on the verifications were his. 
 
However, despite this,
Matrix contends that on March 8, 2024, when the Deponent’s deposition
proceeded, TORC’s counsel refused to allow deponent to answer several questions
and, instead, instructed Deponent not to answer such questions. For example,
Matric notes the following back and forth during Deponent’s deposition: 
 
Q. For example in request for production 82 it asks for
TORC's policies procedures and policies in place at the time of the incident
relating to Torrance Refining Company's management with the use of compressed
air equipment on the premises. The further response essentially states that
there are no other documents other than what's been produced previously as
exhibits A through D. And my question you to is when you signed these
verifications did you review the documents that were produced as exhibits A
through D? 
 
MS. HARWELL: Mr. Watts, this was done with assistance of
legal counsel both in-house and external this is not an appropriate question
for Mr. Carbajal I'm going to instruct him not to answer.
 
 Q. I disagree. These
are discovery responses that have been verified and we have the right to ask
questions based on what that verification is based on. … 
 
Q. Just so confirm your instruction would be the same as to
every discovery request that I would ask him questions on? 
 
MS. HARWELL: Yes.
 
            Further,
Matrix argues that TORC’s counsel made clear that TORC would instruct the
witness not to answer any questions regarding the discovery requests that he
verified, such that Matrix’s counsel did not need to ask each individual
question that counsel intended to. Nonetheless, Matrix asserts that its counsel
asked several additional questions, which resulted in the same instruction not
to answer. After Matrix’s questions resulted in the same instruction not to
answer, Matrix notes that it then attempted to ask questions regarding the
document requests contained in the subject Notice of Deposition, but again,
Matrix contends that TORC’s counsel instructed Deponent not to answer such
question: 
 
Q. I'm showing you back what was previously marked as Exhibit
1 which was your notice of deposition we talked about the documents that were
requested in this document a little bit but I just want to make sure it's clear
for the record, with regard to these documents I know your counsel has taken
the position that all response ever [sic] documents have been produced in this
case. Did you yourself do anything to verify whether all response ever [sic]
documents to all requests for production of documents number one through nine
were produced in this case? 
 
MS. HARWELL: Calls for attorney work product, attorney-client
privilege and I’m going to instruct him not to answer. 
 
Q. Again did you talk to anybody -- talk to anybody other
than your attorneys or review any documents on your own or talked to anybody
other than your attorneys that may have reviewed documents to confirm whether
or not Torrance Refining Company has indeed produced all documents to these
requests? 
 
MS. HARWELL: Same objection. Same instruction. 
 
            On March 8,
2024, following the deposition, counsel for Matrix notes that they sent a
letter to counsel for TORC to meet and confer regarding TORC’s instruction to
deponent to not answer the questions posed at his deposition. Although Matrix
notes that counsel for TORC responded to the letter and the parties engaged in
further meet and confer emails, an agreement could not be reached and TORC
refused to put Deponent up for further deposition. As such, Matrix has filed
this ex parte motion in order for this Court to order TORC to reproduce the
Deponent to answer the answers he was instructed not to answer. 
 
            B.
Procedural 
 
            On
March 20, 2024, Defendant, Matrix, filed an ex parte application for an order
compelling answers to deposition questions and production of documents by
Orlando Carbajal. On March 20, 2024, Defendant, TORC filed an opposition. 
 
            On
March 21, 2024, this Court continued the hearing.  
 
¿II.ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
            Preliminarily, this Court notes that
it is not inclined to rule on this motion based on TORC’s “lack of urgency”
argument given the looming Motion for Summary Judgment Opposition. Instead,
because of said looming Motion for Summary Judgement Opposition, this Court
approached Matrix’s motion as if it were a regularly noticed motion. 
 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
A party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling a deponent to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, if the deponent fails to answer or produce such
information. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(a).) If  a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, the party
seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(a).)  If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (CCP § 2025.480(i).)  “This rule
applies to subpoenas for production of documents at a deposition and also to
business records subpoenas ....”  (Weil & Brown, ¶ 8:609.1 [citing
Code Civ. Proc, § 2025.480(b)].) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
The moving papers here show
that Deponent – who verified TORC’s discovery responses – refused to answer
questions at his deposition because he was instructed not to answer such
questions by his counsel. Matrix argues that such instructions were without
merit and a misuse of the discovery process.  Matrix contends that a “verification is “in
effect a declaration that the party has disclosed all information available to
[it].” (Dayo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) Further,
pursuant to Melendrez v. Superior Ct. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1343 (“Melendres”)
“[a]s a general matter, when an individual verifies discovery responses,
further discovery can be directed to that individual to determine the sources
of the initial response.” (Melendrez, supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at
1352.)
 
The court in Melendrez
addressed the situation regarding when an attorney verifies a responses as an officer
or agent of a corporate party and held that doing so “will constitute a limited
waiver of the attorney-client and work product privileges, during any
subsequent discovery from that attorney concerning the identity of the sources
of the information contained in the response.”  (Id. at 1351.) The
court in Melendrez found that “the reason for this waiver should be
obvious. As a general matter, when an individual verifies discovery responses,
further discovery can be directed to that individual to determine the sources
for the initial responses.”  (Id. at 1352.) Therefore, the Melendrez
court recognized that a party has the right to discover the sources of
responses from a corporation where an individual verifies the
response. The attorney client privilege protects communications, not the
sources that were searched in order to obtain it.  Moreover, Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.250 expressly waives the attorney-client privilege “during any
subsequent discovery from that attorney concerning the identity of the sources
of the information contained in the response,” which expressly recognizes
attorney client privilege does not apply to the identity of sources of
information.  It appears that Plaintiff merely seeks to identify the
sources of the documents produced in discovery, whether the deponent had
reviewed the documents prior to signing them, and how the deponent gained his
information and belief that the matters alleged in the discovery responses were
true. All of these inquiries seem to be permissible under Melendrez. 
It may well be that the corporate verifier here will testify that he does not
know or that he himself did not review the documents produced, but the instructions
not to answer were improper and the Court overrules those objections.
 
In Defendant TORC’s
opposition, they do not oppose the motion on its merits, but does so
procedurally. Here, as noted above, the Court understands that the ex parte
application is brought on very short and arguable untimely notice, but the Court
briefly continued the hearing to facilitate TORC’s written opposition and Court’s
consideration of the same.  With respect
to the opposition’s assertion of a lack of exigency, the March 28 date for
filing opposition to the pending MSJ provides that exigency, particularly since
the deposition of this witness was apparently postponed by TORC.  With respect to the fact that Matrix only attaches
the rough transcript rather than a certified transcript in final form, there is
no showing that the rough transcript fails to capture the nature of the questions and answers that are the subject of this motion.  With respect to the argument that the ex
parte application fails to state the  date on which Matrix seeks to schedule the
deposition, the Court will address that issue at the March 25 hearing.  TORC will be permitted to present oral
argument as to the substantive issues of why it instructed its Deponent not to
answer the questions about his verifications. 
 
However, because this
Matrix’s motion is in line with the precedent set in Melendrez, this
Court finds good cause to grant this motion, and require further deposition of
TORC’s deponent prior to the filing of Matrix’s motion for summary judgment
opposition being required to be filed. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Matrix’s
motion is tentatively GRANTED. 
¿¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿ 
 