  Case Number:  24STCP00607    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants illegally accessed
his email and social media accounts.
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff William Wade filed the
Complaint for (1) Invasion of Privacy, (2) Civil Harassment in Violation of
Code of Civil Procedure section 527.6, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (5) Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief against Does 1 through 20 (collectively, “Defendants”).
No Doe amendments have been filed and no Defendants have appeared yet.
On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for
limited-expedited discovery. 
On October 17, 2024, non-party Verizon Wireless
(Verizon) filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff William Wade moves for leave to engage in
limited and expedited discovery against non-party deponent, Verizon Wireless.
Decision
The motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff may serve or conduct
discovery against Verizon to obtain necessary information, but only to the
extent necessary to identify and locate the Doe Defendants. 
Legal Standard
“Subject to Sections 2025.270 and 2025.610, an oral
deposition may be taken as follows:… (b) The plaintiff may serve a deposition
notice without leave of court on any date that is 20 days after the service of
the summons on, or appearance by, any defendant. On motion with or without
notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant to a plaintiff leave to
serve a deposition notice on an earlier date.” Code Civ. Proc., section
2025.210, subd. (b). This 20-day hold applies also to subpoenas for production
of business records. (California Shellfish Inc. v. United Shellfish Co.
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 16, 20-23. The deposition methods available against a
party are also available against non-parties. Code Civ. Proc., section
2020.010.)
Discussion
The Court first notes that Plaintiff’s notice of motion
states Plaintiff moves for leave to engage in limited, expedited discovery
against non-party Verizon. However, the memorandum of points and authorities
cites statutes governing motions to compel and contains arguments that Verizon
was required to cooperate with Plaintiff’s discovery requests. The Court may
only consider the grounds stated in the notice of motion. (Kinda v.
Carpenter (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1277.) Because the notice of motion only
requests leave to engage in expedited discovery, the Court will not consider
Plaintiff’s arguments pertaining to a motion to compel.
A plaintiff may serve a deposition notice before the
expiration of the 20-day hold set forth in subdivision (b) of section 2025.210
of the Code of Civil Procedure upon a showing of good cause. Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.210, subd. (b). “[G]ood cause which must be shown should be such that will
satisfy an impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of
the inherent rights of the adversary.” (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Ct. In
& For Merced Cnty. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 388, superseded by statute on
other grounds in Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480.)
The court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause
for obtaining leave to serve discovery on Verizon before the expiration of the
20-day hold in subdivision (b) of section 2025.210 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. It is clear that Plaintiff needs information to identify and locate
the Doe Defendants in this action and that Verizon has at least some of this
information. (Compl., ¶¶ 3-18; Verizon Opp., pp.4-5; Salar Decl., ¶7.)
The Court notes that Verizon’s opposition largely
argues Plaintiff failed to follow the procedures set forth in Code Civ. Proc.,
section 1985.3 when he served a previous subpoena on Verizon. Additionally,
Verizon alleges the prior subpoena was overbroad. This motion only concerns
whether Plaintiff is permitted to seek discovery under Code Civ. Proc., section
2025.210. The Court is not addressing Plaintiff’s arguments pertaining to a
motion to compel. Therefore, the Court will not address Verizon’s arguments
about the validity of the prior subpoena.
Verizon alleges that Plaintiff has not established that
good cause outweighs the privacy rights of its consumers. Verizon argues that
it requires more than just an IP address to identify the Doe Defendants, but
also dates, times accurate to the second, the server’s time zone, and other
information to narrow down the search. If Verizon produced the identifying
information of subscribers using just the information provided in the Complaint
and the previous subpoena, the production would include information about
subscribers who are not connected to the conduct alleged in the Complaint. 
Again, the Court will not consider the validity of the
previous subpoena. The Court’s order granting Plaintiff leave to seek expedited
discovery only permits limited discovery necessary to identify and locate the Doe
Defendants. If Verizon objects to subpoenas served after this motion is
granted, Verizon is free to file a motion to quash the subpoena.
Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS the motion,
but only to the extent necessary for Plaintiff to identify and locate the Doe
Defendants. To the extent Plaintiff seeks an order from the court compelling Verizon
to comply with the previously served subpoena, the court declines to grant any
relief.
Conclusion
The motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff may serve or conduct
discovery against Verizon to obtain necessary information, but only to the
extent necessary to identify and locate the Doe Defendants. 