  Case Number:  20SMCV01622    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Goosen v. Draz et
al., Case No. 20SMCV01622 (Consolidated with 21SMCV00332)
Hearing Date November
9, 2023
Defendants
Goosen’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
 
Plaintiff Goosen sued
tenant defendants Draz and Draz Investment Group for unlawful detainer. After
Draz vacated, Goosen’s remaining claims are for waste and breach of lease. In
the second action, plaintiff Draz alleges the Goosens breached the lease by
failing to perform improvements and repairs Draz allegedly paid for. The
Goosens move for summary judgment.
 
Declaratory Relief

Declaratory relief
is a prospective remedy which exists to declare future rights rather than to
redress past wrongs. Canova v. Trustees of Imperial Irrigation Dist.
Employee Pension Plan (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1497.
 
Draz requests a
declaration that he is entitled to a “ten-year amortization period to use the
property in its business as intended and indicated in paragraph 42 of the lease[.]”
SAC ¶9. The Goosens argue Draz’s vacating of the premises ending any ongoing
relationship between the parties. 
 
A motion for
summary adjudication can resolve “one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty.” Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §437c(f)(1). The request
for declaratory relief is an element of the breach of lease and unjust
enrichment claims; it is not an independent cause of action, affirmative
defense, claim for damages or an issue of duty. Therefore, it is not subject to
summary adjudication. DENIED.
 
Statute of
Limitations 
A statute of
limitations “begins to run when a plaintiff has suffered damage from a wrongful
act.” Lyles v. State of California (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 281, 286. Once
the damage is such that the cause of action accrues, additional damage from the
same wrong does not alter the accrual of the cause of action. Id. Under
the continuing violation doctrine, a statute of limitations for a series of
wrongs accrues “for all of them upon commission of the last of them[.]” Aryeh
v. Canon Business Systems (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192. Under the
continuous accrual theory, “a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as
each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be
partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the
appliable limitations period.” Id.
 
The Goosens argue the
four-year statute of limitations on Draz’s breach of lease claim began running
March 1, 2016, when Draz assumed control of the premises and allegedly discovered
they were uninhabitable. Draz’s complaint was filed February 17, 2021, so the
Goosens argue the breach of lease claim is time-barred. Draz argues the statute
of limitations has not run because the Goosens’ failure to remedy habitability
violations are subject to the continuing violation or continuous accrual
doctrine. 
 
Habitability
issues present when Draz took possession in 2016 constitute a single wrong, not
a continuing series of wrongs. To the extent the property had habitability
issues in 2016, any breach of lease due to those issues was complete in 2016.
Per Lyles, accumulation of additional damages over time due to that
original breach do not toll or extend the statute. Draz cites no authority
indicating the continuing violation doctrine or continuous accrual theory
applies. As habitability issues existing in 2016 constitute a single violation,
the burden shifts to Draz to show a material issue as to the statute of
limitations. 
 
Draz presents
evidence from his own deposition that at least some of the habitability issues forming
the basis of his breach of lease claim occurred “during the pandemic.” Draz
exhibit 3-3:17. A reasonable interpretation of the phrase “during the pandemic”
is that these alleged breaches occurred between 2020 through 2022. Habitability
breaches “during the pandemic” fall within the four-year statute of limitations
period, so are not time-barred. There is a triable issue of material fact as to
whether some of the alleged breaches of the warranty of habitability fell
within the statute of limitations period. DENIED. 
 
Quasi-Contract 
As a matter of
law, a quasi-contract cause of action is unavailable where the parties admit an
express contract governs the parties’ relations. California Medical Ass’n.
v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 151,
172. A plaintiff may plead inconsistent claims alleging both existence of an enforceable
agreement and a quasi-contract claim. A pleading that includes inconsistent
contract and quasi-contract claims must include allegations denying the
existence or enforceability of the agreement. Klein v. Chevron USA, Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1389. 
 
The Goosens argue
the second cause of action for unjust enrichment is quasi-contractual, so
inconsistent with the breach of contract claim. They argue the SAC fails to
fulfill the Klein requirement that an unjust enrichment cause of action
pleaded alongside a breach of contract claim must deny the existence or
enforceability of the agreement.
 
Draz’s first and
second causes of action are mutually exclusive as pleaded under Klein. However,
this is in substance a pleading issue (i.e. a motion for judgment on the
pleadings or demurrer), not a motion for summary judgment. As such, summary
judgment is DENIED.