  Case Number:  23PSCV03944    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  H John
Roe L.S. v. California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, 
Case
No. 23PSCV03944
 ORDER
ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. The Motion to Strike is DENIED as MOOT.

I.        Background 
Plaintiff
John Roe L.S. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:

Plaintiff, a homosexual man, was sexually, verbally,
and physically abused for years by other inmates and by employees of the
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation Division (“CDCR”),
including his parole officer, while under the CDCR’s custody, care and/or
control.
On March 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC” or the “Operative
Complaint”), asserting causes of action against CDCR and Does 1-50 for:
1.       Civil Rights Violation (42 U.S.C. § 1983);
2.       Negligence;
3.       Negligent Hiring, Supervision and
Retention;
4.       Sexual Battery (Civil Code § 1708.5);
5.       Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress;
6.       Sexual Harassment (Civil Code § 51.9);
7.       Violation of Bane Act (Civil Code § 52.1);
and
8.       Gender Violence (Civil Code § 52.4). 
Pending
before the Court is CDCR’s demurrer and motion to strike.
II.      Legal Standard 
A.       Demurrer 
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[citations omitted].)
B.       Motion to Strike
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
III.     Discussion 
CDCR
demurs to the second through seventh causes of action in the Operative
Complaint, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e), on the basis that they each
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. CDCR also moves, per Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 431.10(b), 435 and 436, to
strike out portions of the Operative Complaint.
A.       Procedural Defect 
At
the outset, the Court notes that CDCR has improperly combined its demurrer and
motion to strike into one motion, instead of filing a separate demurrer and
motion to strike as contemplated by the Code. The Court admonishes CDCR in this
regard but proceeds to the merits as this defect does not prejudice Plaintiff.
B.       Merits
Turning
to the merits, CDCR asserts that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred by Code of
Civil Procedure § 340.16(a)(1), which provides that “[i]n any civil action for
recovery of damages suffered as a result of sexual assault, where the assault
occurred on or after the plaintiff’s 18th birthday, the time for commencement
of the action shall be . . . “[w]ithin 10 years from the date of the last act,
attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an act, of sexual assault
against the plaintiff.”
CDCR
acknowledges that subdivision (e) of Code of Civil Procedure section
340.16(a)(1) revives certain expired claims. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 340.16(e)
[“Notwithstanding any other law, any claim seeking to recover damages suffered
as a result of a sexual assault that occurred on or after the plaintiff’s 18th
birthday that would otherwise be barred before January 1, 2023, solely because
the applicable statute of limitations has or had expired, is hereby revived,
and a cause of action may proceed if already pending in court on January 1,
2023, or, if not filed by that date, may be commenced between January 1, 2023,
and December 31, 2023.”].) Specifically, this subdivision revives claims alleging
all of the following elements: “(A) The plaintiff was sexually assaulted; (B) One
or more entities are legally responsible for damages arising out of the sexual
assault; and (C) The entity or entities, including, but not limited to, their
officers, directors, representatives, employees, or agents, engaged in a cover
up or attempted a cover-up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual
assault by an alleged perpetrator or such abuse.” (Id.)
CDCR
argues that subdivision (e) is not applicable here. It first argues that CDCR is
not an “entity” as defined by the statute. (Dem., 4:16-17.) The Court disagrees.
“As
with any case involving statutory interpretation, [the Court’s] fundamental
task is to determine the legislative intent to effectuate the law’s purpose.” (Ibarra
v. Chuy & Sons Labor, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 874, 882.) In doing
so, courts “look first to the statutory language and give the words their usual
and ordinary meaning.” (Rhonda S. v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
(2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 643, 649.) Courts “construe those words in context,
giving them a plain and commonsense meaning unless the statute specifically
defines the words to give them a special meaning.” (Turo, Inc. v. Superior
Court of City and County of San Francisco (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 517, 521
[quotations and citation omitted].) “Courts appropriately refer to dictionary
definitions to ascertain the ordinary, usual meaning of a word.” (Id.)
In
giving the statutory language its plain and commonsense meaning, courts
“examine that language, not in isolation, but in the context of the statutory
framework as a whole to discern its scope and purpose and to harmonize the
various parts of the enactment.” (Busker v. Wabtec Corp. (2021) 11 Cal.5th
1147, 1156.) “Ordinarily, where the Legislature uses a different word or phrase
in one part of a statute than it does in other sections or in a similar statute
concerning a related subject, it must be presumed that the Legislature intended
a different meaning.” (Campbell v. Zolin (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 489,
497.)
Section
340.16, subdivision (e)(4)(B) defines an “entity” as “a sole proprietorship,
partnership, limited liability company, corporation, association, or other
legal entity.” The phrase “legal entity” is not defined, which indicates that
the Legislature intentionally did not give it any special meaning.
The
Court determines that CDCR is a “legal entity” within the meaning of Section
340.16, subdivision (e)(4)(B). The term “legal entity” encompasses both public
and private entities, including state governmental agencies. The term “legal
entity” is defined by Merriam-Webster as “an entity (as a corporation or labor
union) having under the law rights and responsibilities and especially the
capacity to sue and be sued.” (Merriam-Webster, legal entity,
Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary,
https://www.merriam-webster.com/legal/legal%20entity [as of Sept. 26, 2024].)
CDCR is an entity under this definition.
Further,
the fact that the Legislature used “public entity” elsewhere in Section 340.16
(specifically, in subdivision (c)(2)(C)) does not, in the Court’s view,
“indicat[e] an intent [by the Legislature] to distinguish between public
entities, such as CDCR, and the private enterprises listed in subdivision
(e)(4)(B)” (Dem., 7:8-11); rather, the converse is true. The Legislature
plainly limited subdivision (c)(2)(C) to claims against nonpublic entities. If
the Legislature intended to make such a distinction in subdivision (e)(4)(B) it
easily could have done so.
CDCR
next argues that subdivision (e) is not applicable here, because Plaintiff “has
not alleged that CDCR staff engaged in a cover up of any instance of sexual
assault that occurred prior to his rape by Mr. Perez.” (Dem., 5:13-14.) The
Court agrees. Under Section 340.16, subdivision (e)(4)(A), “cover up” is
defined as “a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault
that incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating
to a sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,
including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or
confidentiality agreements.”
“[N]othing
in the language of [Section 340.16] requires that the alleged cover up involve a
previous instance of sexual assault by the same individual who later assaulted
the plaintiff. The statutory language requires only that the plaintiff allege a
cover up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by ‘an alleged perpetrator of such abuse.’ (§
340.16(e)(2)(C).)” (Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR Enterprises, Inc. (2023)
93 Cal.App.5th 1199, 1212.)
Plaintiff contends
that he alleged in Paragraphs 50 and 51 that CDCR engaged in a cover up of the
previous instances of abuse he suffered while incarcerated at Folsom State
Prison. (Opp., 9:25-26.) The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged only that
“Mr. Perez made no effort to report” Plaintiff’s allegations of sexual abuse.
(Complaint, ¶ 51.)
Accordingly, CDCR’s
demurrer is sustained. CDCR’s request to strike out portions of the Operative
Complaint is denied as moot, based on the ruling made on the demurrer. The
Court will grant Plaintiff 20 days’ leave to amend the Operative Complaint.