 Case Number:  23SMCV00517    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  205 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO VACATE ENTRY OF DEFAULTBACKGROUNDThis is theft of trade secrets case. Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales. consulting and IT services. Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services. Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients for their competitive business. Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel.Plaintiff served Defendants by substitute service on February 8, 2023. Service is deemed completed on the 10th day after mailing, which is February 19, 2023. Defendants’ response to the Complaint was due by March 21, 2023. Defendants failed to respond. Accordingly, default was entered against the Entity Defendants on April 27, 2023 and against Baboli on May 2, 2023.This hearing is on Defendants’ motion to set aside the entry of default. Defendants argue that (1) default was taken as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect because Baboli mistakenly believed the parties were actively finalizing a settlement agreement and therefore Defendants did not need to respond to the complaint, (2) Defendants were “lulled into a false sense of security after [Baboli] initially consulted with the firm later retained by Plaintiff only for that firm to reveal confidences to Plaintiff unbeknownst to him,” and (3) the default entered against Baboli is void because Plaintiff failed to properly serve him at his personal residence, and instead effected substitute service at a mailbox facility.LEGAL STANDARD“Compliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. Thus, a default judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void. Under section 473, subdivision (d),the court may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a matter of law, due to improper service.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)“When a court lacks jurisdiction in a fundamental sense, an ensuing judgment is void, and thus vulnerable to direct or collateral attack at any time.” (Strathvale Holdings v. E.B.H. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1241, 1249 (trial court properly granted motion for relief from default and default judgment based on CCP §473(d) where defendants argued there was no valid service of process and they lacked minimum contacts with California).)A defendant may therefore move to set aside a default and default judgment based on improper service and lack of personal jurisdiction under Code Civ. Proc. §473(d). (Id. at 1250.) A defendant need not bring a motion to quash prior to or in conjunction with a motion for relief from default and default judgment pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §473(d). (Id.)It is always the plaintiff’s burden to establish the existence of jurisdiction. (Id. at 1250-1251; Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.) Thus, even though defendant is the moving party on a motion to quash or a motion to set aside a void judgment under CCP §473(d), the burden is on plaintiff to establish proper service. (Dill, 24 Cal.App.4th at 1439-1440.) A valid proof of service gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of valid service. (Id. at 1441-1442.) But the presumption may be overcome by contrary evidence. (City of Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.App.2d 726, 731.)The statutory requirements of service are construed to uphold jurisdiction, rather than defeat it. (See Pasadena Medi-Center Associates v. Sup.Ct. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 773, 778.) As long as the defendant receives actual notice of the lawsuit, substantial compliance with the Code provisions governing service of summons will generally be held sufficient. (Id.).REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEDefendants seek judicial notice of (1) the articles of incorporation of Plaintiff, (2) the statement of information of Plaintiff, (3) the articles of incorporation of Beverly Hills IT, (4) the articles of incorporation of Beverly Hills IT Services, (5) the statement of information of Beverly Hills IT Services, (6) the resignation of position of officer executed by Issac Boudaie, and (7) the minute order of July 21, 2023, filed in a Civil Restraining Order action entitled Kourosh Boudaie v. Mostafa Baboli, Case No. 23STRO03113. Defendants fail to explain the relevance of any of these documents, and accordingly, the Court declines to take judicial notice of them.EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSThe Court overrules Plaintiff’s Objection Nos. 1-3 and sustains Objection No. 4 to the Supplemental Declaration of Mostafa Baboli.DISCUSSIONThe Court first addresses Baboli’s claim that he was lulled into believing Plaintiff’s counsel, Novian & Novian LLC (“Novian”), was actually representing him. Novian is a client of Plaintiff, and Baboli served as the lead IT support for Novian. Baboli claims he contacted Novian seeking legal advice about his employment-related claims against Plaintiff and its officer, Issac Boudaie. Baboli then claims Novian disclosed to Plaintiff that Baboli was intending to sue Plaintiff. On January 19, 2023, Novian set up a meeting between the parties to attempt to informally resolve the dispute. At this meeting, Novian disclosed it had been retained by Plaintiff to defend against Baboli’s employment claims. Plaintiff disputes this version of events. Plaintiff claims Novian repeatedly advised Baboli during his initial outreach and later at the January 19, 2023 meeting that Novian had not agreed to represent him. In any event, these facts are ultimately irrelevant to this motion. Whatever confusion Defendants may have had about the role of Novian, under their own version of events, Baboli knew by January 19, 2023 that Novian was representing Plaintiff, well in advance of the March 21, 2023 deadline torespond to the complaint. Baboli’s initial confusion as to the role of Novian simply does not explain why Defendants failed to timely respond to the complaint.The Court next addresses Defendants’ claim they failed to respond because they believed a settlement had been reached. The parties dispute whether a settlement had been reached. Plaintiff contends the settlement discussions were ongoing, while Defendants claim an actual settlement was reached on March 2, 2023. Regardless of which version of events the Court accepts, there is no dispute Plaintiff warned Defendants that Plaintiff expected Defendants to file a responsive pleading even while the parties were discussing settlement. On March 29, 2023, Novian emailed Baboli stating that “The responsive deadline for all 3 defendants is significantly past due. As a courtesy, we will give you until Friday, March 31, 2023 to cause a responsible pleading to be filed on behalf of each defendant. If you do not, we will have no choice but to seek entry of defaults against your companies and against you from the Court.” (Ex. C to Kandel Decl.) Baboli acknowledges he received this email. “[T]he negotiation of a possible settlement does not excuse the failure to proceed with due diligence in the filing of pleadings, absent some understanding that pleadings need not be filed while negotiations are in process.” (Turley v. Turley (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 169, 173.) There was no understanding here that a responsive pleading need not be filed. To the contrary, Novian clearly and explicitly warned Baboli that it would seek a default on behalf of Plaintiff if no responsive pleading was filed. Baboli’s decision to ignore this warning was not the fault of Plaintiff or its counsel and cannot be deemed a mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, as contemplated by Code Civ. Proc. §473(b).Lastly, Defendants argue that Baboli was not properly served. The proof of service filed by Plaintiff states that Baboli, on February 8, 2023, was served by substitute service at a mailbox facility located at 269 S. Beverly Dr. Suite 912, Beverly Hills, California 90212. The proof of service is signed by a registered California process server under penalty of perjury. Evid. Code §647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a rebuttable presumption of proper service. (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)This rebuttable presumption shifts the burden to Baboli to produce evidence showing that he was improperly served. Baboli argues that substitute service was improper because no attempts were made to serve him personally at his home address, which he claims was known to Plaintiff. The Court credits Baboli’s declaration that his personal address was known to Plaintiff because it was stated on the promissory note, and Boudaie (Plaintiff’s officer) had visited Baboli at his home. (Baboli Supp. Decl. ¶¶2-3.) It is undisputed that Plaintiff did not attempt personal service at Baboli’s personal address, and therefore, substitute service was improper. (Bonita Packing Co. v. O'Sullivan (C.D.Cal. 1995) 165 F.R.D. 610, 613-614 (substitute service at a private post office box was improper, where there is an alternative, better means of service).)The Court's determination that Baboli was not properly served is consistent with the general law regarding default judgments. The law does not favor defaults; therefore, any doubts as to whether a party is in default should be decided in favor of the defaulting party. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233.)Given the foregoing, the Court vacates the default as to Baboli but denies the motion to vacate as to the Entity Defendants.CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES IN PART and GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motion to vacate entry of default.DATED: November 2, 2023___________________________Edward B. Moreton, Jr.Judge of the Superior Court