  Case Number:  19SMCV02073    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   GEORGE KOPEK, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  BAGRAM MARDIROSSIAN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  19SMCV02073     Hearing Date:  November 2, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFFS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION AGAINST DEFENDANT    CASA GATEWAY HOMEOWNERS    ASSOCIATION     MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiffs Toni Kopek and Richard S. Lee  RESPONDING PARTY:  Defendant Casa Gateway Homeowners Association   BACKGROUND This case involves a dispute over parking spaces.  Plaintiffs George C. Kopek, Toni Kopek and Richard Lee live in a condominium building in Pacific Palisades and claim ownership of two parking spaces, G114 and G116.  They contend Defendants Bagram and Susanna Mardirossian are illegally occupying the spaces.  They have also sued their homeowners association, Casa Gateway Homeowners Association (“HOA”), for failing to enforce bylaws and a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&R’s).   Their complaint alleges claims for ejectment, preliminary injunction, trespass, nuisance, quiet title and enforcement of “governing documents”.   The HOA was named in two causes of action: eleventh cause of action for failure to enforce governing documents, and twelfth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties.   This hearing is on Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of six issues: (1) HOA owes a duty to Plaintiffs pursuant to the Davis Stirling Act to enforce governing documents, (2) HOA owes fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs arising from its governing documents and statutory requirements, (3) there are no triable issues of material fact that HOA breached its duty to enforce governing documents by failing to follow reasonable procedures in response to Plaintiffs’ September 17, 2018 HOA Complaint, (4) there are no triable issues of material fact that HOA breached its duty to enforce governing documents by unreasonably refusing to make a determination whether the Mardirossians violated CC&R 8.2 subsection which states “Parking areas may not be used for storage, living, recreational or business purposes” and CC&R 8.3 which states “Each Owner shall comply with all the requirements of the local or state health authorities with respect to the occupancy and use of a residence,” (5) there are no triable issues of material fact that the HOA breached its duty to enforce “governing documents” by unreasonably refusing to make a determination that the Mardirossians violated CC&R 8.2 which states “Vehicles owned, operated or within the control of an Owner … shall be parked in the garage or assigned carport parking space(s) of such Owner” and (6) there are no triable issues of material fact that HOA breached its fiduciary duties in failing to reasonably respond to Plaintiffs’ September 17, 2018 complaint to HOA.     REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Plaintiffs request judicial notice of (1) a condominium plan for Casa Gateway recorded on July 29, 1988 as Instrument Number 88-1025614 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County, California; (2) an amended condominium plan recorded on November 10, 1988 as Instrument Number 88-1819293 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County, California; (3) City of Los Angeles Agreement Number 68451, recorded on September 8, 1988 as Document Number 88-1434172, in the official records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office; and (4) Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for HOA, Recording 88-1769021.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Evid. Code §§452(c), 452(h) and 453.   LEGAL STANDARD A motion for¿summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an¿affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of¿duty.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Minor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67).   A plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish a claim or negate an affirmative defense.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists.  (Id.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) DISCUSSION Plaintiffs have raised six issues, only two of which are appropriate for summary adjudication.  Four of the issues (Issue Nos. 3-6) relate to liability, i.e., whether the HOA breached its fiduciary and statutory duties.  A¿summary adjudication motion cannot resolve only¿liability and leave damages undecided.  “[T]here is no legal basis for a plaintiff's motion for¿summary adjudication on¿liability only. …” (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 244.)¿ As to the other two issues relating to HOA’s duties, the Court disagrees with Plaintiffs that there is no triable issue the HOA owes Plaintiffs a duty to enforce the governing documents including the CC&R’s.  HOA has admitted in their answer that they are a “nonprofit mutual benefit corporation organized and existing under the laws of California … and formed under the Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act” (the “Act”).  The Act imposes statutory duties on HOA to enforce CC&R’s and other governing documents.  (Civ. Code §§ 4100 et seq., 5975.)   Section 5975 provides that the “covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable servitudes, unless unreasonable and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all owners of separate interests in the development.”  Section 5975 also provides that a “governing document other than the declaration may be enforced … by owners of a separate interest against the association.”   “Governing documents” means the “declaration and any other documents, such as by laws, operating rules … which govern the operation of the common interest development or association.”  (Civ. Code § 4150.)  “Operating rule” means “a regulation adopted by the Board that applies generally to the management and operation of the common interest development or the conduct of the business and affairs of the association.”  (Civ. Code § 4340.) Here, Plaintiff seeks enforcement of the following governing documents and operating rules:   CC&R 8.2 states “… vehicles owned, operated or within the control of the Owner or of a resident of such Owner’s Unit shall be parked in the garage or assigned carport parking space(s) of such owner to the extent of the space available.”  (Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) No. 5.)   CC&R 8.2(b) states: “Parking areas may not be used for storage, living, recreational or business purposes.”  (UMF No. 6.)   CC&R 8.3 states: “Each Owner shall comply with all of the requirements of the local or state health authorities and with all other government authorities with respect to the occupancy and use of a Residence.”  (UMF No. 8.)           Rule and Regulation VI (approved by Board on 4-30-2002) states “Garage Spaces must be maintained in accordance with the requirements of the CC&Rs, paragraph 8.2” and “Owners requiring the construction of enclosed storage shelving for their garages: (a) Must obtain the approval of the BoD for this construction and for the plan for that construction prior to undertaking it.”  (UMF No. 9.) Rule and Regulation III (approved by Board on 4-30-2022) states “only residents are permitted to park in their assigned garage/carport spaces.”  (UMF No. 10) Parking Rules & Regulations (dated 11-01-1991) states “Parking areas shall be used for authorized vehicles only”, “Parking areas may not be used for storage, living, recreational or business purposes,” “Garages must be free of all debris, household storage, trash, newspapers, recycling, mattresses, flammable/noxious materials or solutions, etc.”  (UMF No. 14.) The HOA first argues there is nothing in these rules and regulations that say they are an enforceable governing document pursuant to the Davis Stirling Act.  While that may be so, it is not determinative of whether they are governing documents.  As Plaintiffs argue, they fall within the definition of “governing documents” and “operating rules” as defined under Civ. Code §§  4150 and 4340.  They are rules which govern the “management and operation of the common interest development or the conduct of the business and affairs of the association.” The HOA further argues that its counsel advised it that the CC&R’s do not authorize the HOA to determine real property ownership interests where the ownership is disputed between condominium owners, as it is here.  But counsel’s advice is not determinative of the issue of duty, particularly where as here the HOA does not explain the basis for that advice and how it is supported by an interpretation of the governing documents and operating rules.   Lastly, the HOA argues that it has the discretion on whether or not to enforce the rules and regulations, and accordingly, there is a disputed issue as to whether it has a duty.  Parking Rule 8.2 states “the Board shall determine, in its discretion, whether there is noncompliance with parking and vehicular restrictions, herein.”  (Emphasis added.)  This creates a triable issue as to whether the HOA was obligated to enforce the rules and regulations.  Accordingly, the Court declines to summarily adjudicate the issue of duty.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 2, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 