 Case Number:  SS029337    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Respondents
Paul Kambur and Kambur Construction Group, Inc.’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award is DENIED.
 
Petitioners
Zalman Nemtzov and Zalman N., Inc.’s Petition
to Confirm Arbitration Award Against Paul Kambur and Kambur Construction Group,
Inc. is GRANTED.
 
Petitioners
Zalman Nemtzov and Zalman N., Inc. shall prepare, serve, and submit a proposed
judgment as per statute.
 
Moving parties to
give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
Petitioners Zalman Nemtzov and Zalman N.,
Inc. (“Petitioners”) petition the Court for an order confirming the arbitration
award dated July 13, 2023, which awarded Petitioners the total sum of
$318,444.65, consisting of $98,750 for foundation work provided to Respondents
Paul Kambur and Kambur Construction Group, Inc. (“Kambur Construction”)
(collectively “Respondents”), $95,000 for a violation of Business and
Professions Code section 7108.5, attorney fees of $105,000, and legal costs of
$19,694.65. Respondents petition the Court to vacate the same award. The Court
notes that Respondents have filed a Notice to Appear at Hearing seeking to
require Petitioner Zalman Nemtzov to testify as a witness at this hearing. This
request is DENIED, as the Court does not require further testimony to resolve
the pending motions. (See Metis
Development LLC v. Bohacek (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 679, 689 [petition to
compel arbitration may be decided “upon declarations or, if necessary, live
testimony”].)
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
Kambur Construction requests judicial
notice of eight court records in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.  20SMCV01191. Kambur Construction’s request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). However, the
Court notes that it may “only take judicial notice of the truth of facts
asserted in documents such as orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law,
and judgments.” (Day v. Sharp (1975)
50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.)
 
Legal Standard
“Any party to an arbitration in which an
award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “The petition shall name as respondents all
parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound
by the arbitration award.” (Ibid.)
The petition must be filed and served no less than ten days and no more than 100
days after the award is served on the party seeking confirmation. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.)
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1286.2, subdivision (a), provides that the trial court
shall vacate an arbitration award if it determines any of the following:
 
(1) The award was
procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means.
 
(2) There was
corruption in any of the arbitrators.
 
(3) The rights of the
party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator.
 
(4) The arbitrators
exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.
 
(5) The rights of the
party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to
postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the
refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy or by
other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title.
 
(6) An arbitrator
making the award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time required for
disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator was then
aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds specified in Section
1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or
herself as required by that provision. However, this subdivision does not apply
to arbitration proceedings conducted under a collective bargaining agreement
between employers and employees or between their respective representatives.
 
Until it is either confirmed or vacated,
an arbitration award “has the same force and effect as a contract in writing
between the parties to the arbitration.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.6.) On the
other hand, once confirmed, “judgment shall be entered in conformity therewith”
with “the same force and effect as, and is subject to all the provisions of law
relating to, a judgment in a civil action of the same jurisdictional
classification.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1285.4
requires the petition to set forth (1) the substance of the arbitration
agreement if a complete copy is not attached, (2) the names of the arbitrators,
and (3) the arbitration award and the arbitrator’s opinion if a complete copy
is not attached. Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4, subdivision (a),
provides that “[a] copy of the petition” to correct an arbitration award, “a
written notice of the time and place for the hearing,” “and any other papers
upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided in the
arbitration agreement.” In the event that the arbitration agreement does not
provide a method of service, the petition must be served pursuant to one of the
methods set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4, subdivision (b) or
(c). 
 
Analysis
On July
13, 2023, the arbitrator issued his arbitration award finding that Respondents
owed Petitioners a total of $318,444.65, which consisted of $98,750 for
foundation work provided to Respondents, $95,000 for a violation of Business
and Professions Code section 7108.5, and payment of legal fees and costs of
$105,000 and $19,694.65. (Pet. To Confirm, Boji Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A.)
 
Respondents
move to vacate the arbitration award on the ground that Zalman N., Inc. has never had a contractor’s license, such that no
judgment can be entered in his favor for construction work, Paul Kambur was not
a party to the underlying agreement with Zalman N., Inc., Zalman Nemtzov was
not a party to the subcontract upon which the award was based, and workers
employed by Petitioners lacked workers’ compensation insurance. Petitioners
move to confirm the award and have judgment entered in their favor in the
amount of $318,444.65.
 
Put
simply, Respondents are seeking a second bite at the apple in their petition,
which is not a proper basis for vacating an arbitration award because, as
detailed above, Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2, subdivision (a), provides
only limited grounds for vacating an award. It is axiomatic that “[n]either the
merits of the controversy nor the sufficiency of the evidence to support the
arbitrator’s award are matters for judicial review,” and it is not this Court’s
place to “substitute its judgment for that of the arbitrators.” (Morris v.
Zuckerman (1968) 69 Cal.2d 686, 691.) Insofar as Respondents present new
arguments and new evidence here, this is an improper basis to vacate the
arbitration award because Respondents had ample opportunity to present these
arguments and evidence to the arbitrator, and it is not this Court’s role to
consider new arguments and evidence where the matter was properly sent to
arbitration. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.823(a) [“All evidence must be
taken in the presence of the arbitrator and all parties, except where any of
the parties has waived the right to be present or is absent after due notice of
the hearing”].)
 
The
filings in the arbitration indicate that both Respondents were identified as
parties to the arbitration, with both Petitioners, and Respondents made no
objection to the inclusion of Zalman N., Inc. or Paul
Kambur as a party to allow the arbitrator to consider whether their inclusion
was proper, and it is not this Court’s role to accept new evidence on this
issue where it was available to Respondents at the time of arbitration.
Moreover, where Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2, subdivision (a), sets
forth limited grounds upon which the trial court may vacate an arbitration
award, the Court lacks a basis to determine that the inclusion of a party,
where they were identified as a party to the arbitration, supports a conclusion
that the award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means; there
was corruption in the arbitrator; the rights of the party were substantially
prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator; the arbitrator exceeded his
power; the arbitrator refused to postpone the hearing despite sufficient cause;
or the arbitrator failed to disclose grounds for disqualification.
 
Insofar
as Respondents argue that Zalman N., Inc. has never had a contractor’s license and that the workers employed by Petitioners lacked workers’
compensation insurance, these were issues for the arbitrator to
consider, not the Court reviewing the award. Further, simply stating the
arbitrator “ignored” prior rulings does not make it so when the Court lacks any
evidence in this respect. Accordingly, Respondents
Paul Kambur and Kambur Construction Group, Inc.’s Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award is DENIED. Petitioners
Zalman Nemtzov and Zalman N., Inc.’s Petition
to Confirm Arbitration Award Against Paul Kambur and Kambur Construction Group,
Inc. is GRANTED. Petitioners Zalman Nemtzov and Zalman N., Inc. shall
prepare, serve, and submit a proposed judgment as per statute.