  Case Number:  20STCV04316    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 3, 2020, Plaintiff Eusebio Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Bigge Crane and Rigging Co. (“Bigge”) and Does 1-50 for
negligence. 
On
March 25, 2020, Bigge filed an answer. 
On
June 24, 2020, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Mr. Crane,
Inc. as Doe 21 (“Mr. Crane”). 
On
July 27, 2020, Mr. Crane filed an answer. 
On
July 13, 2023, Mr. Crane filed a motion for a protective order to be heard on
September 29, 2023.  On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
September 25, 2023, Mr. Crane filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Mr.
Crane requests that the Court grant a protective order preventing the
deposition of Mr. Crane’s executives, Robert Schiller (“Schiller”) and Andy
Steinberg (“Steinberg”). 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order.  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: 
“(1) That the deposition not be taken at all. 
* * *
 (g) If the motion for a protective order is denied in
whole or in part, the court may order that the deponent provide or permit the
discovery against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions
that are just. 
(h) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subds. (a), (b)(1), (g), (h).) 
“[W]hen
a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president or other official at the
highest level of corporate management, and that official moves for a protective
order to prohibit the deposition, the trial court should first determine
whether the plaintiff has shown good cause that the official has unique or
superior personal knowledge of discoverable information. If not, as will
presumably often be the case in the instance of a large national or
international corporation, the trial court should issue the protective order
and first require the plaintiff to obtain the necessary discovery through less
intrusive methods. These would include interrogatories directed to the
high-level official to explore the state of his or her knowledge or involvement
in plaintiff's case; the deposition of lower level employees with appropriate
knowledge and involvement in the subject matter of the litigation; and the
organizational deposition of the corporation itself, which will require the
corporation to produce for deposition the most qualified officer or employee to
testify on its behalf as to the specified matters to be raised at the
deposition. [Citation.] Should these avenues be exhausted, and the
plaintiff make a colorable showing of good cause that the high-level official
possesses necessary information to the case, the trial court may then lift the
protective order and allow the deposition to proceed.”  (Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1289 (“Liberty Mutual”).)  
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
alleges that he fell while working at a construction site as an employee of Earthscapes,
which provided services to Mr. Crane on site.  At the time of the accident, Plaintiff was
assigned to assist Mr. Crane’s certified rigger and signalman, Mike Dillard
(“Dillard”), by hooking large bags of soil to the crane rigging so they could
be hoisted to upper floors. Plaintiff contends that he lacked the
qualifications to provide this assistance because he was not a certified
rigger.  He alleges that one of the bags
knocked him off a flatbed trailer onto a metal swing stage, injuring him. 
Plaintiff
took the deposition of Matthew Fruhling, Mr. Crane’s “person most qualified” regarding
the company’s policies for hiring, using and/or recruiting uncertified persons
to assist with rigging operations.  Fruhling
testified “I don’t know if they [Mr. Crane] have any policy” saying non-qualified
people are not allowed to help a qualified rigger at a site.  Asked, “Do you know who would have knowledge
of the policies and practices there at Mr. Crane?,” Fruhling answered that he
did not know for sure, but “Robert Schiller would be someone I would take a
good guess on.”  In response to the question,
“Anybody else?,” Fruhling answered, “Andy Steinberg.” 
Mr.
Crane now asks the Court to grant a protective order to prevent Plaintiff from
deposing Schiller and Steinberg.  Mr.
Crane argues Plaintiff has not shown that Schiller and Steinberg have unique or
superior personal knowledge of discoverable information as required by Liberty
Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at page 1289.
Fruhling’s deposition testimony that he had a “good guess” that Schiller and Steinberg
knew about Mr. Crane’s policies and practices satisfies Plaintiff’s burden under Liberty
Mutual, entitling Plaintiff to propound discovery to Schiller and
Steinberg on the issue of policies and practices at Mr. Crane. 
Plaintiff
may not, however, depose Schiller and Steinberg without first exhausting less
intrusive discovery methods such as interrogatories.  If and when these less
restrictive avenues are exhausted, and Plaintiff makes “a colorable showing of
good cause that the high-level official possesses necessary information to the
case,” the Court will lift the protective order and allow the depositions to
proceed.  (Liberty Mutual, supra,
10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1289.) 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
GRANTS Defendant Mr. Crane, Inc.’s motion for a protective order and orders
that Plaintiff Eusebio Hernandez may not take the depositions of Defendant’s
executives Robert Schiller or Andy Steinberg without first (1) exhausting less
intrusive discovery methods and (2) making a colorable showing that Schiller
and/or Steinberg possess information necessary to Plaintiff’s case. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.