  Case Number:  19VECV01586    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  W JOHN
MORRIS, ET AL. V. MICHAEL HRICAK ARCHITECTS
 
DEFENDANT JOMAR
CONSTRUCTION, INC.’S MOTION FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Date of Hearing:        January
29, 2024                   Trial Date:       March
25, 2024  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        19VECV01586
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Jomar
Construction, Inc. 
Responding
Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs allege they entered into a contract with
Defendant Michael Hricak Architects (“Hricak”) with the purpose of remodeling
their existing residence (the “subject property”). Plaintiffs allege they hired
Hricak in 2015 as their architect. However, it has taken four and a half years
and the remodel has not been completed nor have they received approved plans
from Hricak or a building permit. Plaintiffs further allege Defendant Hricak
intentionally misled Plaintiffs about the status of the project. To date,
Plaintiffs allege they have already paid Defendant at least $326,040.00.
 
Plaintiffs also allege they entered into an agreement
with Defendant Jomar Construction, Inc. (“Jomar”) for Jomar to provide general
contractor services for the remodeling of the subject property. However,
Plaintiffs allege Defendant Jomar breached the agreement and its fiduciary
duties by failing to obtain the permits and demolish the subject property
without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or approval. 
 
On September 11, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a SAC against
Defendants Michael Hricak Architects and Jomar Construction, Inc. asserting
causes of action for: (1) Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Constructive Fraud
(Civil Code §1573); (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Professional Negligence; (5)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (6) Breach of Contract. 
 
Plaintiffs named Michael Hricak as Defendant Doe 1.  
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant Jomar Construction, Inc.’s Motion for Good
Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Jomar Construction Inc. moves this court for an order finding its settlement
with Plaintiffs John Morris and Cindy Peterson to be one entered into in good
faith. Plaintiff filed a notice of joinder on January 12, 2024. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6(a)(1)
provides that a “party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more
parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors…” Under subdivision (a)(2), a settling party may give notice of
settlement to the parties and court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
“shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement” and must include a proof of service. (CCP §877.6(a)(2).)
 
In determining the good faith of a settlement,
the court may consider the affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and
any counter-affidavits filed in response, or other evidence in the court’s
discretion. (CCP §877.6(b).) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, provided factors
to be considered in determining the good faith of a particular settlement. The
court explained that the policies and intent underlying section 877.6 “require
that a number of factors be taken into account,” such as: a rough approximation
of a plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; the
amount paid in settlement; the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs; a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he
would if he were found liable after a trial. (Tech-Bilt at p. 499.)
Other relevant factors include financial conditions and insurance policy limits
of settling defendants, and the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of non-settling defendants. (Id.).
This evaluation must be made “on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.” (Id.) The court further explained that settlement by a
defendant “must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at
the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability
to be.” (Id., citations omitted.) 
 
If a motion is unopposed, a “barebones motion
which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
Defendant has set forth the grounds of good faith
and the background of the case. Around March 6, 2016, Jomar was approached by Co-Defendant
Michael Hricak of Hricak Architects to assist in completing a project of Mr.
Hricak's, consisting of a contract he had with Plaintiffs to completely rebuild
their home. (Miller Decl. ¶3.) In approximately mid-May of 2019, Plaintiffs
reached out to Jomar to get the selective demolition done on the residence and
on May 29, 2019, Plaintiffs entered into a direct contract with Jomar to
perform the demolition on the residence. (Miller Decl. ¶5.) According to Jomar,
the agreement provided that Jomar would have no responsibility to obtain
permits. (Miller Decl. ¶5.) It also provided that the residence would be taken
down to the ground floor except for one wall so that the project could be
considered a remodel rather than a full rebuild. (Miller Decl. ¶9.) Both
parties signed the agreement. (Miller Decl. ¶¶10, 11.) Jomar completed the work
under the contract with no incident or problems and Plaintiffs paid for the
work in full. (Miller Decl. ¶¶12, 13.) To Defendant Jomar’s surprise, Defendant
Jomar was served with the First Amended Complaint in January 2020. (Miller
Decl. ¶16.)      During litigation, the
court adjudicated several causes of action in Defendant’s favor except the sole
claim for negligence with respect to the permit issue. (Miller Decl. 17, Exh.
A.) 
 
Counsel for Defendants attest there have been
extensive settlement discussions with all of the parties in this case. (Gamboa
Decl. ¶2.) There have also been several motions for summary judgment and
summary adjudication. (Gamboa Decl. ¶2.) As noted above, Jomar’s motions have
resulted in the causes of action for Intentional Misrepresentation, Fraudulent
Concealment and Professional Negligence be adjudicated in Jomar’s favor.
(Gamboa Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) The only cause of action alleged in the complaint
that remains against Jomar is a negligence cause of action over a permit issue.
(Gamboa Decl. ¶3.) However, there is no insurance coverage available to Jomar
as Jomar tendered the claims alleged in the complaint twice and coverage was
twice denied. (Gamboa Decl. ¶3.) Jomar attaches the settlement as Exhibit B. Jomar
has settled with the Plaintiffs for a full dismissal, release, and the payment
of $30,000. (Gamboa Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
No party has opposed the instant motion[1]. As a result, Defendant
Jomar herein does not have the burden to produce such evidence in support of a
good faith determination. The court notes, however, Defendant Jomar’s motion satisfies
the Tech-Bilt factors. Based on the record presented and the lack of any
objection, the court GRANTS the application, finding this settlement was made
in good faith. All claims against Defendant Jomar for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault, are barred pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6(c). 
 


