 Case Number:  23VECV04358    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  W ELLEN A. SENTIMORE v. SHREE RAM KRISHNA
HARI, LLC., et al.
 
Motion TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF plaintiff’s
COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 29, 2024                               Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV04358
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Ellen A. Sentimore 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves a claim of bed bug infestation
in a hotel. On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff Ellen A. Sentimore filed a complaint
against B&M Capital Group, LLC and Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC for (1)
Negligence - Premises Liability/Failure to Warn/ Negligence Per Se; (2)
Nuisance; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Breach of
Contract; and (5) Fraudulent Concealment. Plaintiff seeks damages from
Defendants for their alleged wanton failure to properly maintain, control or
repair Plaintiff’s rented hotel room number 501. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Shree Ram Krishna Hari, LLC moves this court for an
order striking portions of Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds the complaint
fails to plead specific facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages and not based on ultimate fact. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
To sufficiently plead a claim for punitive damages pursuant to
Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must satisfy circumstances of “malice,
oppression, or fraud,” supported by facts alleged with sufficient
particularity. (G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) These allegations are held to a heightened pleading
standard: a plaintiff may not state a mere conclusion of law to support a cause
of action. (Perkins v. Sup. Ct. (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.) More
importantly, the plaintiff may not simply "plead . . . a claim for damages
in the language authorizing such damages." (Id.) While some
conclusory statements may be permitted, they must make sense in the context of
the Complaint taken as a whole. (Id.)
 
“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ..., based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct.... With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, [or] ratification ... must be
on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
(Civil Code § 3294.) The California Supreme Court interpreted the “latter
statement as requiring the officer, director, or managing agent to be someone
who ‘exercise[s] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that
ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff does not allege, nor can she allege,
that Defendant intended to injure her. Rather, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed to repair and maintain the premises in a reasonably safe condition and
failed to properly maintain pest control. While the circumstances alleged in
the Complaint may arise to the level of negligence, mere negligence, and even
gross negligence, is not a sufficient basis to justify an award of punitive
damages. Defendant further argues Plaintiff has done nothing more than set
forth blanket conclusions without supporting facts which give rise to malice,
oppression or fraud. Moreover, Plaintiff has not named any managing agent of
Defendant who engaged in malice, fraud or oppression, nor are there any facts
demonstrating advance knowledge of the unfitness of an employee of Defendant,
with authorization or ratification by a managing agent. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she has sufficiently made clear
Defendant’s intentionality, malice, and oppressive behavior. Plaintiff contends
the basis for her prayer for punitive damages is the Defendants’ relationship
with Plaintiff (innkeeper and guests), Defendants’ failure to notify Plaintiff
of the bedbugs despite knowing about them, Defendants’ failure to act in a
timely and effective manner once Plaintiff notified Defendants of the bedbugs,
Defendants’ failure to hire effective pest control, their failure to abate the
infestation, and their collection of rent monies despite all this.  Plaintiff further argues the complaint
sufficiently alleges the concealment of the bed bugs was by an officer or
managing agent of Defendants or Defendants authorized, ratified, or approved the
conduct of these officers or managing agents of the Defendants and has named an
individual alleged to be a managing agent or otherwise authorized by the
management, known to her as “Zagar.” 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has alleged more than mere negligence. The
complaint alleges Defendant knew or had constructive notice of the infestations
as
numerous prior hotel guests have written reviews about subject property and
hotel rooms contaminated with bed bugs infestation over years. (Compl. ¶31.)
Defendant failed to disclose the material facts or warn Plaintiff of the
presence of these filthy infestations at the subject property and hotel room.
(Compl. ¶31.) Plaintiff complained directly to Defendant’s manager, employee
and/or agent, Zagar about the uninhabitable conditions at the hotel room and
despite this, knowingly rented out the bug infested room.  (Compl. ¶¶28, 50.) This conduct could
certainly be found to be so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.  However, the court agrees
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged Zagar was an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation or that an officer, director, or managing
agent of the corporation authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. The complaint generally alleges he was a manager, employee, or agent. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 