 Case Number:  23VECV04267    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  W MARSHALL R.
COLE vs KAMRAN FATTAHI, et al.
 
DEFENDANTs’
demurrer to plaintiff’s complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
29, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04267
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Kamran Fattahi, individually and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust and Kathy
Hosseini, individually and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Marshall R. Cole, as Trustee of the
Marshall and Jennifer Cole Trust 2020 Revocable Trust 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Brenner Decl. ¶¶3-5.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff
Marshall R. Cole, as Trustee of the Marshall and Jennifer Cole Trust 2020
Revocable Trust filed a complaint against Defendants Kamran Fattahi,
individually and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust and Kathy Hosseini,
individually and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust for (1) Negligence; (2)
Trespass; (3) Private Nuisance; and (4) Wrongful Discharge of Water. 
 
Defendants’ Property is located uphill
of Plaintiff’s Property and situated between Plaintiff’s Property and
Defendants’ Property is unimproved natural ground that slopes downward towards
a retaining wall abutting Plaintiff’s backyard. Plaintiff alleges sometime
between the evening of January 9, 2023 and the morning of January 10, 2023, a
large landslide originating on Defendants’ Property occurred which traveled
downward onto Plaintiff’s Property. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to
maintain their property and as a result of the landslide, an immense amount of
dirt, rock, trees, and other debris rushed downhill and came onto Plaintiff’s
Property, completely destroying a major portion Plaintiff’s backyard and
continuing to the front of the house causing significant damage.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Kamran Fattahi, individually
and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust and Kathy Hosseini, individually and
as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is
OVERRULED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Kamran Fattahi, individually
and as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust and Kathy Hosseini, individually and
as Trustee of the Fattahi Family Trust demur to the complaint of Plaintiff
Marshall R. Cole, as Trustee of the Marshall and Jennifer Cole Trust 2020
Revocable Trust on the grounds that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
trespass, third cause of action for nuisance and fourth cause of action for negligent
discharge of water fail to allege sufficient facts to constitute said causes of
action pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e).
 
Negligence and Trespass
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of
action for negligence and second cause of action for trespass on the grounds
Plaintiff fails to state facts against Defendant sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
To plead a cause of action for
negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due
care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292,
318.) “In order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must
allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to
use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81
Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  In California, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.) 
 
“The elements of a common law trespass
are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the
defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry on the property; (3) lack
of permission to enter the property, or acts in excess of the permission; (4)
actual harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct as a substantial factor in causing
the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. United Food and Commercial Workers Union
Local 8 (2010) 113 Cal.Rptr.3d 88, 93, reversed on other grounds by
55 Cal.4th 1083 (2012).)  
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s conclusory
assertions, without factual support, that Plaintiff acted reasonably to avoid
and minimize any damage to Plaintiff’s Property and/or that Defendants failed
to properly maintain their own property are uncertain. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
allegations are speculative as the allegations themselves establish Plaintiff’s
lack of any personal knowledge as to how the claimed event occurred and the complaint
reflects that no less than three properties abut Plaintiff’s Property, each
with the unimproved natural ground that slopes downward towards Plaintiff’s
Property.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues both
causes of action are sufficiently pled. Plaintiff notes Plaintiff does not have
a duty to prove its negligence claim in its initial pleading nor does Plaintiff
have to satisfy a heightened pleading as is required when pleading causes of action
for fraud - Plaintiff merely needs to apprise Defendants of the nature of the
facts supporting the claim. Moreover, Defendants' application of trespass law
is misguided. A "[t]respass may be 'by personal intrusion of the wrongdoer
or by his failure to leave; by throwing or placing something on the [and; or by
causing the entry of some other person.' A trespass may be on the surface of the
land, above it, or below it. The migration of pollutants from one property to another
may constitute a trespass, a nuisance, or both." (Martin Marietta Corp.
v. Insurance Co. of North America (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1132.)
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged the first and second causes of action for negligence and
trespass. As noted above, in California, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms. (Landeros, supra, 17 Cal.3d at pp. 407-408.) As such,
Plaintiff need not allege the exact time or day the landslide occurred or what
Defendants could have done to avoid or minimize the damage to Plaintiff’s
property. On demurrer, the court looks at the pleading alone, and not on the
evidence or facts alleged. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) Here, the complaint sufficiently alleges
the landslide and debris originated from Defendant’s property and Defendants
failed to properly maintain their property in order to avoid or minimize the
damage done. Moreover, Plaintiff need not allege Defendants personally entered
Plaintiff’s property or personally caused another person to enter Plaintiff’s
property. As noted by Plaintiff, “[t]migration of pollutants from one property
to another may constitute a trespass, a nuisance, or both.” (Martin Marietta
Corp. v. Insurance Co. of North America (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1132.) 
 
Nuisance
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for nuisance on the grounds it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The essence of a private nuisance is
an interference with the use and enjoyment of land.” (Friends of H Street v.
City of Sacramento (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 152, 160.) Thus to allege a cause
of action for private nuisance, the plaintiff must allege injury specific to
the use and enjoyment of his land. (See Adams v. MHC Colony Park Limited
Partnership (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 601, 610.) 
 
Defendant argues the complaint alleges
a claim for nuisance based on the same allegations as Plaintiff’s causes of
action for negligence and trespass. As such, the complaint contains no
allegations as to “conduct” on the part of Defendants. Moreover, Courts have
made clear that “liability for nuisance does not hinge on whether the defendant
owns, possesses or controls the property, nor on whether he is in a position to
abate the nuisance; the critical question is whether the defendant created or
assisted in the creation of the nuisance.” (City of Modesto Redevelopment
Agency v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 28, 38.)
 
As noted above, the court finds
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged Defendant’s failed to maintain their
property and as a result, dirt, rock, trees, and other debris rushed downhill
and came onto Plaintiff’s Property during a landslide. The complaint further
alleges their "use and enjoyment" of its property was interfered with
because Defendant affected Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment of the property and
caused Plaintiffs to be displaced from their home as repairs occurred to their
backyard. This is sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Wrongful Discharge of Drainage Water
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of
action for wrongful discharge of drainage water on the grounds Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“Under our civil law rule the owner of
an upper, or dominant, estate is entitled to discharge surface water from his
land as the water naturally flows. As a corollary to this, the upper owner is
liable for any damage he causes to adjacent property by the discharge of water
in¿an unnatural manner. In essence, each property owner's duty is to leave the
natural flow of surface water undisturbed.” 
(Keys v. Romley¿(1966) 64 Cal.2d 396, 405–406.)
 
Defendant argues the complaint proffers
no allegations as to any conduct on the part of Defendants in using or altering
Defendants’ Property in a manner which affected/affects the discharge of
surface waters onto Plaintiff’s Property, or at all. Moreover, the complaint
provides no facts showing unreasonableness in the use of Defendants’ property.
Defendant contends under the modern rule governing landowner liability for
surface water runoff and drainage, it is no longer simply a rule of property
law dependent upon the existence of rights, servitudes, or easements.  Rather, today a landowner’s conduct in using
or altering the property in a manner which affects the discharge of surface
waters onto adjacent property is subject to a test of reasonableness.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues they
have s pled sufficient facts to allege a cause of action for wrongful discharge
of drainage water. Plaintiff alleges facts demonstrating that Defendant's
property is adjacent to and situated uphill of Plaintiffs property. Moreover,
the photographs attached to the complaint show the flow of surface water from
Defendants' property to Plaintifls property and the resulting damage.
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged a claim for wrongful discharge of water for the purposes
of a demurrer. Again, Plaintiff has alleged Defendant failed to properly
maintain Defendant’s own property which caused and contributed to the unsafe
land movement that is the subject of this action. Reading the complaint as a
whole, Plaintiff has alleged Defendant’s failure to maintain their property did
not leave the natural flow of surface water undisturbed.. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 