  Case Number:  20STCV27855    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
6, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  February 3, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         JCS
El Segundo Inc. v. El Segundo Plaza Associate, L.P.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV27855
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants El Segundo Plaza Associates, L.P. and El
Segundo Plaza I, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs JCS El Segundo, Inc., Jay Shin,
and Clara Shin
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
In 1998, El Segundo Plaza
Associates, L.P (ESPA)[1]
leased the property located at 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California
90266 (the “Premises”) to Ping D. Foo (“Foo”). In 2010, Foo assigned his
interest in the lease to JCS El Segundo, Inc. (JSC), Jay Shin, and Clara Shin
(collectively “Plaintiffs”), with ESPA’s written consent.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs operated a Burger King
franchise on the Premises.  
 
On July 23, 2020, Plaintiffs filed
this action against Defendants ESPA and El Segundo Plaza I, Inc.[2]
(collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege causes of action for (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Accounting; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; (4) Misrepresentation; (5) Damages under Penal Code Section
496(c); and (6) Declaratory Relief. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached the
lease agreement by collecting property tax and common area expense payments in
excess of what Plaintiffs actually owed under the lease.
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants
filed this Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            When reviewing a motion for
summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿
A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause
of action.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess
needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant
to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            “Once
the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by
showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the challenged
element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
 
            The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear
in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants
conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            The issue
to be decided is whether Plaintiffs assigned their right to recover the alleged
overpayment of taxes and common area expenses in this action to Defendants when
they executed a quitclaim deed.  
 
A.     Factual Background 
 
In 1998, ESPA leased the property
located at 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California 90266 (the
“Premises”) to Ping D. Foo (“Foo”). (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts
(UMF) 1.) In 2010, Foo assigned his interest in the lease to Plaintiffs, with
ESPA’s written consent. (UMF 2.) Plaintiffs operated a Burger King franchise on
the Premises.  
 
On October 19, 2017, JSC and ESPA
entered into a written First Lease Extension Agreement, modifying the 1998
Lease (the “Lease”). (UMF 3.) Paragraph 16.02 of the Lease provides that “Upon
expiration of the Lease term [], Tenant agrees to execute, acknowledge and
deliver to Landlord a proper instrument in recordable form, releasing and
quitclaiming to Landlord all right, title, and interest of Tenant in and to the
Premises and all improvements constructed thereon”. (Plaintiffs’ Additional
Material Facts (PAMF) 38.) 
 
On December 3, 2023, Defendants’
principal Jerry Jamgotchian requested that Plaintiffs execute a Quitclaim and
Lease Termination Agreement (the “Termination Agreement”). (PAMF 39.)
Plaintiffs refused, as the Termination Agreement exceeded the scope called for
under Paragraph 16.02 and contained mutual releases that would terminate the claims
alleged in the instant action. (PAMF 40-41.)  
 
Thereafter, Defendants prepared a
Quitclaim Deed (“QD”).  Defendants delivered
the QD to Plaintiffs. Defendants left the QD at the Premises with one of
Plaintiffs’ employees.  Defendants did
not discuss the QD with Plaintiffs. (PAMF 42-43.) On December 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs executed the QD with the intention of complying with Paragraph
16.02. (UMF 35, PAMF 45.)  
 
The QD states:  
 
On December 31, 2023 THE GRANTOR(S),
 
JAY SHIN, CLARA SHIN AND JCS EL SEGUNDO
INC.
 
for all consideration of: One Dollar
($1.00) and/or other good and valuable consideration conveys, releases and
quitclaims to the GRANTEE(S):
 
EL SEGUNDO PLAZA ASSOCIATES L.P., for
the property located at: 5107 W. El Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, Los Angeles
County, California lease.
 
the following described real estate,
situated in Hawthorne, in the county of Los Angeles, State of California
 
Legal Description:  Attached as Ex. “A”
 
More commonly described as 5107 W. El
Segundo Blvd., Hawthorne, California 90250.
 
Grantor does hereby convey, release and
quitclaim all of the Grantor’s rights, claims, title and interest in and to the
above described property and premises to the Grantee(s), and to the Grantee(s)
heirs and assigns forever, so that neither Grantor(s) nor Grantor’s heirs,
legal representatives or assigns shall have, claim or demand any right or title
to the property, premises, improvements, rights, claims or appurtenances, if
any part thereof.
 
Grantor herein confirms that existing
Burger King lease dated July 31, 1998 will end on December 31, 2023 and Grantor
agrees to vacate the premises and assign all rights, claims, and interests
under the lease to Grantee.
 
(Jamgotchian Decl., Exh. D.) Plaintiffs executed the QD as
the “Grantors”, and ESPA executed the QD as the “Grantee”. (Id.; UMF
26-30.) 
 
Plaintiffs maintain that at the
time they executed and delivered the QD to Defendants, Plaintiffs intended to
surrender the premises at the expiration of the lease term and any future
rights they had to rent or occupy the premises. (PAMF 46.) They did not intend
to assign to Defendants (and thereby relinquish their right to pursue their legal
claims in the instant action.  Plaintiffs
did not they believe the QD assigned such claims to ESPA. (PAMF 47.) 
 
The Lease terminated on December
31, 2023, and Plaintiffs timely vacated the Premises. (UMF 36.)  
 
            B.   Analysis    
 
This case presents the issue of
whether Plaintiffs’ current claims were assigned to Defendants by executing the
QD.  Defendants argue the language of the
QD unambiguously expresses Plaintiffs’ intent to assign the claims asserted in
this action to Defendants.  Plaintiffs argue
their execution of the QD was the result of a mistake in fact and/or law.  Plaintiffs argue they executed the QD to
assign Plaintiffs’ interest in the title to the Premises only, not their rights
and interests in this law suit. 
 
The court has two concerns:
ambiguity and mistake.  The parties do
not adequately develop their respective arguments whether the terms of the QD
are ambiguous; whether the court can consider parole evidence to interpret the
QD; and whether Plaintiffs purported mistake (of fact or law) presents a
sufficient defense to raise triable issues of material fact.  The court will discuss the issues with the
parties.  The court anticipates ordering
additional briefing on these or some of these issues. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The court
will hear from the parties.
 
 
Dated:   September 6,
2024                            
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 


