 Case Number:  21STCV36715    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
6, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  December 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         People of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen,
APC v. Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV36715
 





















 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
People of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen, APC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Silver
Bird Auto Leasing LLC; The X-Law Group, PC; and Filippo Marchino
 
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is an insurance fraud case arising from a separately
filed action.  The underlying action arose from a motor vehicle accident
between a 2015 McLaren 650S Spider (“Subject Vehicle”) and a tourism van.[1] 
Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC (hereinafter, “Silver Bird”) owned the Subject
Vehicle and leased it to a third-party driver who was operating it at the time
of the accident.  The tourism van was owned and operated by Los Angeles
USA Tours LLC, Sadegh Fatoorechi (“Fatoorechi”), and Ali Dayekh (collectively,
“Prior Litigation Defendants”).¿ Silver Bird’s complaint alleged that the
third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was making a legal turn when the
Subject Vehicle was struck by the tourism van.  Silver Bird’s complaint sought
damages for the motor vehicle collision, contending the collision was caused by
the Prior Litigation Defendants’ negligence. 
¿ 
The Prior Litigation Defendants were insured by Gateway
Insurance Company dba Alano Insurance Company (“Gateway”).¿ Gateway hired law firm
Heath & Yuen, APC (“Heath & Yuen”) for the purposes of defending the
Prior Litigation Defendants against Silver Bird’s complaint.¿ Later, when
Gateway became insolvent, California Insurance Guarantee Association (“CIGA”) stepped
into the case.  In relevant part, Silver
Bird was represented by The X-Law Firm (“X-Law”) in the latter part of the
underlying action.  After participating in a Mandatory Settlement
Conference, the parties agreed to settle the underlying action for
$25,000. 
 
In this action, Heath & Yuen alleges the prosecution of
the underlying action violated the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act
(“IFPA”).  The IFPA proscribes presentation of a false or fraudulent claims
for the payment of a loss or injury, including the payment of a loss or injury
under a contract of insurance.¿ Heath & Yuen alleges Silver Bird’s prior
claim that the driver of the Subject Vehicle made a “legal turn” was a false
representation because a post-collision photograph purportedly proves that the
driver of the Subject Vehicle made an illegal U-turn over a double-set of
parallel yellow lines immediately in front of the tourism
van.   
 
Heath & Yuen also alleges that Silver Bird withheld and
concealed the fact that the third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was
Filippo Marchino (“Marchino”), Silver Bird’s equity owner and a principal in
X-Law.  Heath & Yuen further alleges that Silver Bird and Marchino (1)
obstructed discovery during the prior litigation by failing to provide, and
willfully withholding information concerning the name of their insurer (GEICO);
(2) produced a false and fabricated cost repair bill for the purpose of proving
their damages; and (3) wrongfully continued to prosecute the prior action
following CIGA’s substitution into the action, while knowing the claim arising
from the motor vehicle accident was not a “covered claim” under CIGA’s
policies. 
 
Procedural Background 
 
On October 5, 2021, Health & Yuen[2]
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Silver Bird, X-Law, and Marchino
(collectively, “Defendants”).¿ 
¿ 
Subsequently, on October 6, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative Verified First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants, alleging a
single cause of action for Violation of the Insurance Fraud Prevention Act
(Ins. Code § 1871 et seq.) based on violation of Penal Code section 550.
 
On February 26, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment. 
 
On May 16, 2024, after hearing oral argument and taking the
matter under submission, the court issued an order granting Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment.
 
Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration of the court’s May
16, 2024, order based on different law and new facts.  Alternatively, Plaintiff requests that the
court construe this motion as a motion for new trial.
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
 
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.    Evidentiary Objections
 
1.      Defendants’ Objections
 
Defendants submit seven (7) objections to the declaration of
Josh G. Wong.  The objections are
sustained based upon Defendant’s hearsay objection.  However, even if the court considered the
information, the outcome would not change. 
See, discussion below. 
 
2.      Plaintiff’s Objections
            
Plaintiff object to portions of the Declaration of Brian
Worthington.  Plaintiff’s objections are
not in the proper format.  “[California Rules of Court,] [r]ule 3.1354(b)
dictates the format in which evidentiary objections must be submitted: ‘All
written objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the
other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections on
specific evidence may be referenced by the objection number in the right column
of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the objections
must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement.’” (Hodjat
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.)  A
court may exercise its discretion to decline to rule on improperly formatted
objections or to deny an opportunity to reformat the objections.  (Id.)   
 
The court
declines to rule on these objections. 
 
B.     Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed request for judicial notice is
GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (a), (d)(1).)
 
C.    
Legal
Standard
 
“When an application for an order
has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008,
subd. (a).)¿ “A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time.
[Citation.]”¿ (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
206, 212.)¿¿A motion for reconsideration is properly denied where it is based
on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the original
motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1460.)¿¿¿ 
             
D.   
Application 
 
Plaintiff brings this motion for reconsideration for the
following reasons: (1) Plaintiff failed to cite People v. Gillard (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 136 (Gillard) previously and, according to Plaintiff,
application of Gillard changes the outcome of the case; and (2) GEICO’s
deposition, taken after the hearing for summary judgment, yielded new facts which
warrant the court’s reconsideration of its prior ruling.  For the reasons stated herein, Plaintiff’s
arguments are procedurally defective and substantively lacking. 
 
1.     
Procedural
Ground
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a),
provides that a party may make a motion to reconsider a prior order “based upon
new or different facts, circumstances, or law.” “‘A party seeking
reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce the evidence at an earlier time.’” (Yolo County Dept. of Child
Support Services v. Myers (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 42, 50; accord, Torres
v. Design Group Facility Solutions, Inc. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 239, 243.)  Parties applying for reconsideration of a
prior order on the basis of different law must make the same showing of
diligence required of those seeking reconsideration on basis of different
facts.  (Baldwin v. Home Sav. Of
America (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1200.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Gillard is different law
that compels a different result. 
Plaintiff’s counsel explains that he “didn’t locate the Gillard
decision before May 14, 2024, because [he] had a different understanding of
what ‘material’ was.” (Wong Decl., ¶ 11.) 
This is not a satisfactory explanation within the meaning of section
1008.  Gillard was published in
1997.  The decision was available at the
time of the hearing for the motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff does not demonstrate diligence in
finding Gillard, or any other relevant law to oppose summary
judgment.
 
Plaintiff also argues that it obtained new or different
facts during GEICO’s person most knowledgeable deposition.  That deposition took place after Plaintiff’s
opposition was due.  Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate diligence in obtaining the new information.  Defendants filed their motion for summary
judgment on February 26, 2024, and noticed a hearing date of May 13, 2024.  Plaintiff therefore knew that its opposition
was due on April 29, 2024. Yet, Plaintiff did not serve GEICO with a deposition
subpoena until April 5, 2024, which noticed a deposition date of April 30, 2024.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues it could have presented the new
facts if the court had granted its request for a continuance of the summary
judgment hearing.  This argument lacks
merit.  In its opposition to the motion
for summary judgment, Plaintiff listed categories of inquiry that required
additional time for discovery.  (See Opp.
to Mot. for Summary Judgment, pp. 18-19.)  Plaintiff did not provide any explanation how
the GEICO deposition would provide insight into those lines of inquiring, or
how they were relevant to the issues raised in the motion for summary
judgment.  Nor did Plaintiff raise valid
arguments at the time of the hearing to continue the matter.  
 
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is procedurally
deficient and is denied on this basis alone. 

 
2.     
Substantive
Grounds
 
In addition, if the court were to reach the merits, Plaintiff’s
substantive arguments fare no better.
 
i.       
Different
Law: The Gillard Case
 
In Gillard, a fraud case involving workers’
compensation benefits, the Court of Appeal stated that the standard for
materiality as follows: “[I]f the misrepresentation concerns a subject
reasonably relevant to the insured's investigation, and if a reasonable insurer
would attach importance to the fact misrepresented, then it is material.” (Gillard,
supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at p. 151.) 
Plaintiff relies on this standard to relitigate whether the allegation
in Silver Bird’s underlying complaint—that the driver (Marchino) of Subject
Vehicle made a legal left turn—was material to Plaintiff’s fraud claim because
it was false.  Plaintiff argues, the
“false” allegation is reasonably relevant to the insured’s investigation and
satisfies the materiality element of its fraud claim.
 
Plaintiff argues the Gillard test of materiality is an
objective one.  In Gillard the
false representations had the effect of “den[ying] Dr. Murphy material
information which could provide additional evidence that Gillard’s condition
resulting in an award for temporary disability and medical benefits was not
industrially related.”  (Gillard,
at p. 156.)  In other words, the false
representation was material because it obscured the existence of relevant information.  Unlike Gillard, the claims adjustors
in this case—first Gateway, and later CIGA, each had photos of the underlying
collision.  Moreover, as the claims
adjustor stated in his declaration, CIGA assumed Marchino was at fault.  From any standpoint, including an objective
one, Marchino made an illegal left turn. 
Neither Gateway nor CIGA reasonably attached any importance to an
allegation in the Complaint (which has never been attributed to Marchino) when
they possessed photographic evidence contradicting the allegation and assumed
Marchino was at fault.  Gillard does
not change the outcome.  
 
ii.     
New Facts
 
Plaintiff asserts that it learned four new facts which
require reconsideration: (1) Marchino unsuccessfully sought full payment from
GEICO for an estimate from PFS to repair the Subject Vehicle; (2) Marchino’s
insurance ID on the night of the collision appears altered; (3) GEICO policy
declarations page shows some coverage for car rental; and (4) GEICO identified
Marchino as the owner of the Subject Vehicle.  None of these points create
triable issues of material fact that warrant a different conclusion from that
reached in the court’s May 16, 2024, ruling.
 
First, Plaintiff argues Defendants altered a PFS estimate
for repairs to the Subject Vehicle and tried to obtain payment from GEICO.  However, the PFS estimate is not included in
GEICO’s document production.  In other
words, the PFS estimate was never provided to GEICO.  Accordingly, the PFS estimate, even if it
were altered, is not material because GEICO was never presented with it. 
 
Second, Plaintiff argues the GEICO insurance card that
Marchino gave to Fatoorechi on the night of the accident “appears
altered.”  This evidence is irrelevant.  Plaintiff’s argument ends there.  The nexus to the insurance company is
lacking.  Even if the GEICO insurance
card were altered (and such an assertion is supported only by speculation), neither
Gateway nor CIGA ever saw it or knew about it. 
 
Third, Plaintiff points to the availability of GEICO car
rental coverage to argue that Defendants could have used the rental coverage to
reduce the amount of their loss of use claim. 
Plaintiff fails to establish how this new fact is relevant or material
to its IFPA claim.  Rather,
the argument implicitly concede that Defendants’ loss of use claim was
meritorious, i.e., not fraudulent.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues GEICO mis-identified Marchino as
the owner of the Subject Vehicle, which according to Plaintiff, is an important
fact “because a liability insurer, like Gateway, and later CIGA, would want to
know the identity of the real party in interest, as to the vehicle.”  GEICO’s document production demonstrates that
GEICO had a copy of the title for the Subject Vehicle, which shows Silver Bird
is the sole owner.  GEICO was aware that
Silver Bird, and not Marchino, was the owner of the Subject Vehicle.  Moreover, Plaintiff fails to establish that Defendants
mispresented to Gateway or CIGA that Marchino was the owner of the Subject
Vehicle. 
 
V.        CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing procedural and substantive deficiencies, the motion for
reconsideration is DENIED.
            
Defendants to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   September 6,
2024                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
 
 
 
 


