  Case Number:  21STCV24369    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV24369




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative for Summary Adjudication 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants William Chais as Trustee of the
  William and Wrenn Chais 1994 Trust; and Wrenn Chais, as Trustee of the
  William and Wrenn Chais 1994 Trust




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Eric Schiffer



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities;
Declaration of Anthony S. Ortiz 
2.     Separate Statement in Support
3.     Declaration of Wrenn Chais in Support 
4.     Declaration of William Chais in Support 
5.     Appendix of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities; Declaration of L. Dean Smith. Jr. with Exhibits in Support
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Plaintiff’s Amended Separate Statement in
Opposition (filed 11/13, along with Notice of Errata Re: Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement in Support)
4.     Request for Judicial Notice
5.     Declaration of Jeff Hughes in Support
 
REPLY
1.     Reply in Support of Motion
2.     Evidentiary Objections
3.     Objection to Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 1, 2021, Plaintiff
Eric Schiffer (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants William Chaise
as Trustee of the William and Wrenn Chaise 1994 Trust; and Wrenn Chaise, as
Trustee of the William and Wrenn Chaise 1994 Trust (“Defendants”). The
complaint asserts breach of contract, negligence, and premises liability causes
of action.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he leased property from Defendants, and was
injured on July 5, 2019 after an external staircase on said property collapsed.

 
Defendants now move for summary judgment arguing that: (1) Defendants
exercised reasonable care in the maintenance of the property; (2) Defendants
did not have actual or constructive knowledge of the defect; and (3) the
doctrine of res ipsa loquitur does not apply. Defendants also alternatively
move for summary adjudication against the breach of contract cause of action,
arguing that Plaintiffs do not have and cannot reasonably obtain admissible
evidence that Defendants breached the terms of the lease or failed to exercise
reasonable care.[1] 
 
Plaintiff opposes[2]
and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court rules as follows on Defendants’ objections to
Plaintiff’s evidence:
1.    
Sustained.
2.    
Sustained.
3.    
Overruled.
4.    
Overruled.
5.    
Overruled. 
6.    
Overruled.
7.    
Overruled.
8.    
Overruled.
9.    
Overruled.
10.  Overruled.
11.  Overruled.
 
The Court declines to rule on objections 12 to 19 as they
have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
20.  Sustained.
21.  Sustained.
22.  Sustained.
23.  Overruled.

 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
exhibits A to F. (See Mangini v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1057, 1063 [only relevant material is subject to judicial notice],
overruled on other grounds by In re Tobacco Cases II (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1257.)
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
exhibit G, the complaint in this action.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of defendant
toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm to the
plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) 
 
A.   
Duty
 
            “The owner
of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619;
see Civil Code § 1714.) Stated differently, because a property owner is not the
insurer of the safety of its guests, the owner’s actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing liability. (Hall
v. Aurora Loan Servs., LLC (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1139-1140; Ortega
v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 [“to impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to a defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises”] [cleaned up].)
 
“Historically,
the public policy of this state generally has precluded a landlord's liability
for injuries to his tenant or his tenant's invitees from a dangerous condition
on the premises which comes into existence after the tenant has taken
possession.”¿ (Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44
Cal.App.3d 504, 510; Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 771, 778.)¿This policy is based on the principle that the landlord has surrendered possession
and control of the land to the tenant and has no right to enter without
permission. (Uccello, supra, 44 Cal.App.3d at 511.) 
 
A commercial landowner[3] “owed no duty to appellant for defective conditions which
occurred after the property was transferred to its commercial tenant(s) if the
premises were reasonably safe at the time the tenant(s) took possession.” (Mora,
supra, 210 Cal.App.3d at 781.) However, “[a]t the time the lease is
executed and upon renewal a landlord has a right to reenter the property, has
control of the property, and must inspect the premises to make the premises
reasonably safe from dangerous conditions.” (Id.) “Even if the commercial
landowner executes a contract which requires the tenant to maintain a property
in a certain condition, the landlord is obligated at the time the lease is
executed to take reasonable precautions to avoid unnecessary danger.” (Id.)
The court has held that “when a landlord renews a lease or re-leases the
premises to the same tenant, the very making of a new lease shows that at the
time the landlord has a right of entry to the premises, and logically, having a
right to enter the landlord must remedy the defect.” (Id. at 782
[citations and alterations omitted].) “However, the landlord’s responsibility
to inspect is limited. Like a residential landlord, the duty to inspect charges
the lessor ‘only with those matters which would have been disclosed by a
reasonable inspection.” (Id. [citations omitted]; but see Garcia v.
Holt (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 605 [no duty to inspect for a
month-to-month lease unless actual notice].)
 
B.   
Breach 
 
“‘Breach of duty
is usually a fact issue for the jury; if the circumstances permit a reasonable
doubt whether the defendant’s conduct violates the standard of due care, the
doubt must be resolved by the jury as an issue of fact rather than of law by
the court. [Citation.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance B. v. State of California
(1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”).)  
 
Breach of Contract 
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract
are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” (Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391, internal
quotations omitted.) “Whether a breach is material is usually left to the trier
of fact ‘to determine from all the facts and circumstances shown in evidence.’
[Citation.]” (Schellinger Brothers v. Cotter (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 984,
1002.) 
 
Analysis 
 
            The
following relevant facts are undisputed. Defendants purchased the beachfront
property located at 19232 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, California (the
"Property") in February of 2018. (UMF 1.) In connection with the
purchase of the Property, Defendants hired Elite Group Inspection Professionals
(“Elite”) who conducted an inspection of the entire Property for conditions
that can be a safety hazard or issues that required maintenance and repairs.
(UMF 2.) Elite's employee, Chris Gilstrap, a certified home inspector, performed
the home inspection of the Property on January 18, 2018 and prepared the Elite
Inspection Report. (UMF 3.) Defendant Wrenn Chais was present on the Property
during the Elite inspection. The Elite inspector who inspected the property did
not verbally or otherwise communicate to Wrenn that he had discovered any
defect in the Stairway or suspected or believed the Stairway was unsafe or
required any repair. (UMF 6.) The Property is Defendants’ primary residence.
(UMF 10.) 
 
Defendants entered into a short
term lease agreement with Plaintiff on June 19, 2019 for the lease of the
Property for a term of 7 days from July 1, 2019 to July 8, 2019. Paragraph 28
of the Lease states that “if by no fault of Tenant, Premises are totally or
partially uninhabitable, either Landlord or Tenant may terminate this Agreement
by Giving the other written notice. Rent shall be abated as of the date the Premises
become totally or partially uninhabitable.” (UMF 15.) 
 
Chris Gilstrap does not know
whether the staircase at issue in this case was in any way defective on the day
of the inspection performed in connection with Defendants purchase of the
property in 2018. (UMF 23.) Chris Gilstrap has no recollection of using the
staircase at issue in this case during his home inspection in 2018 and does not
recall how he got underneath the house to inspect the foundation. (UMF 24.) 
 
Defendants also set forth the
following disputed relevant facts:
 
-       
Since purchasing the Property, Defendants inspected the
subject staircase on a regular basis. (UMF 11.) 
-       
Before the subject incident, Defendants regularly
utilized the staircase without incident. Defendants, their family and guests,
regularly used the Stairway to access the beach and never became aware that the
stairs were loose, unstable or potentially unsafe. (UMF 12.) 
-       
Defendants used the staircase to access the beach
multiple times per week since purchasing the Property in February of 2018. (UMF
13.) 
-       
Defendants were never notified by any of the
inspectors, contractors or workmen that inspected or used the Stairway that it
was potentially unsafe or required repair or upgrade. (UMF 14.)
-       
On June 30, 2019, one day prior to the commencement of
the lease term, Wrenn Chais cleaned and inspected the entire Property,
including the subject Stairway, to ensure everything was functioning and safe
for Plaintiff’s tenancy. (UMF 16.) 
-       
Wrenn Chais also walked up and down the Stairway
thereby confirming that no steps were loose or broken on that day. (UMF 17.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
staircase was defective because it was attached to the landing without being
anchored at the base. (See Pl. Resp. UMF 17.) A photograph of the stairs after
the incident shows that the stairs were detached from the landing and laying on
the ground below the landing. (See Smith Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiff provides the
declaration of Jeff Hughes, who after viewing the photographs of the stairs
after the incident, opines the following: 
 
“These images depict that the wood of
the steps contain longitudinal cracks running with the wood grain along the
length of the stair rendering the stair step unstable and dangerous to walk
on.  It is apparent from the photographs
that the condition of the stairs is long standing, and predated Plaintiff’s
fall by at least one year to six months. 
The significance of the cracks in the stairs is that it is clear that
the stairs have not been adequately maintained for at least one year to six
months.”   
 (Hughes Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
He further
declares that the photographs show the stairs were improperly attached to the
landing. Hughes declares in part: 
 
“Those photographs demonstrate that the
stairs were attached to the fascia of the landing by metal screws and wooden
brackets. Stainless steel brackets and screws should have been used because
they are more corrosion-resist, especially in marine environments like the
subject property and stairs. It also appears that the stairs' base is only a
few feet from the ocean and beach.  It
does not appear that the base of the stairs was attached or secured at that
location, making it susceptible to wear and tear from the ebb and flow of the
tide and storms.  This is particularly
problematic because the stairs are not correctly attached to the landing.  The ebb and flow of the tide would put
extreme pressure on the weakest link of the stairs increasing the likelihood
they would fail and detach from the landing as they appear to have done in this
matter.”
(Hughes Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiff also argues there is a
question of fact whether the inspection of the property was reasonable since
the only professional inspection took place on January 18, 2018, about a year
and a half before the incident. Plaintiff also contends there is a question of
fact of whether the subject stairs were inspected. Chris Gilstrap (“Gilstrap”),
who conducted the date inspection, testified that he could not recall whether
he used the subject staircase. (Def. Exh. 5, Gilstrap Depo. 63:10-17.) Gilstrap
also testified that he does not know if the staircase was defective on the date
of the inspection. (Id., Gilstrap Depo. 65:10-17.)
 
Therefore, based on the above, even
if Defendants met their initial burden, there is a triable issue of fact
regarding whether a reasonable inspection could have revealed the defect. There
is also an issue of fact whether the January 18, 2018 Elite inspection covered
the subject staircase and, even if it did, whether Wrenn Chais’ June 30, 2019
inspection was reasonable. Therefore, there is a triable issue of fact
regarding the negligence and premises liability causes of action.[4]
 
Turning to the breach of contract
cause of action, on which Defendants seek summary adjudication, the Court first
notes that the separate statement fails to separately identify this under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d). Next, Defendants seek adjudication
on this cause of action by arguing that the stairs did not render the property
totally or partially uninhabitable. (Motion, 17.) However, Defendants also rely
on the argument that they lacked actual or constructive notice and did not fail
to maintain the property. (Motion, 18.) Nevertheless, Defendants’ Lease
Agreement in exhibit B appears to be Plaintiff’s application to rent the
premises and does not contain the relevant terms. Therefore, Defendants fail to
meet their initial burden to establish there was no breach of contract. 
 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants
William Chais and Wrenn Chais, as Trustees of the William and Wrenn Chais 1994
Trust’s Motion for Summary Judgment and Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
            Defendants shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 


