 Case Number:  22STCV19629    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  14 Del Vecchio vs. The Regents of the University of CaliforniaCase Background
 
Plaintiffs were dietitians at the UCLA
Medical Center. They complain that they were driven into retirement by a new
supervisor, who wanted to replace them with younger employees.
 
On August 17, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) FEHA Discrimination, (2) FEHA
Harassment, (3) FEHA Retaliation, (4) Failure to Prevent, (5) CFRA Violation,
(6) Violation of Sick Leave and Kin Care Law, and (7) Violation of Labor Code
§ 1102.5[1] against
Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“Regents”), Angel Maree
Jones (“Jones”), and DOES 1-10. Only the second and seventh causes of action are
asserted against Defendant Jones.
 
On October 24, 2022, Defendant Regents
filed their Amended Answer.
 
On November 9, 2022, this court
sustained the demurrer of Defendant Jones to the Labor Code § 1102.5 claim,
without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2023, Defendant Jones
filed her Amended Answer.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for July 1, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Plaintiffs
move this court for an order referring all discovery in this matter to a
discovery referee.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part. The court will refer only issues involving the “official
information privilege” contained in Evidence Code § 1040. 
 
            Counsel are
to meet and confer and prepare a proposed order, using Form ADR-110, for this
court’s signature. The proposed order should be submitted by noon on March 7,
2024.
 
Governing Statute
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 639
states in pertinent part as follows:
 
“(a) When the parties do not
consent, the court may, upon the written motion of any party, or of its own
motion, appoint a referee in the following cases pursuant to the provisions of
subdivision (b) of Section 640:
(1) When the trial of an issue of
fact requires the examination of a long account on either side; in which case
the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon
any specific question of fact involved therein.
(2) When the taking of an account
is necessary for the information of the court before judgment, or for carrying
a judgment or order into effect.
(3) When a question of fact, other
than upon the pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action.
(4) When it is necessary for the
information of the court in a special proceeding.
(5) When the court in any pending
action determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to
hear and determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to
discovery in the action and to report findings and make a recommendation
thereon.
…
(c) When a referee is appointed
pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a), the order shall indicate whether
the referee is being appointed for all discovery purposes in the action.
(d) All appointments of referees
pursuant to this section shall be by written order and shall include the
following:
(1) When the referee is appointed
pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of subdivision (a), a statement of
the reason the referee is being appointed.
(2) When the referee is appointed
pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a), the exceptional circumstances
requiring the reference, which must be specific to the circumstances of the
particular case.
(3) The subject matter or matters
included in the reference.
(4) The name, business address,
and telephone number of the referee.
(5) The maximum hourly rate the
referee may charge and, at the request of any party, the maximum number of
hours for which the referee may charge. Upon the written application of any
party or the referee, the court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum
number of hours subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6).
(6)(A) Either a finding that no
party has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the
referee's fee or a finding that one or more parties has established an economic
inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee's fees and that another party
has agreed voluntarily to pay that additional share of the referee's fee. A
court shall not appoint a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these
findings is made.
(B) In determining whether a party
has established an inability to pay the referee's fees under subparagraph (A),
the court shall consider only the ability of the party, not the party's
counsel, to pay these fees. If a party is proceeding in forma pauperis, the
party shall be deemed by the court to have an economic inability to pay the
referee's fees. However, a determination of economic inability to pay the fees
shall not be limited to parties that proceed in forma pauperis. For those
parties who are not proceeding in forma pauperis, the court, in determining
whether a party has established an inability to pay the fees, shall consider,
among other things, the estimated cost of the referral and the impact of the
proposed fees on the party's ability to proceed with the litigation.”
 
Discussion
 
            On October
13 and 26, 2023, this court held Informal Discovery Conferences in this case.
One of the issues discussed was Defendant Regents’ refusal to turn over certain
documents based on the “deliberative process privilege” and the “official
information privilege.” The court explained to counsel that the “deliberative
process privilege” only applies to requests under the Public Records Act. See Marylander
v. Superior Court (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124-28. The “official
information privilege” was the correct vehicle.
 
            However,
the court also explained to counsel that the “official information privilege,”
as set forth in Evidence Code § 1040, is not an absolute bar to disclosure.
It provides only a “qualified, limited” protection where disclosure of the
material in question would discourage candid discussion within an agency and
thereby undermine its performance. Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1040.
 
            The proper
way to resolve whether the privilege apples is to perform an in camera
review of the documents at issue. Evidence Code § 915(b); see also Torres
v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 867, 873-875. That
review should be conducted by an independent referee for two reasons: (1) it
avoids giving secret knowledge to the officer who will ultimately preside at
trial, and (2) it ensures that the parties will have the undivided attention of
a capable officer for as long as they need it. The number of entries in an
official information privilege log is frequently large, meaning that this court
may not have the necessary time to parse through it. All parties may suffer a
significant amount of delay waiting for the court to find that time, and the
other pending cases may suffer similar prejudice as the court attempts to carve
it out.
 
            With all
this in mind, the court instructed the parties to meet and confer and choose a
referee if they could not resolve the privilege issue. Apparently counsel were
unable to do so.
 
            While this
motion is, in that sense, a response to this court’s suggestion, it goes beyond
what this court had in mind. This court did not intend to suggest a general
reference of all discovery, and does not believe that the statutory predicates
for such a reference currently exist in this case. See Code of Civil Procedure §§ (a)(5)
& (d)(2). This case has only seen two discovery motions, and there are none
presently on calendar. That is not sufficient to justify a general reference of
all discovery.
 
            However, for
the reasons given at the IDC, and now recounted above, this court will make a
specific reference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 639(a)(3). The
referee will address disputes relating to the application of the “official
information privilege” (as contained in Evidence Code § 1040) to discovery
in this case. That referee will conduct any necessary in camera review.
To the extent counsel believes the privilege has been waived such that an in
camera review is not necessary, they may raise that argument with the
referee.
 
            The court
does wish counsel to have a referee of their choice, if possible. Counsel will
need to meet and confer and select a referee within the next five days. Counsel
should prepare a proposed order, using Form ADR-110, for this court’s
signature. The proposed order should be submitted by noon on March 7, 2024.
 
Conclusion
 
            An in camera
review is the proper means of determining whether the “official information
privilege” bars disclosure of documents in discovery. Because this court does
not wish to have knowledge which is unavailable to counsel in this case, and
because conducting the in camera process in this court would engender
prejudicial delay in both this case and others, the court will refer the issue pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 639(a)(3). 
 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED, in
part. The court will refer only issues involving the “official information
privilege” contained in Evidence Code § 1040. Counsel are to meet and confer
and prepare a proposed order, using Form ADR-110, for this court’s signature.
The proposed order should be submitted by noon on March 7, 2024.


