 Case Number:  23STCV29159    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  14 Lecea vs VeniroeCase Background
 
Plaintiff is a blind individual. To
navigate the Internet, he uses a screen-reading software that verbally recounts
what a web site says and lets him know what keyboard commands to use in
navigating the site. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s website design is not
compatible with his screen-reading software, leaving him unable to use the
site.
 
            On November
29, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint for Violation of the Unruh Act against
Defendant Veniroe, Inc.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendant
now demurs to the complaint, on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to plead willful
and affirmative discrimination.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. Exhibit 1 is an unpublished ruling in a
different case, which is not properly citable as authority,[1]
and Exhibit 2 constitutes extrinsic evidence which the court cannot consider on
demurrer.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. The materials submitted are not relevant
to the argument raised on the demurrer.
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Governing Statutes
 
            Civil Code
§ 51 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
            “(a) This
section shall be known, and may be cited, as the Unruh Civil Rights Act.

(b) All persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and
no matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in
all business establishments of every kind whatsoever.
…
(f) A violation of the right of any individual under the federal Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-336) shall also constitute a violation
of this section.”
 
Civil Code § 52 provides in
relevant part that:

“(a) Whoever denies, aids or incites a denial, or makes any discrimination or
distinction contrary to Section 51, 51.5, or 51.6, is liable for each and every
offense for the actual damages, and any amount that may be determined by a
jury, or a court sitting without a jury, up to a maximum of three times the
amount of actual damage but in no case less than four thousand dollars
($4,000), and any attorney's fees that may be determined by the court in
addition thereto, suffered by any person denied the rights provided in Section
51, 51.5, or 51.6.”
 
Discussion
 
There are two ways to state a claim
for the violation of Civil Code § 51: (1) allege intentional discrimination
based on the plaintiff’s inclusion in a protected category, or (2) allege a
violation of the ADA. Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th
661, 668-672. Plaintiff has attempted both in this case.
 
            Defendant
challenges Plaintiff’s ability to plead intentional discrimination. However,
Defendant concedes (by not arguing the point) that Plaintiff has pled a
violation of the ADA. There is one cause of action for violation of the Unruh
Act. An ADA violation under Section 51(f) and intentional discrimination are
alternative methods of pleading that same cause of action. In the context of
the Unruh Act, intentional discrimination requires something more than the
existence of a disparate impact on members of a protected class. Koebke v. Bernardo
Heights Country Club (2005) 36 Cal.4th 824, 854. It requires “willful,
affirmative misconduct.” Id. at 853. Because Defendant concedes that Plaintiff
has properly pled an ADA violation, the court need not consider the intentional
discrimination theory on this pleading.
 
(2)       Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant now
moves this court for an order striking Plaintiff’s request for damages “for
each and every offense” and/or “per violation.” Defendant also requests that
this court strike allegations relating to intentional discrimination “in the
alternative” to the demurrer.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is
DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            The language
of Civil Code § 52(a), as quoted above, allows recovery for “each and
every offense.” The issue here is whether there is a new “offense” every time
Plaintiff returns to Defendant’s website and is unable to use it. Defense says
no. Plaintiff says yes.
 
            There are
good reasons to fall on either side of the line, as the various federal
decisions cited by each party demonstrate.[2] On
the one hand, it seems fundamentally unfair for plaintiffs to “run up the score”
by repeatedly visiting a non-compliant site without notifying the owner or
giving them a chance to resolve the issue. On the other hand, it would be
equally unfair to permit defendants to drag their feet on resolution, secure in
the knowledge that they will only be forced to pay one penalty.
 
            The court
cannot tell which of these scenarios (or some other possibility) fits this case
simply from the face of the pleadings. This is a matter for discovery, and then
perhaps a motion for summary adjudication pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 437c(t).
 
            Defendant’s
alternative request, that the court strike Plaintiff’s intentional
discrimination theory, would have the court engage in an idle act. See Civil
Code § 3532. This theory does not affect the damages that may be awarded,
or otherwise change the shape of the case. All Plaintiff needs to prevail in
full is to prove an ADA violation; and that theory is not contested at this
stage. 
 


