  Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  1 20STCV36767           DJAMILEH MAHJOBI vs DAVID E FERMELIA, MD
Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion to Transfer
Case to Another Department; Request for Immediate Stay of Proceedings
TENTATIVE RULING:  Plaintiff Mahjoubi’s Renewed Motion to
Transfer Case to Another Department; Request for Immediate Stay of Proceedings
is DENIED in its entirety. Counsel for Defendant to give notice. 
 
On September 25, 2020,
Plaintiff Djamileh Mahjoubi (also spelled Mahjobi by Plaintiff) filed this
action against David E. Fermelia and Cedars Sinai Medical Center arising out of
surgery to remove a hyperactive parathyroid. On September 27, 2021, Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint asserting causes of action for: (1)
negligence; (2) battery; (3) intentional and negligent infliction of mental and
emotional distress; (4) misrepresentation; (5) fraud; (6) breach of fiduciary
duty; (7) alteration of medical records; (8) failure to supervise; and (9)
obstruction and defamation. 
 
On February 25, 2023, the court issued an order
sustaining Defendant’s demurrer as to the causes of action for defamation and
alteration of medical records and granting Defendant’s motion to strike as to
the requests for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. Plaintiff did not file a
second amended complaint. 
 
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to transfer case to another
department and request for immediate stay of proceedings. On September 21,
2023, Department 1 issued an order denying the motion. 
 
On
December 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a “Motion and Statement to Recuse Judge
Thomas D. Long for Cause; Concurrent Request to Suspend All Proceedings,” which
was stricken on December 19, 2023.
 
On
January 12, 2024. Plaintiff filed a “Second Motion and Statement to Recuse
Judge Thomas D. Long for Cause; Concurrent Request to Suspend All Proceedings
and Discovery Orders,” which was stricken on January 19, 2024.
 
Motion
to Transfer Between Districts
 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice.
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) A transfer under the Local Rules is discretionary.

 
Discussion 
 
Department 1 denied
Plaintiff’s prior motion to transfer on September 21, 2023. In that order,
Department 1 noted Plaintiff’s grievances against Judge Thomas Long were not
properly before Court on a motion to transfer and “Plaintiff [did] not cite
any authority supporting the proposition that a litigant may, via a motion to
transfer, avoid the statutory procedures for disqualifying a judicial officer.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 170 et seq.)” The Court also noted “Plaintiff’s case is not
assigned to Department 1 and the Local Rules do not designate Department 1 as
the proper department to consider Plaintiff’s stay request.” 
 
In
the renewed motion, Plaintiff summarily invokes the rights of due process,
equal protection of laws and the constitutional right to an impartial tribunal,
seeking to transfer this case away from Judge Long. Plaintiff states “In lieu
of further argument, the motions to recuse are hereto attached as EXHIBITS A
and B for the court’s review and consideration.” (Mot. at 2:16-17.) 
 
Plaintiff continues to
assert Judge Long should not preside over the case and this Court should
exercise its “inherent discretion” to transfer the case to a different
department. (Mot. at 3:12-25.) As this Court previously noted the Code of Civil
Procedure provides the proper procedural mechanisms to request disqualification
of a judicial officer and seek review of any denial thereof. (Code Civ. Proc. §
170 et seq. See also People v. Panah (2005) 35 Cal.4th 395, 444 (“As we
have repeatedly held, the statute means what it says: Code of Civil Procedure
section 170.3, subdivision (d) provides the exclusive means for seeking review
of a ruling on a challenge to a judge, whether the challenge is for cause or
peremptory.”).) A motion to transfer is not a valid substitute for this
procedure and Department 1 does not review requests to disqualify a judicial
officer for cause. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff cites
the ABA Model Code of Judicial Conduct and federal statutes, which are
inapplicable. Plaintiff also cites a Committee on
Judicial Ethics opinion, which does not involve transfers or disqualification.
Rather, the opinion answered the question: “When may a supervising judge ethically
disclose to a trial judge an ex parte communication made in connection with a
complaint against the trial judge?” (CJEO Formal Opinion 2020-015 at p. 1
[https://www.judicialethicsopinions.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/CJEO-Formal-Opinion-2020-015.pdf].)
The
reasoning stated in Department 1’s September 21, 2023 order applies equally to
Plaintiff’s renewed motion. 
 
Plaintiff, as the moving
party, failed to demonstrate any factual or legal basis for Department 1 to
transfer the action. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED. 
 