 Case Number:  23SMCV04145    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  25  
HEARING DATE:    Mon., January 13, 2025                                  JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Kendall
v. Van Deusen, et al.                         PETITION
FILED:  09-06-23
CASE NUMBER:     23SMCV04145                                   
           DISC. C/O:                N/A

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  DISC.
MOT. C/O:     N/A
                                                                                                            TRIAL
DATE:          N/A

 
PROCEEDINGS:     SECOND
AMENDED PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD 
 
MOVING PARTY:   Petitioner
Alison Kendall 
RESP. PARTY:         Respondent Roger Van Deusen
 
 
SECOND AMENDED PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD 
(CCP §1285)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner
Alison Kendall’s Second Amended Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration
Award is DENIED, and the Arbitration Award is VACATED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 
___________________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE: 

 
[X] Proof of Service Timely
Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed
(CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed on November 25,
2024                          [   ] Late          [  ] None
REPLY:                     Filed on
January 6, 2025                                [   ]
Late          [  ] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
In 2022, Petitioner Alison Kendall (“Petitioner”), a
licensed California architect, signed a contract with Respondents Chikako
Bryner Van Deusen and Roger Van Deusen (“Respondents”). (Second Amended Pet.
Exh. A.) The parties eventually entered into a dispute over aspects of Petitioner’s
service, and Petitioner submitted the dispute to the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”). (Second Amended Pet., p. 2; Second Amended Petn., Exhs. A,
B.) 
 
On August 7, 2023, an arbitration by the AAA occurred. (Second
Amended Pet., ¶¶ 7, 8.) The arbitrator issued a final ruling on August 16,
2023, naming Petitioner as the prevailing party and awarding her $27,182. (Second
Amended Pet., ¶ 8.)
 
On September 6, 2023, self-represented Petitioner filed a
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (“Original Petition”) in which she sought
to confirm the Final Arbitration Award of $27,182. At the January 18, 2024 Case
Management Conference, Petitioner informed the Court that Respondents had made
partial payment resulting in the amount sought falling below the $25,000
jurisdictional limit. Accordingly, the Court ordered the matter reclassified as
a civil limited jurisdiction case and subsequently reassigned it to Department
25.
 
On July 24, 2024, Petitioner, represented by counsel, filed
a First Amended Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (“Amended Petition”), in
which she sought the amount of $18,299.20 in recognition of Respondents’
partial payment. Specifically, while the Amended Petition sought to confirm the
award, in Section 10, Petitioner requested that the Court correct the award,
noting that while the award is accurate, Petitioner wished to acknowledge a
credit for partial payment which reduces the amount owed plus interest at the
legal rate from the date of the award. 
 
On September 3, 2024, Respondent Roger Van Deusen
(hereinafter “Respondent”) filed a Demurrer to the Amended Petition and a Motion
to Strike. Petitioner did not file an Opposition. 
 
On October 31, 2024, the Court overruled the Demurrer but
granted the Motion to Strike due to a discrepancy in the type of relief
requested in the Amended Petition with leave to file a Second Amended Petition
to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award within ten days. (10/31/24 Order.) 
 
On November 13, 2024, Petitioner filed a Second Amended
Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award (“Second Amended Petition”). 
 
On November 25, 2024, Respondent filed an Opposition and
a Motion to Strike.
 
On December 23, 2024, Respondent filed a Notice of Change
of Address or Other Contact Information. 
 
On January 6, 2025, Petitioner filed a Reply to
Respondent’s Opposition to the Second Amended Petition.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues 
 
While Petitioner attaches proof of service by mail to the
Second Amended Petition, the Court notes the document listed as served on the
attached proof of service is titled, “PROOF OF SERVICE.” (Pet., Proof of
Service.)
 
However, the Court exercises its discretion to hear the Second
Amended Petition on the merits given the filing of an Opposition.
 
III.             
Legal
Standard
 
“Regardless of the particular relief granted, any
arbitrator's award is enforceable only when confirmed as a judgment of the
superior court.” (O'Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants¿(2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 267, 278.) “Once a petition to confirm an award is filed, the
superior court must select one of only four courses of action: it may confirm
the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.” (EHM
Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.¿(2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.) “It is well settled that the scope of judicial
review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.” (California Faculty Assn.
v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) 
 
“A response to a petition under this chapter may request
the court to dismiss the petition or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.2.) 
 
IV.             
Discussion

 
A.    Subject Matter Jurisdiction
 
Opposition 
 
In Opposition to the Second Amended
Petition, Respondent argues the Arbitrator lacked subject matter jurisdiction because
the parties did not engage in mediation prior to arbitration, which directly
contravenes the Contract’s “unambiguous language demonstrate[ing] the parties’
clear intention to limit arbitration to only those disputes for which a
mediation had at least been attempted.” (Opp., p. 5.) In support of this
argument, Respondent predominantly relies on National Union Fire Ins. Co. v.
Stites Prof. Law. Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1718 and United Firefighters
of Los Angeles v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1576. (Opp.,
pp. 5-6.) Further, Respondent contends Respondent was not required to raise an
objection based on subject matter jurisdiction at the arbitration or at the
trial court. (Opp., p. 6.) 
 
To the extent there is an argument that
the Contract’s terms are ambiguous regarding unsuccessful mediation, Respondent
refutes such interpretation and argues the Contract’s terms expressly state the
mediation shall be conducted prior to arbitration, unless the parties mutually
agree otherwise. (Opp., pp. 6-7.) Respondent argues any contrary interpretation
would “reduce the mediation requirement, and all conceivable mediation
requirements, to a nullity.” (Opp., pp. 7-8.) However, if the Contract is
deemed ambiguous, Respondent argues the language of the Contract should be
construed against Petitioner, who caused the uncertainty to exist as the
Contract is a form contract typically used by Petitioner. (Opp., pp. 7-9.) 
 
Respondent also attaches a copy of an
email from the AAA confirming receipt of an email from Petitioner, advising she
is withdrawing the request for mediation and would like to proceed with
arbitration, and an email from Respondent, advising they would like to proceed
with mediation with Marcia Kamine and providing scheduling considerations.
(Opp., Exh. 1.) In reply to the email, the AAA states: “In light of the
disagreement regarding mediation, the arbitration will proceed forward.” (Opp.,
Exh. 1.) 
 
Reply
 
In Reply, Petitioner argues
Respondents fail to meet their burden in attacking the Arbitration Award.
(Reply, pp. 3-4.) Petitioner states Respondents’ opposition fails to address the
requirements stated in Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2 – namely, error
and prejudice. (Reply, pp. 3-4.) Further, Petitioner argues the question of
arbitrability is a question for the arbitrator, and Respondents should have raised
their concerns regarding mediation at the arbitration proceeding. (Reply, pp.
4-5.) 
 
Additionally, Petitioner argues
Respondents waived any objection to the arbitrator’s authority by proceeding
with the arbitration on the merits and failing to raise the issue of
arbitrability with the Arbitrator. (Reply, pp. 5-6.) Petitioner also
distinguishes National Union Fire Ins. Co., supra, 235 Cal.App.3d
1718 from the instant matter. (Reply, p. 6.) 
 
Finally, Petitioner states
Respondents’ Opposition is untimely as a “response requesting that an
arbitration award be vacated or corrected must be filed no later than 100 days
after the service of the signed copy of the award.” (Reply, p. 6, citing Code
Civ. Proc. § 1288.2.) Since Petitioner filed the Original Petition on September
6, 2023 and Respondents did not file a demurrer until September 3, 2024,
Petitioner argues Respondents’ Opposition to the Arbitration Award is untimely.
 
Analysis 
            
            Subject
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.4, section 1286.2 states the court
shall vacate the award if the court determines “[t]he arbitrators exceeded
their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of
the decision upon the controversy submitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd.
(a)(4).) 
 
“A response requesting that an award
be vacated or that an award be corrected shall be served and filed not later
than 100 days after the date of service of a signed copy of the award upon: (a)
The respondent if he was a party to the arbitration; or (b) The respondent's
representative if the respondent was not a party to the arbitration.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1288.2.) 
 
Here, the Final Arbitration Award,
dated August 16, 2023 and attached to Petitioner’s Original Petition as Exhibit
1 and Amended Petition and Second Amended Petition as Exhibit B, does not
include a proof of service or other document demonstrating the neutral
arbitrator served a copy of the Final Arbitration Award on the parties. (Second
Amended Petn., Exh. B.) In addition, the Arbitration Agreement does not appear
to specify terms for service of the Award different from those set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.6. However, the Court notes Petitioner’s
Original Petition filed on September 6, 2023 includes a copy of an email dated
August 28, 2023 from Petitioner to Respondents which purports to attach the
August 16, 2023 Arbitration Award Letter. (Original Petn., Exh. 2.) While the
precise date of service of the Final Arbitration Award on the parties by the
arbitrator is uncertain, it appears the parties received a copy of the Final
Arbitration Award sometime between August 16, 2023 and August 28, 2023. 
 
Respondent does not raise issues
regarding receipt of the Final Arbitration Award. 
 
Given then that the parties received
the Final Arbitration Award sometime between August 16, 2023 and August 28,
2023, Respondents needed to have served a request to vacate the award 100 days
after, at the latest, August 28, 2023. The time for Respondents to have served a
request to vacate the arbitration award had expired by the time Respondents’ initial
response was filed and served. 
 
Therefore, Respondents’ request to
vacate the arbitration award would typically be denied on procedural grounds. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1288.2; see also Law Finance Group, LLC v. Key (2023) 14
Cal.5th 932, 959 [“in a postarbitration judicial proceeding to enforce an
arbitral award, a challenger may forfeit the opportunity to raise a claim of
contract illegality by failing to timely request that the arbitration award be
corrected or vacated”].) 
 
However, the Court may address
Respondents’ claim on the merits since Respondents’ challenge is in regard to
subject matter jurisdiction, which will be discussed in further detail below.
 
First, the Court finds Respondents may
raise an untimely subject matter jurisdiction challenge to the arbitrators’
authority for the first time in the trial court. (See National Union Fire
Ins. Co., supra, 235 Cal.App.3d). In National Union, the Second
District Court of Appeal held that (1) appellant, who refused to participate in
arbitration proceedings and failed to initiate a challenge to the arbitration
award pursuant to the procedure found in Code of Civil Procedure section 1280,
et seq., could raise the arbitrators’ purported lack of subject matter jurisdiction
for the first time in the trial court, and (2) the dispute between the parties
was not subject to arbitration pursuant to the pertinent statutory code. (National
Union Fire Ins. Co., supra, 235 Cal.App.3d at pp. 1722, 1723, fn. 2,
1728-1729.) As a result, the Court of Appeals, in pertinent part, affirmed the
denial of a petition to confirm arbitration award. (Id., at pp.
1728-1729.) Finding the instant circumstances substantially similar to those of
the appellant in National Union as they pertain to the timing of the subject
matter jurisdiction challenge and in light of the rule that “[l]ack of subject
matter jurisdiction can be raised at any time, even for the first time on
appeal,” the Court thus finds Respondents’ challenge to subject matter
jurisdiction need not have been raised first during the arbitration
proceedings. (Id., at p. 1724.) Thus, Respondents’ challenge to the
arbitrator’s authority is appropriately before the Court.
 
            Next,
the Court finds the parties’ claims were subject to arbitration pursuant to the
Arbitration Agreement, so long as procedural requirements in the Agreement were
properly followed. (Id., at p. 1725 [“Code of Civil Procedure section
1286.2, subdivision (d), allows a trial court to vacate an arbitrator's
implied or expressed determination that she or he has the jurisdiction to
determine matters when they are outside the scope of an arbitration agreement;
see Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2.) Here, Petitioner sets forth in the Petition,
and files a copy of, the “Standard Form Agreement Between Owner and Architect
for a Custom Residential Project” (the “Contract”) executed between the
parties, which contains an arbitration provision governing disputes between the
parties arising out of the Contract (“Arbitration Agreement”). (Second Amended Pet.,
¶ 4, Exh. A, p. 17.) Since it is undisputed the issues between the parties
arose out of the Contract, the Court thus finds the dispute between the parties
was subject to arbitration pursuant to the Contract and Arbitration Agreement. 
 
While the nature of the dispute was
generally subject to arbitration, the Arbitration Agreement’s terms contained
procedural requirements that were required to be satisfied before the parties
proceeded with arbitration – namely, the parties were required to attempt mediation
first. While Petitioner contends procedural requirements such as condition
precedents are questions of arbitrability subject to the arbitrator’s
assessment (Reply, pp. 2, 4-5), Petitioner presents no binding authority in
California to that effect. Thus, for this Court to address the full nature of
the mediation requirement, the Court must turn to principles of contract
interpretation. 
 
Here, the parties’ Contract states: 
 
§ 8.2 Mediation § 8.2.1 Any claim,
dispute or other matter in question arising out of or related to this Agreement
shall be subject to mediation as a condition precedent to binding dispute
resolution. If such matter relates to or is the subject of a lien arising out
of the Architect's services, the Architect may proceed in accordance with
applicable law to comply with the lien notice or filing deadlines prior to
resolution of the matter by mediation or by binding dispute resolution. 
 
§ 8.2.2 Mediation, unless the parties
mutually agree otherwise, shall be administered by the American Arbitration
Association in accordance with its Construction Industry Mediation Procedures
in effect on the date of this Agreement. The parties shall share the mediator’s
fee and any filing fees equally. The mediation shall be held in the place where
the Project is located, unless another location is mutually agreed upon.
Agreements reached in mediation shall be enforceable as settlement agreements
in any court having jurisdiction thereof. 
 
§ 8.2.3 If the parties do not resolve
a dispute through mediation pursuant to this Section 8.2, the method of binding
dispute resolution shall be the following: Arbitration pursuant to Section 8.3
of this Agreement.
 
(Second Amended Pet., Exh. A, p. 16.) 
 
In Opposition, Respondents also submitted
evidence of a letter from the AAA highlighting that since the parties could not
come to an agreement about mediation – namely, Petitioner withdrew a request
for mediation and Respondent stated a desire to proceed with mediation – the
matter would proceed to arbitration. (Opp., Exh. 1.) 
 
The Court finds the plain meaning of
the Contract’s terms require mediation to be held as a condition precedent to
arbitration unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. (Second Amended Pet.,
Exh. A, p. 16, §§ 8.2, 8.2.2; Code Civ. Proc., § 1638 [“The language of a
contract is to govern its interpretation, if the language is clear and
explicit, and does not involve an absurdity”]; see also Lange v. Schilling
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1412.) Per the terms of the Contract, only if the
parties both agree to forgo mediation or a mediation attempted pursuant
to section 8.2 is unsuccessful, then the parties may proceed to arbitration. (Second
Amended Pet., Exh. A, p. 16, § 8.2.3.) The Court finds these terms to be
reasonable and not absurd. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1638.)
 
The Court acknowledges the ruling in Howsam
v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84 [“ ‘procedural
questions which grow out of the dispute and bear on its final disposition’ ”
are for an arbitrator, not the judge, to decide” and “an ‘arbitrator shall
decide whether a condition precedent to arbitrability has been fulfilled.’ ”].)
However, there is no indication that the arbitrator addressed this procedural
issue. 
 
The letter from the AAA submitted by
Respondents, and notably not disputed by Petitioner, demonstrates the parties were
not in mutual agreement to forgo mediation prior to arbitration. Petitioner
presents no evidence demonstrating otherwise. Further, there is no evidence presented
by either party that the parties attempted mediation at any time prior to
arbitration. Thus, the Court finds the evidence presented demonstrates that the
parties did not mutually agree to forgo mediation or were unsuccessful at
mediation prior to proceeding with arbitration as directed by the Contract’s
terms. As a result, the Arbitrator lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the
matter.
 
To the extent Petitioner argues Respondents
have not demonstrated they suffered prejudice, the Court disagrees. Respondents
state they suffered the loss of the benefits of mediation due to the
Arbitrator’s error – “Respondents, as unrepresented lay persons involved in a
contract dispute with a licensed professional and the architect of that
contract, maintained their request for mediation throughout this process
because they believed it would provide the benefits recognized by Lange and
California courts generally.” (Opp., pp. 9-10; Lange, supra, 163
Cal.App.4th at p. 1417.)
 
For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner
Alison Kendall’s Second Amended Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration
Award is DENIED, and the Arbitration Award is VACATED.
 
V.               
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner
Alison Kendall’s Second Amended Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration
Award is DENIED, and the Arbitration Award is VACATED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
 