 Case Number:  24STLC03759    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Mon., January 13, 2025                                  JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Timeless
Construction Group, Inc. v. Wyatt  COMP.
FILED:        05-24-24
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC03759                        
                       TRIAL DATE:          11-21-25

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  
 

 
PROCEEDINGS:     DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Timeless Construction Group Inc.
RESP. PARTY:         Defendant/Cross-Complainant June Wyatt
 
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.; 435;
436)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Timeless
Construction Group Inc.’s Demurrer as to the second cause of action (Fraud) of
the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Strike Portions
of the Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on December 30, 2024                                      [X]
Late          [   ] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of January 9, 2025                                [  ]
Late           [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff Timeless Construction
Group Inc. (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendant June Wyatt
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 alleging Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien, Breach of
Contract, Quantum Meruit, and Claim Under Civil Code Section 8800 causes of
action. (Compl., p. 1.) The dispute arises out of a written contract (the
“Contract”) by which Plaintiff agreed to furnish labor, services, equipment,
and materials for roofing work the Subject Property, for an agreed upon
contract price of $34,850, all of which Defendant agreed to pay. (Compl., ¶ 8.)
 
On August 9, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
filed an Answer and Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, alleging
causes of action for Breach of Contract and Fraud.
 
On October 28, 2024, the Court
overruled in part and sustained in part Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant’s
Cross-Complaint. (10/28/24 Order.) Specifically, the Court overruled the
demurrer as to the breach of contract cause of action but sustained the
demurrer as to the fraud cause of action. Further, the Court granted in part
and found as moot in part Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike. (10/28/24 Order.)
Specifically, the Court granted the Motion to Strike attorneys’ fees and found
the Motion to Strike punitive damages was moot in light of the ruling on the
Demurrer. 
 
On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Cross Complaint (“FACC”).
 
On November 7, 2024, Defendant filed a
Second Amended Cross Complaint (“SACC”). 
 
On December 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Demurrer to Defendant’s Second Amended Cross Complaint (the
“Demurrer”) and Motion to Strike (the “Motion”). 
 
On December 30, 2024, Defendant filed
an Opposition to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
No Reply has been filed.
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
Defendant was granted leave by the Court to amend the Cross Complaint; however,
Defendant appears to have amended the Cross Complaint twice, without leave of
court for the second amendment. However, the Court exercises its discretion to treat
the SACC as the operative amended cross complaint given Plaintiff’s lack of
opposition to the filing of the SACC and the filing of the Demurrer to the SACC.
 
 
Additionally, the Court notes
Defendant’s Opposition is untimely. The Opposition was filed one day after the
statutory deadline. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.)
 
III.             
Legal
Standard
 
“As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
A general demurrer may be
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
IV.             
Discussion

 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days
before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(3).) 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a). (Demurrer, Euredjian Decl.) According to the declaration, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel “to setup a time to further meet and confer.”
(Euredjian Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel never received a response. (Euredjian
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The Court does not find that a single
outreach email satisfies the meet and confer requirement. While the Court
may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4)), the Court cautions the parties to abide by their
statutory obligations in the future. 
 
B.     Demurrer 
 
Moving Party Position
 
Plaintiff demurs to the second cause
of action for Fraud on the grounds it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Plaintiff. (Demurrer, p. 2.) While the
SACC states Plaintiff made “representations that ‘were false and made with the
intent to induce [Defendant] to rely on them” (Demurrer, p. 2, citing SACC, ¶
18), Plaintiff contends the SACC fails to state how Defendant determined
Plaintiff’s representations were false and made with the intent to induce her
to rely on them. (Demurrer, p. 2.) 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff contends the
Demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend because Defendant “has
already amended the cross-complaint twice, and there is no reasonable
possibility of curing the defects in the SACC by yet another amendment.”
(Demurrer, pp. 2-3.)
 
            Opposition

 
            In
Opposition, Defendant argues the SACC contains sufficient facts to constitute a
Breach of Contract cause of action. (Opp., pp. 3-6.) 
 
            Next,
Defendant addresses the SACC’s cause of action for Fraud. Defendant describes
Plaintiff’s argument as an argument that “no duty to disclose material facts
existed in this case.” (Opp., p. 6.) However, Defendant contends Plaintiff had a
duty to disclose facts concerning the reasonable cost of replacing Defendant’s
roof and the competency of its labor force, as that information was not readily
accessible to Defendant and was material to Defendant’s decision to hire
Plaintiff for the roofing project. (Opp., p. 6.) 
 
            Defendant
states the SACC alleges Plaintiff “intentionally concealed material facts
regarding the reasonable costs of the roofing project and the competency of the
labor force.” (Opp., p. 7.) Defendant further explains the concealment occurred
by way of concealment of reasonable costs and concealment of labor competency,
and Defendant relied on Plaintiff’s representations and was not in a position
to independently verify the accuracy of Plaintiff’s “cost estimates or evaluate
the skill level of the labor force. [Plaintiff], as a licensed contractor, was
in a position of trust and was expected to provide accurate information.”
(Opp., pp. 7-8.) Defendant then states the damages suffered due to Plaintiff’s
concealment. (Opp., p. 8.) 
 
            In the
event the Court finds deficiencies in the SACC, Defendant requests leave to
amend to provide “additional factual details regarding Contractor’s breach of
contract.” (Opp., pp. 8-9.) 
 
            Allegations
in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint 
            
            The SACC
alleges Plaintiff is a corporation who Defendant believes holds a valid
contractor’s license issued by California, and Defendant is an individual. (SACC,
¶¶ 2-4.)  The parties entered into a
written contract (the “Contract”) on or around November 1, 2023, relating to
the installation of a roof on Defendant’s property located at 121 West 47th
Street, Los Angeles, California 90037 (the “Property”). (SACC, ¶¶ 1, 8.) 
 
            Under
the Contract, Plaintiff was to “furnish certain labor, services, equipment, and
materials so as to replace the roof” of Defendant’s Property. (SACC, ¶ 8, Exh.
1.) The Contract “provided for the payment of $34,850 which exceeded the
reasonable value of the services by no less than $20,000.” (SACC, ¶ 8, Exh. 1.)

            
            However,
Plaintiff failed to “deliver services, materials, labor, and equipment in
conformance with the terms of the Contract and in fact, assigned inebriated
employees to perform the required services.” (SACC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff commenced
its alleged performance of the Contract in November 2023 but has failed and
refused and continues to fail and refuse to perform its obligations under the
Contract by providing defective materials and incompetent labor. (SACC, ¶¶ 10,
12.) Defendant has fully performed all required of her under the Contract
except “those excused by the failure to perform the contract competently and
the fraud” of Plaintiff in misrepresenting the value of their services. (SACC,
¶ 11.) 
 
            Defendant
alleges Plaintiff “intentionally misrepresented” to Defendant that the work
would be performed in a workmanlike manner; Plaintiff would use suitable,
high-quality roofing materials; Defendant’s premises would be “left in broom
clean condition”; and the roof would be “free from leaks for 50 years.” (SACC,
¶ 17.) Defendant states these “representations were false and made with the
intent to induce [Defendant] to rely upon them.” (SACC, ¶ 18.) Defendant
“reasonably relied on these misrepresentations to her detriment” and has
suffered damages as a result. (SACC, ¶¶ 19-20.) 
 
            Analysis

 
            As an
initial matter, the Court notes Plaintiff only demurs to the second cause of
action in the SACC and not the first cause of action. Thus, the Court will only
address the second cause of action.
 
                        Second
Cause of Action – Fraud 
 
The elements of fraud are: “ ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184, citing Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)  A cause of action for fraud must be “ ‘pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. … “ ‘This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which “ ‘show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ” ’
” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184,
citing Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) 
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, a moving party must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, “their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Here, Defendant alleges
Plaintiff misrepresented that the work would be performed in a workmanlike
manner; Plaintiff would use suitable, high-quality roofing materials;
Defendant’s premises would be “left in broom clean condition”; and the roof
would be “free from leaks for 50 years.” (SACC, ¶ 17.) However, this
description, similar to that already addressed by this Court in regard to the
FACC, is not pled with specificity – Defendant must allege what Plaintiff’s
agents said specifically and what authority they had to speak. (See Tarmann, supra, 2
Cal.App.4th at p.157.)
            Further,
Defendant again fails to plead any facts demonstrating Plaintiff’s knowledge of
falsity or Plaintiff’s intent to defraud or induce reliance. (Charnay, supra,
145 Cal.App.4th at p. 184.) 
Finally, Defendant’s allegations
that she “reasonably relied” on Plaintiff’s misrepresentations and suffered
damages as a result of that reliance (SACC, ¶¶ 19-20) are too general to
suffice for a fraud cause of action. (Small, supra, 30 Cal.4th at
p. 184 [A cause of action for fraud must be “ ‘pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice. … “ ‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which “ ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered’ ” ’ ”].)
            Accordingly,
the Demurrer is sustained. 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.
348.)
Thus, the Court grants
leave to amend one last time.
For the foregoing reasons,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the SACC’s second cause of
action.
C.     Motion to Strike 
 
Moving Party Position
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant’s
request for punitive damages on page 5, line 5 of the SACC (Notice of Motion,
p. 1.; Motion, p. 1) because Defendant “fails to allege ultimate facts from
which it can be reasonably inferred that [Plaintiff] acted with the requisite
malice, oppression, or fraud against [Defendant] within the meaning of Civil
Code section 3294.” (Motion, p. 3.) 
 
                        Opposition
 
            In
Opposition, Defendant contends the request for punitive damages is appropriate
given Defendant’s fraud cause of action in the SACC. (Opp., pp. 1, 3.) 
 
                        Analysis
 
California law authorizes a party’s
motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant,
false, or improper. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436.) Motions may also target
pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in conformity with
applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
However, motions to strike in limited
jurisdiction courts may only challenge pleadings on the basis that “the damages
or relief sought are not supported by the allegations of the complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 92, subd. (d).) The Code
of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to
strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
436.) 
 
Finally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) (Emphasis added.) 
 
Punitive damages are authorized by
Civil Code section 3294 in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied . . . .” 
(Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) Malice means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the party of
the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civil Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
As an initial matter, the Court finds Plaintiff
has not satisfied the meet and confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5. The Motion is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, but
the meet and confer efforts here – namely, a single outreach email – do not
meet the statutory requirements of meeting and conferring “in person or by
telephone.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
 
The Court finds that the SACC fails to
allege facts sufficient to support a punitive damages award. The Demurrer to
the SACC’s fraud cause of action is sustained, and thus, there are no other
facts by which it can be inferred that Plaintiff acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression. 
 
Since there are no alleged facts that punitive
damages may be based upon, the Motion is MOOT. 
 
D.    Conclusion & Order
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Timeless
Construction Group Inc.’s Demurrer as to the second cause of action (Fraud) of
the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Cross-Complaint is MOOT. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 
 