 Case Number:  23STCV20613    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
5, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  June 9, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         John M.E.L. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20613
 





















 
DEFENDANT
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTION FOR LEAE TO CONDUCT A PSYCHIATRIC
EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff John
M.E.L. Doe
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
childhood sexual abuse case.  On August 23,
2023, Plaintiff, John M.E.L. Doe, initiated this action against Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for (1) Negligence and (2) Negligent Failure
to Warn, Train, or Educate.  The operative
pleading is the First Amended Complaint (FAC)[1].
 
            In relevant
part, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was sexually abused by Vance Miller (“Miller”)
from 1998 to 2002 while he was a student at Hamilton Music Academy.  Miller was an employee of the Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD”).  The Complaint
further alleges that LAUSD had notice of Miller’s misconduct.
 
            On June 28,
2024, LAUSD filed this Motion for Leave to Conduct a Psychiatric Examination of
Plaintiff.  The exam is to be performed
by Board-certified psychiatrist Dr. James R. High, MD.  LAUSD seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and
his counsel.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  LAUSD replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
            
In any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes
sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking
discovery concerning the plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than
the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is
good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is
relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.220, subd.
(a); see also Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 843 (Vinson)
[“In a civil suit alleging conduct that constitutes sexual harassment,
sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery concerning the
plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator
must establish specific facts showing good cause for that discovery, and that
the inquiry is relevant to the subject matter and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.]”.) The party seeking to discover a
plaintiff’s sexual conduct with other individuals must establish not only
general relevance, but also specific facts showing good cause for the
discovery.¿ 
 
Evidence Code section 1106, states:  
 
(a) In any
civil action alleging conduct which constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or sexual battery, opinion evidence, reputation evidence, and evidence
of specific instances of the plaintiff's sexual conduct, or any of that
evidence, is not admissible by the defendant in order to prove consent by the
plaintiff or the absence of injury to the plaintiff, unless the injury alleged
by the plaintiff is in the nature of loss of consortium. 
 
(b)
Subdivision (a) does not apply to evidence of the plaintiff's sexual conduct
with the alleged perpetrator. 
 
(c)
Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in any civil action brought pursuant to
Section 1708.5 of the Civil Code involving a minor and adult as described in
Section 1708.5.5 of the Civil Code, evidence of the plaintiff minor's sexual
conduct with the defendant adult shall not be admissible to prove consent by
the plaintiff or the absence of injury to the plaintiff. Such evidence of the
plaintiff's sexual conduct may only be introduced to attack the credibility of
the plaintiff in accordance with Section 783 or to prove something other than
consent by the plaintiff if, upon a hearing of the court out of the presence of
the jury, the defendant proves that the probative value of that evidence
outweighs the prejudice to the plaintiff consistent with Section 352. 
 
(d) If the
plaintiff introduces evidence, including testimony of a witness, or the
plaintiff as a witness gives testimony, and the evidence or testimony relates
to the plaintiff's sexual conduct, the defendant may cross-examine the witness
who gives the testimony and offer relevant evidence limited specifically to the
rebuttal of the evidence introduced by the plaintiff or given by the plaintiff. 
 
(e) This
section shall not be construed to make inadmissible any evidence offered to
attack the credibility of the plaintiff as provided in Section 783. 
 
Evid. Code section 783, provides that:  
 
In any
civil action alleging conduct which constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or sexual battery, if evidence of sexual conduct of the plaintiff is
offered to attack credibility of the plaintiff under Section 780, the following
procedures shall be followed: 
 
(a) A
written motion shall be made by the defendant to the court and the plaintiff's
attorney stating that the defense has an offer of proof of the relevancy of
evidence of the sexual conduct of the plaintiff proposed to be presented. 
 
(b) The
written motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit in which the offer of proof
shall be stated. 
 
(c) If the
court finds that the offer of proof is sufficient, the court shall order a
hearing out of the presence of the jury, if any, and at the hearing allow the
questioning of the plaintiff regarding the offer of proof made by the
defendant. 
 
(d) At the
conclusion of the hearing, if the court finds that evidence proposed to be
offered by the defendant regarding the sexual conduct of the plaintiff is
relevant pursuant to Section 780, and is not inadmissible pursuant to Section
352, the court may make an order stating what evidence may be introduced by the
defendant, and the nature of the questions to be permitted. The defendant may
then offer evidence pursuant to the order of the court. 
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            LAUSD seeks an order compelling
Plaintiff’s psychiatric examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.220.  Plaintiff does not oppose the
taking of his psychiatric examination. 
Rather, the sole issue to be decided is whether good cause exists for
LAUSD’s expert, Dr. High, to inquire into Plaintiff’s sexual history with
partners other than the perpetrator, Plaintiff’s teacher Vance Miller.  LAUSD argues good cause exists to inquire into
Plaintiff’s sexual history because Plaintiff’s responded to interrogatories and
testified at his deposition that he has had intimacy problems and emotional
distress stemming from the sexual abuse by Vance Miller.   LAUSD also offers the Declaration of Dr.
James High to support the need to inquire into Plaintiff’s sexual history to
determine the causes of Plaintiff’s alleged psychological harm with regard to
intimacy problems.  
 
The court finds
good cause exists for inquiry into Plaintiff’s sexual history.  Vinson, supra, is instructive.
 In Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d 833, a
sexual harassment and wrongful termination case, the court interpreted the
statutory predecessor to the current version of section 2032.020,
subdivision (a). In permitting a mental examination in that case the court
stated: “We emphasize that our conclusion is based solely on the
allegations of emotional and mental damages in this case. A simple sexual
harassment claim asking compensation for having to endure an oppressive work
environment or for wages lost following an unjust dismissal would not normally
create a controversy regarding the plaintiff's mental state. To hold
otherwise would mean that every person who brings such a suit implicitly
asserts he or she is mentally unstable, obviously an untenable
proposition.” (Id. at p. 840.)
 
The court in Vinson then
described the particulars in the record which supported the defendant's request:
“Plaintiff in the case at bar asserts that she continues to suffer diminished
self-esteem, reduced motivation, sleeplessness, loss of appetite, fear,
lessened ability to help others, loss of social contacts, anxiety, mental
anguish, loss of reputation, and severe emotional distress. In their motion,
defendants pointed to these allegations. Because the truth of these claims is
relevant to plaintiff's cause of action and justifying facts have been shown
with specificity, good cause as to these assertions has been demonstrated.
Subject to limitations necessitated by plaintiff's right to privacy, defendants
must be allowed to investigate the continued existence and severity of
plaintiff's alleged damages.” (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 840, italics
added.)
 
            Here, LAUSD seeks discovery directly
relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.  Plaintiff
alleges he “suffered, and continues to suffer great pain of mind and body,
shock, emotional distress, physical manifestations of emotional distress,
embarrassment, loss of self-esteem, disgrace, humiliation, and loss of
enjoyment of life; was prevented and will continue to be prevented from
performing Plaintiff’s daily activities and obtaining the full enjoyment of
life; and/or has incurred and will continue to incur expenses for medical and
psychological treatment, therapy, and counseling.”  (See FAC, ¶15.)  
 
            In response to interrogatories,
Plaintiff stated he attributes his hardships with intimacy to the abuse by
Vance Miller, and struggles with his views toward sexuality and intimate
relationships.  (See Quintana Decl., Ex.
A, Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 6.2 and 6.3)  Plaintiff has not received mental health
treatment.  (Quintana Decl., Ex. A, Responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One, No. 6.4.) 

 
            At his deposition, Plaintiff
testified he carried on a long-term sexual affair with Vance Miller which began
after Plaintiff graduated from high school. 
Plaintiff stated his current sexual intimacy problems related back only
to the sexual abuse that occurred while he was a student.  (Quintana Decl., Ex. C, Deposition Transcript,
pp. 101:1-11, 103:11-20, 127:14-21.)  Plaintiff’s response to sexual intimacy
problems with Vance Miller during the affair was not as clear.  In response to the question whether he had
problems performing with Mr. Miller, Plaintiff stated, “I would say because I
was younger, maybe it was easier to perform. But it wasn't -- Every time it
would happen, I didn't want it to happen. Like it was something I felt like was
forced on me.  (See Quintana Decl., Ex.
C, Deposition Transcript, p. 112:9-19.)  
 
            Further, LAUSD’s expert, Dr. High, states
“it is necessary that my examination of Plaintiff include inquiry to the
responses provided in [deposition and discovery responses]. The inquiry is
necessary to determine the causes of his alleged psychological harm with regard
to intimacy problems.”  (High 2nd Decl.,
¶ 7.)  
 
            LAUSD identifies specific facts to
justify the need to inquire into Plaintiff’s sexual history.  Acordingly, LAUSD is entitled to test the
veracity of Plaintiff’s claims of emotional distress, problems with regard to
intimacy, as well as alternate cause for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. 
 
            Monetary Sanctions
 
            LAUSD requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and his counsel.  The court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for discovery under subdivision (a), unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.220, subd.
(b).)  Here, the court finds that
Plaintiff opposed this motion with substantial justification.  Absent a court order finding good cause, the
parties were not yet aware whether discovery into Plaintiff’s sexual history
was permissible.  Accordingly, the court
declines to impose sanctions against Plaintiff or his counsel.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The motion is GRANTED. 

 
The request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a psychiatric examination
with Dr. James R. High at a mutually agreeable date and time within 60 days of
this court’s order.  The parties’
stipulation regarding the conduct of the examination is incorporated into this
order.  (See Robles Decl., Ex. 2.)
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 5,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


