 Case Number:  23STCV07650    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
5, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Kevin Ortiz, et al. v. PW Place LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV07650
 





















 
MOTION
TO STRIKE ANSWER


 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Kevin Ortiz and Andrew Davis
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a landlord-tenant habitability case.  Plaintiffs Kevin Ortiz and Andrew Davis are
neighbors in the building located at 4118 Palmwood Drive, Los Angeles,
California 90008 (the “Property”).  The
property is owned by PW Place LLC and is managed by PW Place LLC’s managing
member Robert Franklin (“Franklin”) as the landlord of the Property.  Plaintiffs allege the Property is severely
substandard and unsafe.  Rates and
roaches infest the Property’s units, sewer leaks through the ceilings, and huge
holes in walls and floors go unabated.   
 
On April 5, 2023, Plaintiffs commenced this action against
Defendants PW Place LLC and Robert Franklin.  
 
On January 9, 2024, default was entered against PW Place LLC
and Franklin.[1] 
 
On March 29, 2024, while in default, PW Place LLC filed an
Answer to the Complaint
 
            Plaintiffs
now move to strike PW Place LLC’s Answer. 

 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.        DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiffs
are entitled to an order striking Defendant PW Place LLC’s Answer.  “[T]he entry of a default terminates a
defendant's rights to take any further affirmative steps in the litigation
until either its default is set aside or a default judgment is entered.”  (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault,
Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385; see also Brooks v. Nelson
(1928) 95 Cal.App. 144, 147-48 (stating the rule that a “defendant against whom
a default has been entered is out of court, and is not entitled to take any
further steps in the cause affecting plaintiff's right of action; he cannot
thereafter, until such default is set aside in a proper proceeding, file
pleadings or move for a new trial or demand notice of subsequent proceedings.”).)  
            Here,
Defendant PW Place LLC was in default when it filed its Answer.  Accordingly, PW Place LLC was not entitled to
take any further steps against Plaintiffs’ causes of action until first setting
aside the default.
            The
motion to strike is meritorious for the further reason that Defendant PW Place
LLC, as a corporation, cannot appear in an action without counsel. “Under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a
corporation, unlike a natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of
record in propria persona, nor can it represent itself through a
corporate officer, director, or other employee who is not an attorney.¿ It must
be represented by licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of record.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141,
1145.)¿ As a corporation, Defendant PW Place LLC may not appear in this action
except through licensed counsel.  
III.        CONCLUSION 
            
The motion to strike Defendant PW Place LLC’s Answer is GRANTED.
 Defendant PW Place LLC’s Answer, filed on
March 29, 2024, is stricken.  Plaintiffs
may purse default proceedings against Defendant.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   September 5,
2024                                      




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior
  Court¿ 




 
 
 


