  Case Number:  23STCV29086    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  11 Bejar (23STCV29086)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           7/31/24
Time:                          1:30
pm
Moving Party:           Artisanal Brewers Collective, LLC
(“Defendant” or “ABC”)
Opposing Party:        Fermin Bejar (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are overruled as to numbers 1, 2, 3,
and 5 and sustained as to number 4.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted as to Plaintiff’s
individual claims.
 
The class claims are stricken.
 
Plaintiff’s representative Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim
is stayed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
ABC owns and operates bars and restaurants.  Plaintiff used to work for ABC.  He claims ABC subjected him and other current
and former employees to multiple wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, ABC moves to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
started working for Defendant in March 2022. 
(See Cuevas Decl., ¶ 5.)  As part
of the hiring process, Defendant emailed onboarding documents to Plaintiff.  (See id. at ¶¶ 8-9, 11.)  The onboarding documents included an offer
letter, job application, Defendant’s employee handbook, which contained
Defendant’s arbitration agreement, a meal-period waiver, a W-4 form, a wage
notice, and emergency-contact form, and a direct-deposit form.  (See id. at ¶ 10.)  
 
The
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Yezmin Cuevas,
Defendant’s director of human resources, at exhibit A.  It states:
 
________________________________________________________Arbitration
 
Any controversy,
dispute or claim between any employee and the Company, or its officers, agents
or other employees, subsidiaries, affiliates, parent, or sister corporations,
shall be settled by binding arbitration, at the request of either party. The
arbitrability of any controversy, dispute or claim under this policy shall be
determined by application of the substantive provisions of the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. Sections 1 and 2) ("FAA"). To the extent
that the FAA is inapplicable, the arbitration law of the state in which
employee works or last worked for the Company shall apply. Arbitration shall be
the exclusive method for resolving any dispute, provided, however, that either
party may request provisional relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, as
provided under federal or state law. Even if the Company does not sign for its
receipt or acknowledgment of this policy, the Company, like the employee,
agrees to be bound by this policy and agrees to arbitrate all disputes with its
employees or former employees. 
 
The claims which are
to be arbitrated under this policy include, but are not limited to, claims for
breach of trade secret law, claims regarding breaches of confidentiality,
violation of non-disclosure/non-solicitation provisions,
embezzlement/conversion, employee theft, claims for wages and other
compensation, claims for breach of contract (express or implied), claims for
violation of public policy, wrongful termination, tort claims, claims for
unlawful discrimination and/or harassment (including, but not limited to, race,
religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental
disability, gender identity or expression, medical condition, marital status,
age, pregnancy, breastfeeding, sex or sexual orientation) to the extent allowed
by law, and claims for violation of any federal, state, or other government
law, statute, regulation, or ordinance, except for claims for workers'
compensation, unemployment insurance benefits, and petitions or charges that
could be brought before the National Labor Relations Board. 
 
BOTH THE COMPANY
AND EMPLOYEES UNDERSTAND THAT BY USING ARBITRATION TO RESOLVE DISPUTES THEY ARE
GIVING UP ANY RIGHT THAT THEY MAY HAVE TO A JUDGE OR JURY TRIAL WITH REGARD TO
EMPLOYMENT-RELATED MATTERS. 
 
The employee and the
Company will select an arbitrator by mutual agreement. If the employee and the
Company are unable to agree on a neutral arbitrator, either party may elect to
obtain a list of arbitrators from the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Service
("JAMS"), Alternative Dispute Resolution ("ADR"), or any
other reputable dispute resolution organization. An explanation of procedures
and rules for both JAMS and ADR may be obtained from the Human Resources
department upon request or can be found online at http://www.jamsadr.com/ and http://www.adrservices.org/. 
 
The demand for
arbitration must be in writing and must be made by the aggrieved party within
the statute of limitations period provided under applicable federal and/or
state law for the particular claim. Failure to make a written demand within the
applicable statutory period constitutes a waiver of the right to raise that
claim in any forum. Arbitration proceedings will be held in the county in which
employee was last employed. 
 
The arbitrator shall
apply the substantive law (and the law of remedies, if applicable) of the state
in which the claim arose, or federal law, or both, as applicable to the
claim(s) asserted. The arbitrator is without jurisdiction to apply any
different substantive law or law of remedies. The arbitrator shall apply the
state-specific Evidence Code to the proceeding or, if none available, the
Federal Rules of Evidence. The parties shall be entitled to conduct all
discovery to which they would have been entitled to had the parties'
controversy been filed in court, provided, however, that the arbitrator shall
have the discretion to issue protective orders or otherwise limit discovery
where reasonably necessary, taking into account the parties’ mutual desire to
have a speedy, less formal, cost-effective dispute resolution mechanism. The
arbitrator shall have the authority to hear motions for summary disposition by
any party and shall apply the substantive standards governing such motions
under the applicable federal or state law. Hearing on dispositive motions shall
be made in accordance with the briefing and hearing schedule established by the
arbitrator in accordance with the employment rules of the alternative dispute
organization selected. The arbitration shall be final and binding upon the
parties, except as provided in this Agreement. 
 
Following the
hearing and the submission of the matter to the arbitrator, the arbitrator
shall issue a written opinion and award which shall be signed and dated. The
arbitrator shall use her/his best efforts to issue the written award no later
than thirty (30) days from the date the arbitration hearing concludes or the
post-hearing briefs (if requested) are received, whichever is later. The
arbitrator’s award shall decide all issues submitted by the parties, and the
arbitrator may not decide any issue not submitted. The arbitrator shall prepare
in writing and provide to the parties a decision and award which includes
factual findings and the reasons upon which the decision is based. The
arbitrator shall be permitted to award only those remedies in law or equity
which are requested by the parties and allowed by law. 
 
Either party shall
have the right, within twenty (20) days of issuance of the arbitrator’s
decision, to file a motion to reconsider (accompanied by a supporting brief)
with the arbitrator, and the arbitrator shall have jurisdiction to consider and
rule upon such motion. The other party shall have twenty (20) days from the
date of the motion to reconsider and respond. The arbitrator thereupon shall
reconsider the issues raised by the motion and, promptly, either confirm or
change the decision, which (except as provided by law) shall then be final and
conclusive upon the parties, except to the extent rights for appeal are
provided under the FAA or applicable state law. 
 
The final award may
be appealed to another arbitrator who will be chosen by the parties in the same
manner as the original arbitrator. All the rules governing judicial appeals of
judgments from the Superior Court shall apply to any appeal of this award, including
but not limited to the time frames, deadlines and the standards of review. 
 
The cost of the
arbitrator and other incidental costs of arbitration that would not be incurred
in a court proceeding shall be borne by the Company, provided, however, that if
the employee is the party initiating the claim, employee will contribute an amount
equal to the filing fee to initiate a claim in the court of general
jurisdiction in the state in which employee was last employed by the Company.
The parties shall each bear their own costs and attorneys’ fees in any
arbitration proceeding, provided, however, that the arbitrator shall have the
authority to require either party to pay the costs and attorneys’ fees of the
other party, as is permitted under federal or state law, as a part of any
remedy that may be ordered. 
 
To the maximum
extent permitted by law, employee hereby waives any right to bring on behalf of
persons other than him/herself, or to otherwise participate with other persons
in, any class, collective, or representative action (including but not limited
to any representative action under the California Private Attorneys General Act
(“PAGA”), or other federal, state or local statute or ordinance of similar
effect). Employee understands, however, that to the maximum extent permitted by
law employee retains the right to bring claims in arbitration, including PAGA
claims, for themselves as an individual (and only for themselves). If a court
adjudicating a case involving the Company and employee were to determine that
there is an unwaivable right to bring a PAGA representative action, any such
representative action shall be brought only in court, and not in arbitration,
and shall be stayed until the individual claim is adjudicated or resolved in
the arbitration proceeding. 
 
Only the Compliance
Officer may modify this policy, only in a signed writing, and only as is
necessary to make this policy enforceable under any federal, state, or local
law or other applicable case law effective after this policy's initial
dissemination to the workforce. Otherwise, no employee can modify this policy
in any manner or enter into any agreement that is contrary to this policy. If
any term, provision, covenant or condition of this policy is held by a court of
competent jurisdiction or an arbitrator to be invalid, void, or unenforceable,
the remaining terms and provisions of this policy will remain in full force and
effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated. 
 
(Id. at Ex. A, pp. 26-28, bolding
and captializing in original.)
 
The
arbitration agreement is unsigned; however, Plaintiff e-signed a document
titled “Receipt and Acknowledgment[,]” acknowledging that he received
the employee handbook.  (Id. at Ex. A, p.
98, emphasis in original.)  The
acknowledgment provides:
 
­­­___ _____________________________________Receipt and
Acknowledgment
 
This is to
acknowledge that I have received a copy of the Artisanal Brewers Collective LLC
Employee Handbook. This Handbook sets forth the terms and conditions of my
employment as well as the rights, duties, responsibilities and obligations of
my employment with the Company. I understand and agree that it is my
responsibility to read and familiarize myself with all of the provisions of the
Handbook. I further understand and agree that I am bound by the provisions of
the Handbook, particularly the provision relating to the mandatory, binding
arbitration of any employment-related dispute. I understand that by agreeing to
arbitration, I am waiving the right to a trial by jury of the matters covered
by the "Arbitration" provisions of the Handbook. I understand that if
I have any question about any portion of this Handbook, I may direct those
questions to the Human Resources Department including the arbitration policy
found on pages 21-27. 
 
WHETHER OR NOT I
HAVE SIGNED A SEPARATE AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE, I UNDERSTAND THAT MY EMPLOYMENT
WITH THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO BINDING ARBITRATION, WHICH IS SET FORTH IN THE
“ARBITRATION” SECTION OF THE HANDBOOK. THIS AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE CONSTITUTES
A WAIVER OF ANY RIGHT THAT THE COMPANY OR I MAY HAVE TO BRING AND PURSUE ANY
CLAIM IN A COURT OF LAW WITH A TRIAL BY JUDGE OR JURY. I UNDERSTAND AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE CONTAINS A WAIVER OF MY ABILITY TO
ACT AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE IN ANY CLASS ACTION PROCEEDING OR TO PARTICIPATE
IN ANY CLASS PROCEEDING AS A MEMBER OF A CLASS. ARBITRATION PROVIDED FOR UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT IS THE EXCLUSIVE METHOD TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTES OR CONTROVERSIES
THAT THE COMPANY OR I MAY HAVE, WHETHER OR NOT ARISING OUT OF MY EMPLOYMENT OR
TERMINATION OF THAT EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY. 
 
I understand the
Company has the right to amend, modify, rescind, delete, supplement or add to
the provisions of this Handbook, as it deems appropriate from time to time in
its sole and absolute discretion except where prohibited by law. (The Company
will only make changes to this Handbook's Arbitration policy as are necessary
to make the Arbitration policy enforceable under any federal, state, or local
law or other applicable case law effective after this Handbook's initial
dissemination to its workforce). I further understand that my employment is at
will and no manager, supervisor, or other employee of the Company, other than
the Chief Administrative Officer or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
can enter into an agreement for continued or indefinite employment or
employment for a specific term, position, or rate of pay, and that any such
agreement must be in writing. 
 
My signature below
certifies that I understand that the foregoing agreement on at will status is
the sole and entire agreement between the Company and me concerning the
duration of employment and the circumstances under which my employment may be
terminated. It supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and
representations concerning my employment with the Company.
 
(Id. at Ex. B,
p. 98, bolding and capitalizing in original.)
 
Facts
and terms like these normally suffice to demonstrate an agreement to arbitrate,
but Plaintiff raises an assent challenge. 
He claims Defendant fails to show that he “read, understood, and agreed
to be bound by” the agreement’s terms. 
(Opposition, p. 8.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  Lack of memory is not a
defense.  Nor is failure to read.  (See, e.g., Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff]
signed a contract in a language he may not have completely understood would not
bar enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
If [the plaintiff] did not speak or understand English sufficiently to
comprehend the English Contract, he should have had it read or explained to
him.”].) Moreover, the acknowledgment’s plain language contradicts Plaintiff’s
claim:
 
This is to
acknowledge that I have received a copy of the Artisanal Brewers Collective LLC
Employee Handbook. This Handbook sets forth the terms and conditions of my
employment as well as the rights, duties, responsibilities and obligations of
my employment with the Company. I understand and agree that it is my
responsibility to read and familiarize myself with all of the provisions of the
Handbook. I further understand and agree that I am bound by the provisions of
the Handbook, particularly the provision relating to the mandatory, binding
arbitration of any employment-related dispute. I understand that by agreeing to
arbitration, I am waiving the right to a trial by jury of the matters covered
by the "Arbitration" provisions of the Handbook. I understand that if
I have any question about any portion of this Handbook, I may direct those
questions to the Human Resources Department including the arbitration policy
found on pages 21-27. 
 
WHETHER OR NOT I
HAVE SIGNED A SEPARATE AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE, I UNDERSTAND THAT MY EMPLOYMENT
WITH THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO BINDING ARBITRATION, WHICH IS SET FORTH IN THE
“ARBITRATION” SECTION OF THE HANDBOOK. THIS AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE CONSTITUTES
A WAIVER OF ANY RIGHT THAT THE COMPANY OR I MAY HAVE TO BRING AND PURSUE ANY
CLAIM IN A COURT OF LAW WITH A TRIAL BY JUDGE OR JURY. I UNDERSTAND AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE CONTAINS A WAIVER OF MY ABILITY TO
ACT AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE IN ANY CLASS ACTION PROCEEDING OR TO PARTICIPATE
IN ANY CLASS PROCEEDING AS A MEMBER OF A CLASS. ARBITRATION PROVIDED FOR UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT IS THE EXCLUSIVE METHOD TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTES OR CONTROVERSIES
THAT THE COMPANY OR I MAY HAVE, WHETHER OR NOT ARISING OUT OF MY EMPLOYMENT OR
TERMINATION OF THAT EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY.
 
(Cuevas Decl., Ex. A, p. 98,
capitalizing in original.)  Again, it
is uncontested that Plaintiff e-signed the acknowledgment.[1] [2]
 
Plaintiff
also claims the motion should be denied because Defendant failed to submit the
entire handbook (see Opposition, p. 7), and the handbook and acknowledgment “do
not constitute an arbitration agreement[.]” 
(Id. at pp. 7-8, capitalizing and italicizing deleted.)
 
The
first point is unpersuasive.  It would be
against efficiency and the interests of justice to deny the motion simply
because Defendant filed excerpts instead of the whole document.  Indeed, Plaintiff submitted the full handbook
with the opposition papers (see Grigoryan Decl., Ex. A), so it is part of the
record and can be considered.  
 
Multiple
cases address the second point.  They
recognize that an unsigned arbitration agreement – which is part of, or
provided in connection with, an employee handbook – can be enforced if the
employee signed an acknowledgment of receipt. 
The acknowledgment’s language is a salient feature to evaluate.  (See Mitri v. Arnel Management Co.
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1173; see also Gorlach v. Sports
Club Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1507-1511; Harris v.
TAP Worldwide, LLC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 381-385; Esparza
v. Sand & Sea, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 781, 788-792; Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child &
Family Services (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 1511, 1519-1522; Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 782-791; Romo v. Y-3 Holdings, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1158-1160; Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 68-70; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th
771, 804-806.) 

 
Given
these authorities, the following factors support finding that an arbitration
agreement exists:
 
* the
handbook’s table of contents identifies pages and sections pertaining to
arbitration (see Grigoryan Decl., Ex. A, p. 1);
 
*
Defendant’s arbitration agreement appears on pages 26 through 32 of the
handbook (see id. at Ex. A, pp. 26-32);
 
*
Plaintiff’s e-signature on the acknowledgment is uncontested (see id. at Ex. A,
p. 98; see also Cuevas Decl., Ex. A, p. 98); and
 
* the
acknowledgment states that the “‘ARBITRATION’ SECTION OF THE HANDBOOK” is
binding on Plaintiff regardless of whether he signed it.  (Grigoryan Decl., Ex. A, p. 98, capitalizing
in original; see also Cuevas Decl., Ex. A, p. 98.)
 
Defendant’s
burden is satisfied.
 
FAA
 
Concerning
the FAA, the agreement’s wording is clear. 
It states that “[t]he arbitrability of any controversy, dispute
or claim under this policy shall be determined by application” of the FAA’s
“substantive provisions[.]”  (Grigoryan
Decl., Ex. A, p. 26; see also Cuevas Decl., Ex. A,
p. 26.)
 
Because
of the clear wording, the Court does not need to decide whether Defendant’s
evidence shows an impact on interstate commerce.
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the
agreement is unconscionable.  (See
Opposition, pp. 9-13.)
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or
one-sided results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must
both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
For procedural
unconscionability, Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is a contract of
adhesion and that it was hidden in the handbook.  (See Opposition, pp. 9-12.)
 
The
first point is unavailing.  Plaintiff
does not cite evidence establishing that Defendant presented the agreement on a
take-it-or-leave it basis.  More
importantly, “a predispute arbitration agreement is not invalid merely because
it is imposed as a condition of employment.” 
(Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1122–1123.)  Stated another
way, “the mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself,
render the agreement unenforceable.” 
(Ibid.; see also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion
contract is involved does not per se render the arbitration clause
unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts
are ‘an inevitable fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer
alike.’”], emphasis in original.)
 
The second point also
fails.  To reiterate, the handbook’s
table of contents identifies the pages dealing with arbitration, the agreement
appears on handbook pages 26 through 32, Plaintiff acknowledged receiving the
handbook and agreement, and he acknowledged that the agreement would be binding
on him even if he did not sign it.  These
factors belie Plaintiff’s claim of surprise.
 
For substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff contends the agreement requires sexual-assault and
sexual-harassment claims to be arbitrated (see Opposition, pp. 12-13), fails to
exclude public-injunction claims from arbitration (see id. at p. 13), and
restricts the arbitration location.  (See
ibid.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff does not allege sexual-assault and
sexual-harassment causes of action; he does not seek a public injunction; under
the agreement, arbitration of such claims is limited “to the extent allowed by
law[;]”[3]
and, in compliance with the FAA, the arbitration is expected take place in the
county and district where Plaintiff worked for Defendant and where Defendant
filed the motion to compel.  (Cuevas
Decl., Ex. A, p. 26; see also Reply, p. 9.) 

 
The Court finds the
agreement enforceable.
 
Class Claims
 
Defendant
contends the class claims should be stricken. 
(See, e.g., Motion, p. 14.)
 
Plaintiff
does not respond.  (See Opposition, pp.
1-15.)
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant.  The Court
strikes the class claims because the agreement appears to waive class claims
(see Cuevas Decl., Ex. A, pp. 28, 98), and the waiver is enforceable under the
FAA.  (See, e.g., Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 359-360
[finding that the FAA preempts “a state’s refusal to enforce [] a [class]
waiver on grounds of public policy or unconscionability”].)
 
PAGA
 
Defendant
contends the individual PAGA claim should be arbitrated and the representative
PAGA claim should be dismissed or stayed. 
(See Motion, pp. 11-13; see also Reply, pp. 9-10.)
 
Plaintiff
claims the Court has discretion to deny a stay and to litigate the
representative PAGA claim while the arbitration is pending.  (See Opposition, pp. 14-15.)
 
Prior
to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking
River”), Iskanian controlled. 
“Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’
PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking
River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.)  “That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative
standing to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In
Viking River, the plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any
dispute arising out of her employment.” 
(Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action Waiver’ providing that in any
arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring any dispute as a class,
collective, or representative PAGA action.” 
(Ibid.)  “It also contained a severability
clause specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class, collective,
representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in court.”  (Ibid.) 
“But under that severability clause, if any ‘portion’ of the waiver
remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After
leaving her position” with the defendant, the plaintiff “filed a PAGA action .
. . in California court.”  (Ibid.)  “Her complaint contained a claim that [the
defendant] had failed to provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as
required by” Labor Code sections 101 and 102. 
(Ibid.)  “But the complaint also
asserted a wide array of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . .
. employees, including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage,
overtime, meal periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s]
‘individual’ PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she
suffered — and to dismiss her other PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The trial court denied that motion, and the California Court of Appeal
affirmed, holding that categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to
state policy and that PAGA claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual
claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’ claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim[.]”  (Ibid.)
 
The
United States Supreme Court granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one,
that the FAA preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA
claims.  Under Iskanian, this
provision was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.
 
This is a recurring issue in
numerous cases on the Court’s docket.  Considering
Iskanian, Viking River, and Adolph, the Court’s approach
has been to compel individual PAGA claims to arbitration and to stay
representative PAGA claims until the arbitrations finish.  Discretion or not, the Court believes the
same should be done here.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


