 Case Number:  23STCV24878    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PROJECT
  7 SECURITY GROUP, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
MICHAEL
  JOHNSON 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV24878  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 5, 2024



 
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel initial responses from Defendant to their Form Interrogatories
(Set One) is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $700, payable within 30 days.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel initial responses from Defendant to their Requests for
Identification and Production of Documents is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00, also payable within 30 days.
 
            On
10/9/2023, Plaintiffs Project 7 Security Group and Brandon Gatewood
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Michael Johnson, alleging: (1)
independent action in equity to vacate judgment for lack of personal
jurisdiction; and (2) independent action in equity to vacate judgment for
extrinsic fraud or mistake.  
 
            On
4/9/2023, Plaintiffs moved to compel initial responses from Defendant to their
Form Interrogatories (Set One) and their Requests for Identification and
Production of Documents. Plaintiffs also request monetary sanctions in
connection to both motions. 
 
            The
motions are unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            On
12/29/2023, Plaintiffs served Defendant with Form Interrogatories (Set One) and
Requests for Identification and Production of Documents.
 
            To
date, no responses have been received and Defendant did not oppose this motion.
As such, Defendant has not offered any justification for his failure to
respond.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel initial responses from Defendant
to their Form Interrogatories (Set One) and their Requests for Identification
and Production of Documents is granted. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $700 per motion. ($350/hr x 2.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 