  Case Number:  20STCV39600    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WHITNEY ROLLAND REED II, an individual, by
  his guardian ad litem, 
Joanna Jones Reed 
  
        
  vs.
 
County of Los Angeles, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  20STCV39600  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 5, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the Title 15 safety checks.
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is denied in all other respects. 
 
On 10/15/2020, Plaintiff Whitney Rolland Reed II
(Plaintiff or Mr. Reed) filed suit against the County of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles County Sherriff’s Department, Sheriff Alex Villanueva, Sergeant
Rodriguez, Sergeant L. Raymond, Deputy D. Auner, Deputy Hussainian, Deputy M.
Salomon, and Deputy J. Stern (collectively, Defendants) . On 5/26/2023,
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1) breach of
mandatory duties; (2) failure to summon medical care; (3) negligence; and (4)
violation of the Bane Act. 
 
            On
4/11/2024, Defendant moved for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s SAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Immunity 
 
            Defendant
argues that the County is entitled to summary judgment because it has statutory
immunity for injuries to prisoners and the undisputed facts demonstrate that
custody personnel took reasonable action to summon medical care. 
 
Under the
California Tort Claims Act, a public entity cannot be held liable for an injury
to any prisoner unless an employee fails to take reasonable action to summon
medical care for prisoner in violation of section 845.6. (Hart v. Orange
County (App. 4 Dist. 1967) 62 Cal.Rptr. 73. Section 844.6 provides that “a
public entity is not liable for: (1) An injury proximately caused by any
prisoner…[or] (2) An injury to any prisoner. Under section 844, the term
“prisoner” includes an inmate of a prison, jail, or penal or correctional
facility
 
            To
show that it took reasonable action to summon medical care for Plaintiff after
each incident, Defendant submitted the following evidence:
 
-        
The Los Angeles Police Department
transferred Plaintiff to the custody of the County on September 11, 2019.
Plaintiff was released from the County’s Custody on November 20, 2019.  (SS 1.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
7:30 p.m., Plaintiff notified custody personnel that he had been assaulted by
another inmate in Module 3600, Row D of the Men’s Central Jail (“MCJ”).
Plaintiff had blood flowing from a one-inch laceration to the crown of his
head. There were no signs of injury anywhere else on Plaintiff’s body.  (SS 2.)
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
7:45 p.m., Plaintiff was escorted to the medical clinic at MCJ for a medical
evaluation. (SS 3.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
8:22 p.m., Plaintiff was evaluated by a registered nurse. Plaintiff appeared
healthy and in no obvious distress. Plaintiff denied any discomfort, including
pain and his speech was clear and coherent. Dry dressing was applied to a 3 cm
laceration to Plaintiff’s scalp. Plaintiff was then sent to Urgent Care for
further evaluation by a doctor. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
9:00 p.m., Deputy Auner submitted a Behavioral Observation and Mental Health
Referral (“BOMHR”) for Plaintiff because he showed a danger to other inmates
and staff by instigating fights. The submission of a BOHMR enables custody
personnel to refer inmates exhibiting symptoms of mental illness for assessment
and treatment by mental health staff. (SS 5.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
9:24 p.m., Plaintiff refused an offer to have his scalp laceration repaired
with sutures or Tetanus shot update offer from Dr. Solomon. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at 10:02 p.m.,
Plaintiff was determined to be in a stable medical condition for a mental
health evaluation at the Inmate Reception Center (“IRC”), High Observation Unit
(“HOH”). (SS 7.) 
 
-        
On September 20, 2019 at 10:52 p.m.,
Plaintiff was subjected to a mental health evaluation by a psychiatric social
worker while in HOH due to the BOHMR by Deputy Auner. Plaintiff was admitted
into HOH housing at the Twin Towers Correctional Facility (“TTCF”) for further
evaluation. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
On September 21, 2019 at 2:52 p.m.,
Plaintiff was subjected to a mental health evaluation by a clinical
psychologist while dressed in a suicide gown. Plaintiff stated he was feeling
“fine,” denied any mental health symptoms, refused mental health treatment, and
requested to be returned to General Population (“GP”). (SS 9.) 
 
-        
After completing the evaluation on
September 21, 2019, the clinical psychologist determined that housing Plaintiff
in GP was appropriate. (SS 10.) 
 
-        
No custody personnel have authority,
knowledge, or the training necessary to make safety assessments based on an
inmate’s medical or mental health and do not have access to inmate medical
records. (SS 11.) 
 
-        
In accordance with the directives of
medical professionals at Correctional Health Services (“CHS”), Plaintiff was
transferred back to GP at the MCJ on September 25, 2019. (SS 12.) 
 
-        
On September 27, 2019 at approximately
2:30 p.m. in Module 2200, Row A of MCJ, Plaintiff reported to custody personnel
that he had been involved in a physical altercation with another inmate.
Custody personnel then escorted Plaintiff to the medical clinic at MCJ. (SS
13.) 
 
-        
On September 27, 2019, at 3:47 p.m.,
Plaintiff was evaluated by a registered nurse. It was determined that Plaintiff
had one front tooth broken during the physical altercation and he was
transferred to urgent care. (SS 14.)
 
-        
On September 27, 2019, at 4:09 p.m.,
Plaintiff advised medical personnel that “I don’t wanna be seen. I’m okay.”
Plaintiff refused to see any provider and refused further evaluation. Plaintiff
was determined to have the mental capacity to make an informed decision
regarding his medical care and the medical personnel respected Plaintiff’s
rights. (SS 15.) 
 
-        
On September 28, 2019 at 8:28 a.m.,
Plaintiff’s mother, Joanna Reed, initiated an administrative grievance
indicating that Plaintiff had not received mental health services. (SS 16.) 
 
-        
On September 28, 2019 at 10:25 a.m.,
Plaintiff was evaluated by a psychiatric social worker while he was still
housed at TTCF in response to the grievance by Plaintiff’s mother. Although
Plaintiff continued to refuse psychiatric medication, it was concluded that
Plaintiff did not present true psychotic picture signs, had a good ability to
advocate for himself, and that Plaintiff was stable for P1 housing. (SS 17.) 
 
-        
Inmates determined to be stable for P1
housing may be housed in GP due to the inmate’s minimal mental health status.
By contrast, inmates with significant mental health issues are housed in TTCF.
(SS 18.) 
 
-        
On October 3, 2019 at 1:30 p.m.,
Plaintiff was evaluated by a psychiatrist while still housed at TTCF. Plaintiff
stated that “My mother wants my SSI. I’m doing great I don’t take meds or need
meds I sleep fine. I don’t have bipolar. I was in the hospital because of my
mother and I had a friend who did something stupid. I got punched here.” (SS
19.) 
 
-        
During the evaluation, the psychiatrist
also concluded that Plaintiff was currently stable for P1 housing in GP and
that Plaintiff was aware he had the right to refuse medication. (SS 20.) 
 
-        
On October 6, 2019, Plaintiff was
transferred back to MCJ and assigned to housing in Module 2100. (SS 21.) 
 
-        
On October 7, 2019, at approximately
10:45 a.m., custody personnel discovered Plaintiff had been attacked by other
inmates with an unknown object in Module 2100, Row A. Plaintiff was immediately
escorted to the medical clinic at MCJ. (SS 22.) 
 
-        
On October 7, 2019, at 11:11 a.m.,
Plaintiff presented to the medical clinic with MCJ with three (3) puncture wounds
to the posterior aspect head, (2) puncture wounds to the right parietal area of
his head, deep laceration to right eyebrow, a laceration to left side fact,
right wrist and right knuckle. (SS 23.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff’s wounds were cleaned, and
paramedics were called to transport Plaintiff to the hospital. Plaintiff was
escorted by a Deputy to the hospital at 11:40 a.m. via ambulance. (SS 24.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that custody personnel did promptly
summon medical care for Plaintiff after each physical altercation. Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants failed to order a mental health evaluation
within 24 hours, and failed to conduct Title 15 safety checks. Based on these
non-discretionary duties, Defendants’ employees “knew or had reason to know
that Mr. Reed was in need of immediate medical care “failed to take reasonable
action to summon such medical care.” Cal. Gov. Code § 845.” (11, 17-19.) 
 
In support,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
On September 20, 2019, at approximately
7:30 p.m., Plaintiff notified custody personnel that he had been assaulted by
another inmate in Module 3600, Row D of MCJ. While Defendant claims he was seen
at approximately 7:45 p.m., evidence shows that Mr. Reed was not seen by RN J.
Galindo until 8:22 p.m. (SS 3.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff was not healthy, he had a
laceration on his scalp, had been bleeding profusely, and was not continuously
bleeding because it had dried due to the wait to get medical care. Also, Mr.
Reed needed follow-up care from Dr. Solomon: “a laceration on top of head
measuring 3 cm in total length. Possible suturing needed…will send to urgent
care for further evaluation by a provider.” And then by Dr. Solomon at 9:08
p.m. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
Then, around 10 p.m., Mr. Reed was seen
again by RN John Galindo who reported: “Patient’s back in MCJ main clinic due
to having bizarre behavior, rambling speech and unable to follow simple
instructions …[Reed] was assaulted earlier by another inmate which he sustained
a blunt head trauma with scalp laceration…[Reed] in stable medical condition
for mental evaluation at IRC.” (SS 5.) 
 
-        
Mr. Reed described the delayed medical
care and his odd response to it: “someone bashed my head in (showing head) and
I refused stitches and asked for water treatment…they took too long with that
so I just refused it too...I don’t want to hurt myself or anyone else…I don’t
do this jail stuff.” (LASD 181) Psych Social Worker Hall also noted that Mr.
Reed, “would constantly need to be redirected to questions asked and would not
give clear responses.” (SS 5.) 
 
-        
The assessment of Plaintiff overlooked
Mr. Reed’s bipolar diagnosis and erratic behavior. LASD documents showed that
Mr. Reed had been identified as bipolar (LASD 183, 185), and had been deemed to
have “mental health” needs the day before. (SS 7.)
 
-        
On September 25, 2019, Judge Daniel J.
Lowenthal, sitting in Department S18 of Los Angeles County Superior Court in
Long Beach issued an order for a mental health examination and specified:
“Defendant has a history of bipolar disorder, needs appropriate treatment.”
(LASD 162) On September 28, 2019, defendant LASD acknowledged a complaint by
Mr. Reed’s mother: “Mrs. Joanna Reed, Inmate Whitney Reed’s mother, believes
her son has not received mental health services. Inmate Reed has a history of
mental disorders and homelessness. According to Mrs. Reed, Inmate Reed has been
diagnosed with Bi-Polar 2, Schizophrenia and has been hospitalized and should
not be without medication.” (LASD 0003) That same day Mental Health issued an
alert as to Mr. Reed: "MH Alerts: Violent Behavior.” (SS 15.) 
 
-        
Joanne Reed, who gave background,
including medication history, called him “psychotic” because of his lack of
insight and self-care and stated that she, “believes he is not in touch with
reality and fears for his life.” (LASD 174) Mr. Reed confirmed he was on
Supplemental Security Income (SSI), which is the federal monthly payment to
people with disabilities. (LASD 174) Despite the notice of disabilities,
Smith-White discontinued the Psych Hold placement. (LASD 263) (SS 19.) 
 
-        
The first attack, on September 20,
2019, was caught on surveillance footage, and showed another inmate pushed Reed
into his cell, “where he hit the back of his head on the threshold of his
cell.” (LASD 30) Mr. Reed was not discovered under the Title 15 check. At that
point, Deputy Auner did not immediately take Mr. Reed to receive medical care.
He was not seen by RN J. Galindo until 8:22 p.m., almost an hour later. (LASD
248-251) By then, the blood from Mr. Reed’s wound had dried. (SS 76.) 
 
-        
The second attack, on September 27,
2019, occurred two days after Judge Lowenthal faxed on order that specified:
“Defendant has a history of bipolar disorder, needs appropriate treatment.”
While conducting Title 15 welfare checks, Deputy M. Solomon observed, “redness
around [Reed’s] mouth and a chipped tooth,” (LASD 38) and heard Mr. Reed
described as “crazy” and that he had “not taken his medication.” (LASD 38)
Despite learning of the attack around 2:30 p.m., Deputy M. Solomon did not
escort Mr. Reed to the MCJ Main Clinic until around 3:30 p.m. (LASD 44) where
he was seen around 3:47 p.m. by RN Jong Park, who reported that the “[f]ront of
one tooth was broken.” (LASD 247)
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendant “knew or had reason to
know that Mr. Reed was in need of immediate medical care “failed to take
reasonable action to summon such medical care.” Cal. Gov. Code § 845.” 
 
II.                                      
Breach of Mandatory Duty
 
Defendant
argues that “the individual Deputy Defendants are entitled to a judgment in
their favor on Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of a mandatory
duty and the third cause of action for failure to summon medical care because
the undisputed facts demonstrate that custody personnel promptly summoned
reasonable medical care for Plaintiff after each physical altercation and that
Plaintiff received numerous medical and mental health evaluations throughout
his incarceration.” (Motion, 16: 5-9.)
 
There is a
distinction between failure to summon medical care—for which custody personnel
can be held liable under section 845.6—and negligence in providing care—for
which custody personnel are immune. (Castaneda v. Dep't of Corr. &
Rehab. (2013) 212 Cal. App. 4th 1051, 1071.) Medical malpractice by a
doctor or other medical professional when providing treatment to a prisoner is
not the legal equivalent to a failure to summon medical care under section
845.6. (Id.) For example in Nelson v. State of California (1982) 139 Cal.App.3d, the plaintiff was incarcerated when he
complained of various medical problems that were symptoms of diabetes. He filed
a tort claim reciting the “failure of the Department of Corrections to diagnose
and treat or allow claimant to maintain his ongoing medications. The
plaintiff's ensuing complaint was based on the failure to summon immediate,
competent medical care under section 845.6. The Nelson Court held:
 
 …as a matter of statutory interpretation, that
the act of a doctor or other such professional who, in the course of treatment
of a prisoner, fails to prescribe and/or provide the correct medication is
[not] the legal equivalent to a failure to summon medical care as set forth in
[§ 845.6].”  
 
…
 
Once a practitioner has been
summoned to examine and treat a prisoner, he or she is under a duty to
exercise that degree of diligence, care, and skill such as is ordinarily
possessed by other members of the profession. Failure to do so is malpractice.
[Citation.] Failure of a practitioner to prescribe or provide necessary
medication or treatment to one he or she has been summoned to assist is a
breach of such duty and as such is also medical malpractice
and clearly, as a matter of the plain meaning of the statutory
language, cannot be characterized as a failure to summon medical care.
 
            (Nelson, supra,
139 Cal.App.3d at p. 81.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant argues that to establish this cause of action, Plaintiff cannot rely
on evidence of negligence in the provision of medical care. Rather, Plaintiff
must establish a failure to summon medical care.   
 
To show that
no reasonable juror could conclude the Deputy Defendants breached a mandatory
duty by failing to summon timely medical care or failing to perform a medical
or mental health evaluation, Defendant submitted evidence that despite
receiving multiple mental evaluations by a psychologist, psychiatrist and
psychiatric social worker, no medical professional concluded that Plaintiff was
gravely disabled or was a danger to himself or others if housed in general
population. (See SS 25-43.) 
 
However, as
set forth above, Plaintiff submitted evidence in opposition showing that Judge
Daniel J. Lowenthal of the Los Angeles County Superior Court in Long Beach
issued an order for a mental health examination and specified: “Defendant has a
history of bipolar disorder, needs appropriate treatment.” (LASD 162) This
order was faxed to the LASD on September 25, 2019, and September 26, 2019.
(LASD 162) Despite this order, Mr. Reed remained in Module 2200 at MCJ, without
a mental health examination and without appropriate treatment, for well over 24
hours. On September 27, 2019, Mr. Reed was punched approximately 10-16 times in
the face by inmates who described Mr. Reed as “mentally ill” “crazy” and not
having “taken his medication.” (LASD 38.) Plaintiff did not see a mental health
professional until October 3, 2019.
 
Plaintiff
also submitted evidence which seriously called into question the soundness of
the care provided to him. However, as set forth above, there is a distinction
between failure to summon medical care—for which custody personnel can be held
liable under section 845.6—and negligence in providing care—for which custody
personnel are immune. (Castaneda, supra, 212 Cal. App. 4th at p.
1071.) As such, this evidence cannot speak to whether or not Defendants’ failed
to summon medical care. 
 
Still, the
remaining evidence set forth by Plaintiff supports a triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether or not Defendants failed to timely summon medical
care, and thus is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden at summary judgment. 
 
III.           
Safety Checks
 
Defendant
argues that “[t]he Deputy Defendants are entitled to summary judgment on the
second cause of action because no reasonable juror could conclude that custody
personnel breached a mandatory duty to perform timely safety checks. Moreover,
Plaintiff cannot establish that Deputy Defendants failed to perform a timely
safety check or that the failure to perform a safety check was the proximate
cause of his alleged harm.” (Motion, 16: 5-9.) 
 
Section 815.6
provides: “Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an
enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of
injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately
caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes
that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” Section 815.6
requires the mandatory duty be “designed” to protect against the particular
kind of injury the plaintiff suffered. (Haggis v. City of Los Angeles (2000)
22 Cal. 4th 490.) If the benefit is merely “incidental” to the enactment’s
protective purpose, the enactment cannot serve as a predicate for liability
under section 815.6. (Nunn v. State of California (1984) 35 Cal.3d 616,
626.)
 
Cal. Admin.
Code, Title 15, § 1027.5 provides in pertinent part:
 
The facility
administrator shall develop and implement policy and procedures for conducting
safety checks that include, but are not limited to, the following:
                        
(a)  
Safety checks will determine the safety
and well-being of individuals and shall be conducted at least hourly through
direct visual observation of all people held and housed in the facility
(b)  There
shall be no more than a 60-minute lapse between safety checks. 
(c)  
Safety checks for people in sobering
cells, safety cells, and restraints shall occur more frequently as outlined in
section 1055, section 1056, and section 1058 of these regulations.
(d)  Safety
checks shall occur at random or varied intervals.
(e)  
There shall be a written plan that
includes the documentation of all safety checks. Documentation shall include:
1.     
the actual time at which each
individual safety check occurred;
2.     
the location where each individual
safety check occurred, such as a cell, module, or dormitory number; and,
3.     
Initials or employee identification
number of staff who completed the safety check(s)
4.     
A documented process by which safety
checks are reviewed at regular defined intervals by a supervisor or facility
manager, including methods of mitigating patterns of inconsistent
documentation, or untimely completion of, safety checks.
 
To show that
Defendants did not violate a mandatory duty under Section 815.6, Defendants
submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
Title 15, § 1027.5 requires that safety
checks be conducted at least hourly through direct visual observation of all
inmates. Under LASD Policy, safety checks are conducted every thirty (30)
minutes. (SS 44.) 
 
-        
There is no documentary evidence in the
LASD safety check logs to suggest that custody personnel violated Title 15
safety check protocols in the modules where Plaintiff was housed in 2019. (SS
45.) 
 
-        
Title 15 safety checks are not an
effective tool for preventing inmate fights within the module because inmates
can hear the security gates opening in the module before each check is
performed. (SS 46.) 
 
-        
Inmates usually time their physical
altercations between each safety check or stop fighting the moment custody
personnel can be heard entering the module to perform the safety check. (SS
47.) 
 
-        
The frequency and duration of safety
checks would not have been a contributing factor to Plaintiff’s physical
altercations during the three (3) incidents in 2019. (SS 48.) 
 
-        
The fact that custody personnel became
alerted to Plaintiff’s condition shortly after each physical altercation
demonstrates that the Title 15 safety checks were being performed regularly and
served the intended purpose, identifying an issue impacting Plaintiff’s safety
and welfare. (SS 49.)
 
Defendants’
evidence supports a reasonable inference that safety checks were performed in
compliance with Title 15. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
disclose a triable issue of material fact. 

 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the safety checks were not timely and
adequately conducted. However, in support, Plaintiff only argues that
Defendants have failed to produce video evidence in Defendants’ exclusive
control, and that this supports a negative inference. However, as concluded in
the Court’s 5/28/2024 ruling to Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses,
Plaintiff has not shown that Defendants are withholding any existing videos.
Rather, there was no evidence that any surveillance footage depicting the Title
15 safety checks before each incident was booked into evidence. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not shown any entitlement to a negative inference as to
Defendant’s compliance with safety checks. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not met his burden to show a triable issue as to whether or not
safety checks were properly conducted.  
 
IV.           
Increased Harm
 
Defendants
argue that “The individual Defendant Deputies are entitled to a judgment in
their favor on the negligence cause of action because there is no evidence upon
which a reasonable juror could conclude that they knew or should have known
Plaintiff was at risk of assault because of his mental illness. Likewise, there
is no evidence to establish Defendant Deputies were responsible for assigning
Plaintiff to the housing modules where the attacks occurred.” (Motion, 19:
19-23.) 
 
In support,
Defendants submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Custody personnel do not have
authority, knowledge, or the training necessary to make safety risk assessments
based on an inmate’s medical or mental health and do not have access to inmate
medical records. (SS 50.) 
 
-        
All safety risk determinations as to
whether an inmate is fit to be assigned to general population housing based on
a mental or medical condition are made by medical professionals at CHS. (SS 51.)

 
-        
After CHS determines that an inmate is
both medically and mentally fit to be housed in general population, custody
personnel at IRC will then assign the inmate to a specific housing unit in
general population based on the inmate’s security classification. An inmate’s
security classification is determined through an automated scoring process
based on a variety of factors such as the inmate’s age, nature of the charged
crime, criminal history, and prior disciplinary history, among other factors.
(SS 52.) 
 
-        
Custody personnel are responsible for
accessing and handling any issues pertaining to a heightened risk to the
inmate’s personal safety while in general population which are unrelated to an
inmate’s mental or medical health. (SS 53.) 
 
-        
When inmates are facing a heightened
safety risk, custody personnel can place in the inmate in administrative
segregation to mitigate this risk. (SS 54.) 
 
-        
Any time an inmate makes a request to
be placed in administrative segregation, the inmate will immediately be placed
in temporary administrative segregation outside of the general population
pending an investigation. (SS 55.) 
 
-        
A Sergeant is assigned to investigate
all inmate requests to be placed in administrative segregation whether it is
due to specific or vague threats against them or an affiliated group to which
they identify. During the investigation, the Sergeant will determine whether
there is a heightened risk to the inmate’s personal safety. Safety assessments
are more of an art than a science, particularly in close cases. (SS 56.) 
 
-        
Fights in the Men’s Central Jail are a
very common occurrence and all inmates housed within general population face
the risk of getting into a physical altercation with another inmate. (SS 57.) 
 
-        
In the absence of confirmed information
to suggest that an inmate is being specifically targeted for physical attack or
a request by an inmate to be placed in administrative investigation, inmates
involved in a fight are separated into new housing assignments to mitigate any
future risk of the inmates having contact with each other again. (SS 58.) 
 
-        
After each physical altercation, a
clear decision was made to re-assign Plaintiff to a different housing module to
reduce the risk Plaintiff would have a physical altercation with the involved
inmates again. (SS 59.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff’s physical appearance did not
create a heightened safety risk because he was 6’4 inches and 220 pounds (SS
60.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff never requested to be placed
in administrative segregation due to concerns about his personal safety. Given
that Plaintiff submitted a few administrative grievances, Plaintiff had the
ability to submit a grievance to request administrative segregation but did not
do so. (SS 61.) 
 
-        
If Plaintiff had requested
administrative segregation following one of the physical altercations, it would
have also been noted in the inmate injury report. However, there is no
indication that Plaintiff requested administrative segregation following the
incidents. (SS 62.) 
 
-        
There is no indication that Plaintiff
had been targeted for attack by other inmates prior to each physical
altercation. Rather, Plaintiff acted in a hostile or disrespectful manner which
prompted a spontaneous violent response from other inmates. (SS 63.) 
 
-        
There is no indication that Plaintiff
was a member of a gang or was being actively targeted by a specific gang for
attack. Inmates housed in general population are not assigned housing based on
race, religion, or gang affiliation. (SS 64.) 
 
-        
There is no indication that Plaintiff
was an informant or a witness testifying against another inmate. (SS 65.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff never notified custody
personnel about a specific threat or concern about his personal safety. (SS
66.) 
 
-        
CHS determined that Plaintiff did not
suffer from a medical or mental health issues which would have impacted his
safety in general population. (SS 67.) 
 
-        
There was no basis for custody
personnel to conclude that Plaintiff needed to be segregated from general
population based on a concern about his safety or that there was a heightened
risk to Plaintiff’s safety. (SS 68.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff’s Government Claim did not
allege medical personnel committed professional negligence in performing mental
health evaluations. (SS 69.) 
 
Defendants’
evidence supports a reasonable inference that the individual Deputy Defendants neither
knew or should have known Plaintiff was at risk of assault because of his
mental illness, or that they were responsible for assigning Plaintiff to the
housing modules where the attacks occurred. Accordingly, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
The evidence
submitted by Plaintiff in opposition supports a reasonable inference that the
individual Deputy Defendants knew or should have known Plaintiff was at risk of
assault because of his mental illness. This includes evidence set forth above
that Defendants had direct notice of Plaintiff’s mental health issues,
including the September 25, 2019 order from Judge Daniel J. Lowenthal and the
September 28,2019 complaint filed by Plaintiff’s mother, Joanna Reed. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied. Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the Title 15 safety checks
alone.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 