 Case Number:  24STCV01900    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LILLIAN H. MICHAELS, in and through her
  Guardian Ad Litem, John Michael,
  
        
  vs.
 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA HOSPITAL AT CULVER
  CITY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV01900    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 5, 2024




 
Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED:
 
-        
Defendant Alta Hospital
System LLCs’ demurrer specific to itself is OVERRULED. 
 
-        
All Defendants’ demurrer (including
Alta Hospital LLC) is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the first
cause of action, and overruled as to the third cause of action.
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED as to the punitive damages prayer, and moot as to
attorney fees. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference is GRANTED.
            
 
            On
1/24/2024, Plaintiff Lillian H. Michaels, in and through her Guardian Ad Litem,
John Michael (Plaintiff), filed a petition against Southern California Hospital
at Culver City, Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. dba Southern
California Hospital at Culver City, and Alta Hospitals System, LLC (Alta) (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence; and (3) willful
misconduct.
 
            On
5/28/2024, Defendants demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint as to all causes of
action against Alta and the first and third causes of action against the
remaining Defendants. Defendants also moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
            On
6/5/2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for trial preference.
 
            For
ease, the Court has consolidated its analysis of all motions into a single
ruling. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
Alta Hospital Systems LLC argues that Plaintiff is barred from pursuing a claim
against it arising from medical services rendered because Alta is statutorily
precluded from rendering professional services. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s
causes of action are insufficiently pled. 
 
            As
for the first contention, a business rendering “professional” services
requiring a license, registration or certification under the Business and
Professions Code cannot operate as an LLC unless expressly authorized by
statute. 
 
Pursuant to
Corp. Code, § 13401(a), “’[p]rofessional services’ means any type of
professional services that may be lawfully rendered only pursuant to a license,
certification, or registration authorized by the Business and Professions Code,
the Chiropractic Act, or the Osteopathic Act.”
 
 And pursuant to Corp. Code, § 17701.04(b),
“[a] domestic or foreign limited liability company may render services that may
be lawfully rendered only pursuant to a license [or] certificate . . .
authorized by the Business and Professions Code, the Chiropractic Act [or] the
Osteopathic Act, . . . if the applicable provisions of the Business and
Professions Code, the Chiropractic Act, [or] the Osteopathic Act . . .
authorize a limited liability company or foreign limited liability company to
hold that license [or] certificate. 
 
Finally,
pursuant to Corp. Code, § 17701.04(e), “[n]othing in this title shall be
construed to permit a domestic or foreign limited liability company to render
professional services, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 13401[.]”
 
            Accordingly,
given the language of sections 13401(a) and 17701.04(b) and (e), a business
that provides services requiring a license or certification pursuant to
Business and Professions Code may conduct its activities as a limited liability
company if the services rendered require only a nonprofessional, occupational
license. (87 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 109 (2004).)
 
Here, Defendant
argues that Defendant Alta Hospital System, LLC is statutorily precluded from
rendering professional services (i.e., medical services) based on these
provisions. 
 
            However,
in opposition, Plaintiff notes that it alleges a joint enterprise relationship
between Defendants, Alta Hospital System, LLC and Southern California Hospital
at Culver City, alleging that both share control of the operation and profits
of the facility. (Complaint ¶ 8.) Accordingly, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts at the pleading stage to show that “Defendant Alta Hospital Systems, LLC
is operating Southern California Hospital At Culver City as a joint enterprise
[and] therefore each wrongful act and omission from any joint venture which
controls Southern California Hospital At Culver City is subject to liability.”
(Opp., 15: 5-8.) 
 
            In
reply, Defendant argues that these allegations are inconsistent because Alta
Hospital Systems LLC cannot be engaged in any joint venture to render medical
services. However, the Court finds that determinations not appropriately made
at the pleading stage are necessary to determine whether or not Alta can be
said have joint control over a facility which does render medical services, and
thus be liable on that basis, even while it, itself, in isolation, could not
render medical services to support its liability. 
 
            The
Court now turns to the causes of actions asserted by all Defendants. 
 
            As
for the claim for elder and dependent adult abuse, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has failed to allege physical abuse or negligent with the requisite
particularity. The Court agrees. 
 
As defined
under Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.63, physical abuse of an elderly adult
includes: (1) battery as defined in Penal Code § 242 as any willful and
unlawful use of force or violence upon the person of another; (2) unreasonable
physical restraint, or prolonged or continual deprivation of food or water; or
(3) use of physical or chemical restraint or psychotropic medication for
punishment or for any unauthorized period or purpose. (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.63(b), (d), and (f).) 
 
Furthermore,
as defined under Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57(a), neglect means negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder to exercise that
degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.
Neglect includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of
food, clothing, or shelter; failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs; failure to protect from health and safety hazards; and
failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.57(b).
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants: (1) pushed Plaintiff to perform exercises in
physical therapy sessions despite her diagnosis of bursitis and complaints of
pain, (2) failed to document her fall which occurred on July 8, 2022 and failed
to report it to the physician resulting in her undergoing surgical debridement,
(3) understaffed and undertrained nursing staff, and (4) violated regulatory
provisions of C.C.R. §§ 70215, 70217, and 70263. Even accepted as true, these
allegations could not show neglect or abuse. Rather, they show negligence. 
 
As to the
cause of action for willful conduct, Defendants argue that this is not a
cognizable legal theory of liability but rather an element of a theory of
liability. The Court disagrees. The Court looks to the substance of the cause
of action, rather than the title affixed to the claim. Here, Defendants
themselves set forth the elements that Plaintiff must prove in order to prevail
on this claim: “In order to establish willful misconduct, plaintiff must prove
not only the elements of a negligence cause of action, that is, duty, breach of
duty, causation, and damage, but also: (1) actual or constructive knowledge of
the peril to be apprehended; (2) actual or constructive knowledge that injury
is probable, as opposed to a possible, result of the danger; and (3) conscious
failure to act to avoid the peril. (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn.,
Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1140.) Given that Plaintiff must establish
elements here that would not be established through the ordinary negligence
claim, it is not duplicative. Moreover, Defendants is on notice of the theory
of liability being advanced by this claim.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to Alta. Defendants’ demurrer
is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend, as to the first cause of action, and
overruled as to the third cause of action. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and attorney fees and
costs. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees the provisions should be struck. 
 
            As
for the first contention, Plaintiff has failed to comply with the procedures
set forth in CCP section 415.13(a). CCP section 425.13(a) provides in relevant
part: 
 
In any action
for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider,
no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other
pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that
includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the
party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not complied with the statutory requirement under CCP section §
425.13(a) of obtaining a court order to allow for a punitive damages claim in
the Complaint. While Plaintiff argues that her allegations are sufficient to
satisfy section 425.13, section 415.13 clearly requires a separate motion to be
filed. 
 
            As
for the second contention, Plaintiff’s attorney fees claim is based on her
Elder Abuse claim. As set forth above, the Court found that claim
insufficiently pled. Given that leave to amend was granted, Defendants’ motion
is moot as to this request. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted as to the punitive
damages prayer, and moot as to attorney fees. 
 
Motion for Trial Preference 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks trial preference pursuant to CCP section 36a, given her age (86 years)
and her health. Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition, but requested that
the Court “set the Trial date in this matter as close as possible to the nine
month period of time provided for healthcare providers from the date of the
hearing on this matter, late March of 2025.” (Non-Opp., 2: 3-5.) The Court
grants both requests. 
            
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 