 Case Number:  23STCV10612    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ARPIN
  MANOUSADJIAN 
                           
         vs.
 
FARMERS
  GROUP, INC, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV10612  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 5, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
            On
5/11/2023, Plaintiff Arpin Manousadjian (Plaintiff) filed suit against Farmers
Group, Inc. and Farmers Insurance Exchange, alleging: (1) breach of contract;
and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
            On
3/25/2025, Plaintiff dismissed Farmers Group, Inc. from the action.
 
            Now,
Farmers Insurance Exchange (Defendants) moves for summary judgment, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that summary judgment is appropriate here because the undisputed
evidence establishes that there is no coverage for the alleged loss here (i.e.,
the collapse of a balcony wall due to water intrusion damage) as a matter of
law. 
 
            Here,
Defendant issued Farmers Smart Plan Home® policy number 32810-87-42 (Policy) to
Plaintiff Arpin Manousadjian and David Manousadjian[1]
of Montebello. The Policy explained:
 
For a lower
premium, this Farmers Smart Plan Home® policy offers less coverage than is
available in the Farmers Next Generation® Homeowners product. If you qualify
under Farmers® underwriting guidelines, you may be eligible to purchase
enhanced coverage in the Next Generation Homeowners product for an additional
premium. You may contact your Farmers® agent for additional details.
 
            (COE,
Ex. 1 at FIE 000741.)
 
            The
Policy further provides:
 
6. Building
structure - means a structure which is a building that is fully enclosed
with walls and a roof. A roof or wall does not include a temporary roof or wall
structure or any kind of temporary tarp, sheeting or other covering, unless it
has been installed temporarily due to recent damage covered by this policy and then
only for a reasonable amount of time to repair the recent damage.
 
            The
Insuring Agreement provides: 
 
Section I
- Loss or Damage Insured
 
 Coverage A (Dwelling), Coverage B (Separate
Structures), and Coverage C (Personal Property) 
 
We insure
accidental direct physical loss or damage to that property described in Section
I - Types of Property Insured….
 
 …
 
Loss or
damage to property is caused by perils (causes of loss or damage). This policy
does not insure loss or damage to covered property directly or indirectly
caused by, arising out of, or resulting from the excluded causes of loss or
damage set forth in Section I - Uninsured Types of Loss or Damage and Excluded
Causes of Loss or Damage, whether the excluded cause of loss or damage occurs
on or away from the residence premises. 
 
We do not
provide Loss of Use or any Extensions of Coverage for any uninsured type of
loss or damage or any excluded cause of loss or damage, unless specifically
provided otherwise
 
            (COE,
Exh. 1 at FIE 000750.) 
 
The Policy
contain these relevant extensions of coverage:
 
            Section I - Extensions of Coverage
 
We will
insure you for the Extensions of Coverage as described below except as
otherwise shown in the Declarations. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following
Extensions of Coverage are subject to all the policy terms, exclusions,
deductibles, and conditions, including without limitation the terms and
limitations of any uninsured loss or damage or excluded cause of loss or damage
set forth in Section I - Uninsured Loss or Damage and Excluded Causes of Loss
or Damage and in any other Extension of Coverage.
 
1.     
Limited Water Coverage
a.     
We provide limited coverage for
accidental, direct, distinct, and demonstrable, physical water damage of
covered property from direct contact with water, but only if the water results
from:
…  
 
(2) hail,
rain, snow, or sleet entering a building structure through an opening in the
roof or wall of a building structure, and only if the opening is first caused
by damage from the direct force of the following:
 
i.                   
fire; 
ii.                
lightning;
iii.              
explosion resulting from combustion
(other than nuclear explosion);
iv.              
riot or civil commotion; 
v.                 
aircraft or vehicles;
vi.              
vandalism or malicious mischief; 
vii.            
collapse of a building structure or
structural part of the building structure; 
viii.          
falling objects; 
ix.              
wind;
x.                 
hail;
xi.              
 theft or attempted theft.
… 
 
10. Collapse
of Building Structure or Structural Part of the Building Structure.
 
We cover loss
or damage to covered property caused by collapse of a building structure or any
structural part of the building structure, or of a patio cover, carport cover,
deck, or the like, attached to the exterior of the building structure. The
collapse must be a direct result of:
 
a.     
weight of ice, snow, sleet, or rain
that collects on a roof;
 
b.     
weight of persons, animals, personal
property, or equipment; or
 
c.     
defective methods or materials used in
construction, repair, remodeling, or renovation, but only if the collapse
occurs in the course of such construction, repair, remodeling, or renovation.
 
The collapse
must be a sudden, abrupt, and accidental, actual and complete falling down of
the building structure or of a structural part of the building structure, or of
a patio cover, carport cover, deck, or the like, attached to the exterior of
the building structure. A structural part of a building structure means a part
of the building structure, which if it fell down, would threaten the structural
integrity of the building structure. Substantial impairment of a building
structure or structural part of a building structure, or of a patio cover,
carport cover, deck or the like attached to the exterior of the building
structure, without a sudden, abrupt and accidental, actual and complete falling
down is not a collapse. Collapse does not mean imminent or threatened collapse.
Collapse does not include bending, sagging, bowing, leaning, movement,
settling, cracking, bulging, shrinkage, heaving or expansion, whether natural
or otherwise, of the building structure or a structural part of the building
structure, or of a patio cover, carport cover, deck or the like attached to the
exterior of the building structure, unless an actual and complete falling down
has occurred. This Collapse Extension of Coverage does not apply to separate
structures which are not building structures.
 
For purposes
of this Extension of Coverage only, a building structure means a structure with
at least one wall, but fully covered by a roof.
 
This is not
additional insurance. All loss or damage in this Extension of Coverage is
subject to the applicable Coverage A, B, or C stated limit or any Special
Limits on Certain Personal Property.
 
            (COE,
Ex. 1 at FIE 00759.)
 
            The
Policy then sets forth these uninsured losses and excluded causes of loss or
damage: 
 
Section I -
Uninsured Loss or Damage and Excluded Causes of Loss or Damage
 
A. Uninsured
Types of Loss or Damage.
 
 
We do not
insure property covered by this policy, provide Loss of Use coverage or extend
coverage in any Extensions of Coverage, for any loss or damage consisting or
composed of any of the uninsured types of loss or damage listed below, whether
on or off the residence premises, however caused, whether the loss or damage
occurred immediately or over time, or is the result of, a natural or man-made
activity, condition, or event, except as may be stated otherwise.
 
Uninsured
types of loss or damage are never covered regardless of whether any acts, omissions,
or decisions of any persons, group, organization, association, or governmental
body, or any other cause of loss or event contributes concurrently, or in any
combination or sequence, to cause the uninsured type of loss or damage, except
as may be stated otherwise.
 
Uninsured
types of loss or damage can occur in combination with insured loss or damage.
If any uninsured type of loss or damage does occur in combination with or in
sequence to insured loss or damage, the uninsured type of loss or damage is not
covered. If the insured loss or damage and uninsured loss or damage cannot be
physically segregated from each other for any reason, including by way of
example but not limited to what perils caused the loss or damage or the extent
or timing of the loss or damage caused by individual perils, then none of the
loss or damage will be insured by this policy.
 
1.     
Water Damage
 
We do not
insure loss or damage which consists of, is composed of or which is water
damage, except as covered in Section I - Extensions of Coverage, Limited Water
Coverage or unless if caused by fire or lightning.
 
…
 
3.
Construction Defect 
 
We do not
insure loss or damage that is a construction defect in the dwelling or a
separate structure, except as covered in Section I - Extensions of Coverage,
Collapse of Building Structure or Structural Part of the Building Structure, or
unless if by fire or lightning.       
 
4. Inherent
Vice or Latent Defect.
 
We do not
insure loss or damage that is an inherent vice or latent defect in covered property
 
… 
 
                        B.
Excluded Causes of Loss or Damage
 
                        Except
as provided elsewhere in this policy, we do not:
 
a.      insure
property covered by this policy;
b.      provide
Loss of Use coverage; or
c.      extend
coverage in any Extensions of Coverage;
 
for loss or
damage that directly or indirectly is caused by, arises out of, or results
from, any of the excluded causes of loss or damage listed below, whether the
loss or damage occurs on or away from the residence premises. Acts or omissions
of persons or other causes or other events can cause, contribute to, combine
with, or aggravate any of the excluded causes of loss or damage to cause loss
or damage. Loss or damage caused by an excluded cause of loss or damage is not
covered, regardless of any acts, omissions, or decisions of any persons, group,
organization, association, or governmental body or any other causes or other
events that aggravate or contribute concurrently, or in any combination or
sequence, with the excluded cause of loss or damage.
 
If covered
and excluded causes of loss or damage each cause loss or damage to property
such that the resulting damage is indistinguishable, except as to the timing or
sequence of the causes of the damage, then none of the loss or damage is
insured by this policy.
 
Excluded
Causes of Loss or Damage are excluded whether they are, or are the result of,
natural or man-made activities, conditions, or events. Excluded Causes of Loss
or Damage apply to exclude the loss or damage arising from, or as a result of,
the excluded activity, condition, or event, whether the loss or damage is
direct or indirect, or immediate or consequential.
 
            (COE
Exh. 1.) 
 
I.                  
Breach of Contract 
 
            In
support of its contention that there was no covered loss under the Policy,
Defendant submitted the following facts: 
 
-        
On about February 3, 2023, a portion of
the balustrade surrounding the second-floor exterior balcony at the insured
property suddenly fell down. (SS 2.) 
 
-        
The balcony itself is still intact. (SS
3.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff reported the incident to
Farmers on February 6, 2023, and asked Farmers to pay for repairs. (SS 4.) 
 
-        
The Farmers claims representative
assigned to the claim, Leo Hernandez, immediately contacted the insured and
Service Master and arranged for Service Master to inspect the property and take
photos. (SS 5.) 
 
-        
The insured declined to allow Service
Master to inspect her property and asked Mr. Hernandez to refrain from doing
anything, which he did. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
On February 14, 2023, Mr. Hernandez
received a call from Jake Corbin of So Cal Restoration Pros, a mitigation
contractor, advising that Plaintiff had asked him to look at her balcony. Mr.
Corbin took many photos of the insured property and balcony area, and sent Mr.
Hernandez 28 photos from his inspection (SS 7.) 
 
-        
On February 14, 2023, after he had
spoken to Mr. Corbin and carefully examined the photos he received from So Cal
Restoration, Mr. Hernandez communicated with Plaintiff by phone and by letter
to tell her that the loss was not covered because the investigation revealed a
partial collapse of portions of the balcony caused by wear and tear, rot and
water damage. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
Wear and tear, rot, water damage and
collapse are all uninsurable under the Policy. (SS 9.) 
 
-        
Farmers hired Jonathan Glassman of
Exponent, a structural engineer, to speak to the Plaintiff, inspect the
balcony, take photos, and provide an opinion as to the cause of the loss, and
as to Plaintiff’s contention that the loss was caused by the weight of rain.
Mr. Glassman concluded: “The failure of the railing along the south portion of
the subject balcony was the result of long-term deterioration of the sheathing
and wood framing due to repeated wettings from water intrusion.” (SS 11.) 
 
-        
Mr. Glassman researched the history of
the rainfall in the vicinity of Plaintiff’s property, and concluded that
“Rainfall from any particular storm event was not a significant factor
contributing to the failure.” (SS 12.) 
 
 
Taken
together, Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that the loss
alleged is not covered. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that “the loss was abrupt and sudden. The balcony collapsed. Property
damage is covered under the insurance policy. The balcony collapsed, and the
damage to the balcony was abrupt and sudden. Plaintiff believes that the loss
was caused by the weight of rain which collected on the building. There were
heavy rains in the months leading up to the balcony collapse.” (Complaint ¶
10.) 
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that the patio/cover balcony is still
standing, and that there was only a sudden falling of the front portion of the
balustrade wall. The “collapse” provision of the Policy requires an “actual and
complete falling down of the building structure or of a … patio cover ….” As
further explained in the policy: 
 
Substantial
impairment of a building structure or structural part of a building structure,
or of a patio cover, carport cover, deck, or the like, attached to the exterior
of the building structure, without a sudden, abrupt, and accidental, actual and
complete falling down is  a collapse.
Collapse does not mean imminent or threatened collapse. Collapse does not include
bending, sagging, bowing, leaning, movement, settling, cracking, bulging,
shrinkage, heaving, or expansion, whether natural or otherwise, of the building
structure or a structural part of the building structure, or of a patio cover,
carport cover, deck, or the like, attached to the exterior of the building
structure, unless an actual and complete falling down has occurred.
 
            (COE,
Exh. 1.) 
 
            Moreover,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that, even assuming there
was a total collapse, that the alleged loss would still not be covered under
the policy. Coverage is limited under the Smart Plan Home policy, so that a
complete and actual, sudden and accidental collapse will only be covered if it
is a “direct result” of one of these conditions: 
a.
weight of ice, snow, sleet, or rain that collects on a roof; 
b.
weight of persons, animals, personal property, or equipment; or 
c. defective
methods or materials used in construction, repair, remodeling, or renovation,
but only if the collapse occurs in the course of such construction, repair,
remodeling, or renovation.
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that a structural engineer inspected the balcony
and concluded that “rainfall from any particular storm event was not a
significant factor contributing to the failure.” (SS 12.) 
 
Finally,
Defendant submitted evidence that a portion of the balustrades around the deck
at Plaintiff’s home fell as a result of long-term deterioration of the
sheathing and wood framing due to repeated wettings from water intrusion. (SS
8.) Deterioration is an excluded loss under the policy, as is loss caused by
water except where it was caused by the melting of a build up of ice on the
roof or “hail, rain, snow, or sleet entering a building structure through an
opening in the roof or wall of a building structure, and only if the opening is
first caused by damage from the direct force of … [various perils including
fire, lightning, collapse, falling objects, windstorm, hail].” (COE Ex. 1 at
000753.) 
 
Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue as to the breach of
contract claim. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence to show that the collapse of the
balustrade of the balcony constitutes a total collapse under the policy, and
that the collapse was caused by the weight of rain collected on the
balcony.  
 
More
specifically, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
o  
The balcony fell into pieces and
collapsed. (RSS No. 2.) 
 
o  
Defendant’s assertion that the loss was
covered by excluded perils is based solely on an inspection by their expert,
which took place over nine months after the loss occurred. The broken wood
framing of the balcony and balustrades has been exposed to the weather,
including rain, for nine months. The discoloration that Defendant’s expert
found during the inspection, which he claims shows that the damage was due to
long-term deterioration, took place after the loss.
 
o  
The collapse was due to the weight of
rain which collected on the building. 
 
Property
insurance may be written on an “open peril” (formerly “all risk”) basis,
covering all losses not expressly excluded in the policy; or on a “named
perils” (or “specified perils”) basis, covering physical loss from certain
causes only (e.g., fire, windstorm, hail). (See Garvey v. State Farm Fire
& Cas. Co. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 395, 406.) 
 
Here,
Coverage A of the Policy states: “We insure accidental direct physical loss or
damage to that property described in Section I - Types of Property Insured…
This policy does not insure covered property for the types of loss or damage described
in Section I - Uninsured Loss or Damage and Excluded Causes of Loss or Damage.”
(PAF #16.) This is analogous to the language used in other “all risk” insurance
policies. (See EOTT Energy Corp. v. Storebrand Int'l Ins. Co. (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 565, 569 (“[A]ll risks of direct physical loss or damage occurring
during the [policy period] from any external cause,” except as specifically
excluded).)
 
Because the
Policy was an “all risk” policy, the burden on the insured in this situation is
usually minimal, typically requiring proof only that the insured suffered a
“direct physical loss” (or “accidental direct physical loss”) while the policy
was in effect (See Central Nat'l Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Spindt)
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 926, 932.) The burden then shifts to the insurer to prove
that the loss was caused by an excluded peril. (Garvey, supra, 48
Cal.3d 395, 406.)
 
Here, the
policy specifically covers the collapse of “a building structure or any
structural part of the building structure.” (PAF #22 [emphasis added].)
Plaintiff’s pictures indicate a complete collapse of the balustrades. Given
that the balustrades are a structural part of the building structure, the Court
agrees there is at least a triable issue of material fact as to whether or not
there was a covered “collapse” under the Policy. 
 
However, the
policy (as is relevant here) only covers collapses which are the direct result
of the “weight of ice, snow, sleet, or rain that collects on a roof.” Here,
Plaintiff claims that the collapse was “due to the weight of rain which
collected on the building.” However, the only evidence cited in support is
Exhibit 6 which are Plaintiff’s own supplemental responses to Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories. Plaintiff’s own contention that he “believes” that the
loss was caused by the weight of the rain which collected on the building is
insufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden. While Plaintiff submitted evidence
that Governor Newsom declared a state of emergency on 1/4/2023 related to
severe winter storms related to a series of atmospheric river systems in
California, Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence to actually show a causal
relationship between these storms and the collapse of the balcony. 
 
Similarly,
Plaintiff argues that there was no signs of wear and tear prior to the
collapse, and there were no cracks or water stains on the balcony prior to the
collapse. However, the only support for these contentions are Plaintiff’s own
Supplemental Special Interrogatory responses in which Plaintiff asserts,
without additional support:
 
The loss was
abrupt and sudden. The balcony collapsed. Plaintiff takes care of the house.
The house members did not use the balcony often. There were no signs of wear
and tear prior to the collapse. There were no cracks or water stain on the
balcony prior to the collapse.
 
            (Supplemental
Response to Interrogatory No. 6)
 
Wear and
tear, rot, and water damage are not covered under the Policy. Plaintiff’s
personal belief, unsupported by any additional evidence, that the balcony collapses
due to the weight of rain collected on the building is insufficient to support
a reasonable inference that it did so. This is especially true given that
Defendant submitted expert testimony based on an actual inspection of the
property concluding that “Rainfall from any particular storm event was not a
significant factor contributing to the failure.”
 
Accordingly,
while Plaintiff has submitted evidence which could support a reasonable
inference that there was a collapse within the meaning of the policy, Plaintiff
has not submitted evidence that could support a reasonable inference that the
collapse was caused by a covered cause, i.e., “weight of ice, snow, sleet, or
rain that collects on a roof.”
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not met his burden of proof to disclose a triable issue of
material fact as to this cause of action. 
 
II.              
 Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing  
 
In order to
establish a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a
plaintiff must prove a withholding of benefits actually due, and that the
carrier withheld these benefits unreasonably and without proper cause. (Love
v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151-52.) As the
California Supreme Court has explained:
 
 It is clear that if there is no…[coverage
under the policy], there can be no action for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing because the covenant is based on the contractual
relationship between the insured and the insurer.
 
(Waller
v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 36.)
 
Given the
Court’s conclusion that there is no triable issue as to the breach of contract
claim, there is necessarily no triable issue as to the breach of the implied
covenant claim.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 


