 Case Number:  22STCV34846    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  17 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT
17 
 



JENNIFER
  A. AYLWARD, an individual, 
 
                       
  Plaintiff, 
   
        
  vs. 
 
BRINKER
  INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Delaware corporation, et al., 
 
                       
  Defendants. 


 Case
  No.:   22STCV34846 
 
  
 
 Hearing
  Date: July 5, 2024 




 


 



 
Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to harassment (13th
COA) and failure to allow inspection of personnel file (16th COA).
Summary adjudication is DENIED as to all remaining claims.
 
On
November 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Brinker International, Inc.,
Brinker International Payroll Co. LP, Brinker Restaurant Corporation, and Paul
Aoun, alleging: 
 
1.   
Disability Discrimination in Violation
of FEHA; 
2.   
Wrongful Discharge in Violation of
Public Policy; 
3.   
Failure to Accommodate Disability in
Violation of Government Code § 12940(m); 
4.   
Failure to Engage in Interactive
Process, California Government Code section 12940(n); 
5.   
Retaliation Under FEHA; 
6.   
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Harassment; 
7.   
Discriminatory Termination/Interference
in Violation of California Family Rights Act, California Government Code §
12945.2; 
8.   
Retaliation for Exercising the Right to
CFRA Leave Under Government Code § 12945.2; 
9.   
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy Based Upon CFRA 
10.                      
Retaliation for Exercising the Right to
CFRA Leave Under Government Code § 12945.2; 
11.                      
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code
§ 232.5; 
12.                      
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code
§ 1102.5; 
13.                      
Harassment Based on Disability in
Violation of FEHA; 
14.                      
Declaratory Relief; 
15.                      
Injunctive Relief; 
16.                      
Failure to Allow Inspection of
Personnel File; and 
17.                      
Unfair Business Practices. 
 
On 4/18/2024,
Defendants moved for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
CCP section 437c, subdivision (q)
provides:
In granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the
motion shall be preserved for appellate review.
 
In light of
CCP section 437c, subdivision (q), the Court overrules Objection to Wynne
Declaration Nos. 8 and 10. The Court sustains Objection to Plaintiff’s Decl.
No. 57. 
 
The Court
declines to rule on the remaining submitted objections. 
 
Factual Background
 
This action arises out of
Plaintiff’s period of employment working as General Manager at Brinker’s
Manhattan Beach Chili’s location.  
 
Discussion  
 
I.                  
Disability Discrimination
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of disability
discrimination, and that they had legitimate non-discriminatory reasons for
terminating her. 
 
To establish
a prima facie case of disability discrimination claim, Plaintiff must prove
she: (1) had a disability or was regarded as having a disability; (2) could
perform the essential duties of her job with or without reasonable
accommodations; and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because
of her disability or perceived disability. (Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc.
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 310.) 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish that she was regarded as having a
disability, that she was otherwise a qualified individual performing her role,
or any nexus between an established disability and the adverse employment
action.
 
In support,
Defendant submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
On May 14, 2022 Aoun forwarded an email
to Plaintiff from Brinker’s Regional Vice President of Operations, Dale
Bullotta, which identified Manhattan Beach as underperforming. (SS 32.)
 
-        
On May 15, 2022 Plaintiff responded to
Aoun’s email with an email of her own wherein she stated she was “mentally and
physically hurting,” that she was having “some type of anxiety attack” which
prevented her from walking, notified Aoun that she was taking the next five
days off work and was utilizing vacation day to do so, and asked to further
discuss her concerns with Aoun upon her return from vacation. (SS 33.) 
 
However, in
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
On March 22, 2022, Aylward sent a text
message to Aoun that said: “I’m going to leave soon after Lily gets here. My
back is pretty messed up right now and I can barely move/walk.” Aylward Decl. ¶
42, Ex. 150. (RSS 33.) 
 
-        
On April 18, 2022, Aylward sent email
Aoun and said: “I cooked for 6 Sundays in a row in order to help create sales
but in order to preserve my health and quality of life I cannot continue on
this path.” Aylward Decl. ¶ 43, Ex. 337. (RSS 33.)
 
-        
Plaintiff’s May 15, 2022 email did not
write that “she was having ‘some type of anxiety attack’ which occasionally
prevented her from walking.” Rather, she wrote: 
 
I
literally cannot walk sometimes and have been having some type of anxiety
attack. The ONLY way we've been able to get the sales we've had for the last
couple months is because the management team has been working long hours in
hourly functions.
 
(RSS
33.) 
 
FEHA
regulations make no reference to the duration of an impairment. (Diaz v.
Federal Express Corp. (C.D. Cal. 2005) 373 F.Supp.2d 1034, 1051 [holding
that anxiety or depression of a “temporary” nature can constitute a disability
because FEHA contains no durational limitation. Moreover, the FEHA regulations
state that even “mild” conditions must be determined on a case-by-case basis –
and the examples of mild conditions are the “common cold; seasonal or common
influenza; minor cuts, sprains, muscle aches, soreness, bruises, or
abrasions….” (Cal. Code Regs. tit. 2, §11065(d)(B).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s evidence at least supports a reasonable inference that she could
not walk or sleep and was having frequent anxiety attacks during a period from
early 2022 until the end of June 2012, and that this rose to level of a physical
and/or mental disability under FEHA. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 245, 259 [triable issue as to whether stress constituted a
disability, based only on her own declaration that she had “anxiety,
nervousness, depression, lack of confidence, a helpless feeling, a feeling of
humiliation, headaches, teeth grinding, nightmares, sleeplessness, and panic
attacks”)
 
            As
for the qualified individual factor, Defendants rely on performance issues to
contend that Plaintiff was not qualified to perform her job duties. (Motion
17:5-9.) However, this contention is only relevant as to whether she was
terminated based on non-discriminatory reasons. It would not defeat the prima
facie showing that she was qualified in the first instance. (See e.g.
Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 322 [“inadequate
job performance” is considered in the later stages of the McDonnell-Douglas
framework, not in the prima facie stage]; Caldwell v. Paramount Unif. Sch.
Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 199–200 & fn. 6.)
 
            Finally,
as for the causal nexus factor, Plaintiff needs merely to raise a triable issue
as to whether her disability or its manifestation were a “substantial
motivating factor” in the termination decision. (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Ca1.4th 203, 232.) A “substantial motivating reason” is
more than a remote or trivial reason.” But, it does not have to be the only
reason motivating the [termination decision].” (CACI Instructions (2024 Ed.)
Instr. No. 2507.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
In February/March 2022, Aylward told
Aoun the facts underlying her physical and emotional issues. (RSS 25-27.)
 
-        
After receiving no support, Plaintiff
directly emailed Sara Phinny in Human Resources and Dale Bullotta (Auon’s
Boss), informing them about her mental and physical issues in the May 15, 2022
email. 
 
-        
Aoun met with Aylward on May 28, 2022,
at her request to discuss her May 15 Email. (SAF 53, 54.) 
 
-        
Aoun, having learned of this email to
his superiors, then prepared a write up—called a Performance Discussion
Worksheet (PDW)—which he then backdated to May 28, 2022. In the PDW,
Aoun set out goals which Plaintiff was to meet “immediately.” 
 
-        
Two weeks later, Plaintiff was
terminated after failing to meet these goals. 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference of a causal nexus between Plaintiff’s
disability and the adverse employment action. 
 
Under the McDonnell Douglas framework, the
employer must carry the burden of showing the employee's action has no merit.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) It may do so with evidence that
either: (1) indicates “that one or
more of plaintiff’s prima facie elements is lacking,” or (2) shows some legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for the action taken against the employee. (Caldwell, supra, 41
Cal.App.4th at 203.) 
 
If defendant
meets its burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff to produce
substantial evidence that the employer’s showing was untrue or pretextual by
raising at least an inference of discrimination or retaliation. (Hersant v. California Department of Social
Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997,
1004-1005.) “In short, by applying McDonnell Douglas’s shifting burdens
of production in the context of a motion for summary judgment, ‘the judge
[will] determine whether the litigants have created an issue of fact to be
decided by the jury.’ [Citation.]” (Caldwell,
supra, 41 Cal.App.4th at 203.)
 
Having met
her burden to state a prima facie case, the burden shifts to Defendants to show
some legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason for the action taken against the employee. In their motion,
Defendant submitted considerable evidence to show that Plaintiff was terminated
based on her continued under-performance. (SS 14-20, 22-32, 40-41, 46-48.)
Defendants’ evidence clearly supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiff was
terminated for legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reasons.
 
However, the Court also concludes that Plaintiff has met her burden to submit
evidence which could show that the employer’s
showing was untrue or pretextual. In support, Plaintiff submitted evidence that
Aoun backdated the PDW. Plaintiff also submitted evidence from a former General
Manager of a Brinker location, Necora Wynne, who stated that the goal
expectations set in Plaintiff’s PDW were unrealistic. (Wynne Decl., ¶ 10.) In further
support, Plaintiff also submitted evidence that the new manager hired to
replace Plaintiff was also unable, even after six months, to meet the $71,100
per week goal set for Plaintiff (which resulted in Plaintiff’s termination).
(SAF 133.34.) 
 
Plaintiff
also submitted “me too” evidence from Ms. Wynne and from Lillian Sanchez. While
Defendant objects to both declarations as insufficiently similar, the Court
disagrees as to Ms. Wynne. Ms. Wynne stated that she was similarly terminated
for a failure to meet performance goals only a few months after returning from
leave by Aoun. (Wynne Decl., ¶ 10.) At the very least, this supports a
reasonable inference that Aoun had a pattern of placing unattainable
performance metrics on employees who took medical leave, and then used those as
pretext for termination.
 
In sum, the
Court concludes a triable issue of material fact exists as to the disability
discrimination claim. 
 
II.              
FEHA Retaliation 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish FEHA retaliation because Plaintiff never
requested an accommodation of a disability and there is no connection between
her internal complaint to the decision to terminate her. 
 
To establish
a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, Aylward must show that (1) she
engaged in a protected activity; (2) her employer later took an adverse
employment action; and (3) a causal link exists between the protected activity
and the adverse employment action. (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) 
 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff has submitted evidence which supports a reasonable inference
of pretext. Plaintiff has submitted evidence which could support a reasonable
inference that she complained to Aoun’s superiors about the failure to take her
physical and mental disabilities seriously, and that as a result, Aoun
manufactured a performance timeline that could not be met in order to terminate
her.
 
Accordingly,
there is a triable issue of material fact as to this claim. 
 
III.           
Retaliation under Labor
Code Section 232.5 or 1102.5 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for either section because there is
no evidence Plaintiff was prohibited from sharing information about her working
conditions, or that she was terminating for disclosing information about a
state or federal violation.
 
The Court disagrees.

 
California
Labor Code section 232.5 provides that an employer may not discharge or
otherwise discriminate against an employee who discloses information about the
employer’s “working conditions.” When an employee’s disclosure of information
to her employer serves only the employee’s private interest, the employee has
not stated a claim for wrongful termination or retaliation under Labor Code
232.5 (Smith v. Constellation Brands, Inc. (9th Cir. 2018) 725 F.
App’x 504, 506.) 
 
Here, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s evidence only discloses a private interest disclosure
that pertained to her inability keep pace with the working conditions. However,
Plaintiff’s email concerned the working conditions being placed on the
management team as a whole, “[t]he ONLY way we've been able to get the sales
we've had for the last couple months is because the management team has been
working long hours in hourly functions.” (SS 33.) As such, there is at least a
triable issue as to whether or not Plaintiff was making a wholly private
interest disclosure, or if her complaints can be said to be a public interest
disclosure to higher-ups about working conditions. 
 
Under
California Labor Code section 1102.5, an employer may not retaliate against
employees for disclosing information when the employee has reasonable cause to
believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal
statute.    
 
Here, as set
forth above, the Court concludes a triable issue exists as to whether or not
Plaintiff was the victim of disability discrimination. As such, Plaintiff’s
alleged disclosure of “violations and noncompliant conduct by Aoun” is
sufficient to establish a section 1102.5 claim. 
 
IV.           
Failure to
Accommodate/Failure to Engage in Interactive Process
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for failure to accommodate or engage
in the interactive process because Plaintiff did not request an accommodation
nor did Plaintiff disclose a disability that would have triggered the
interactive process. 
 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that she did
disclose a physical and/or mental disability. “Although it is the employee’s
burden to initiate the [interactive] process, no magic words are necessary, and
the obligation arises once the employer becomes aware of the need to consider
an accommodation.” (Gelfo v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 34, 62, fn. 22.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s May 15, 2022 email stated that she was struggling at work
“emotionally and physically” and expressly stated “I need help. I cannot
continue to work at the pace that I have been for months. I am physically and
mentally hurting. I literally cannot walk sometimes and have been having some
type of anxiety attack…” (RSS 36.)
 
While this
may not raise to the level of a specific request for accommodation, an employee
may pursue a claim for failure to engage in the interactive process where “the
employee is unable to identify a specific, available reasonable accommodation
while in the workplace and the employer fails to engage in a good faith interactive
process to help identify one, but the employee is able to identify a specific,
available reasonable accommodation through the litigation process.” (Nadaf
Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 984.) At
the very least, Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that some
sort of interactive process should have been triggered by Plaintiff’s express
request for “help” and inability to “continue to work at the pace that I
have.”) 
 
Moreover,
Plaintiff’s email does identify relevant accommodations: time off, reduced
hours, a fourth manager, help from other stores, and help from Aoun. It is not
the employee’s burden or responsibility to “supply specific details” about a
potential accommodation, such as the length of time for a leave. (Soria v.
Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 598.) This
would “improperly put[] the initial burden of finding an accommodation on the
employee.” (Id.)
 
V.               
CFRA Violations
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for her CFRA-based claims because:
“(1) she failed to provide notice of an intent to take CFRA-qualifying leave in
the 2022 calendar year (UMF 11- 13, 38, 42-43) and (2) even if she had provided
Brinker with adequate notice, her “emotional and physical struggles” do not
qualify as a serious health condition because she has no evidence to suggest at
she required inpatient care or a course of continuing treatment by a healthcare
provider. In fact, the only evidence she has offered to date supporting a
course of treatment with a healthcare provider is her treatment with a
psychiatrist after her termination. (UMF 51.)” (Motion, 24:25-25:3.) 
 
However, as
to the first point, an “employee need not expressly assert rights under CFRA or
FMLA or even mention CFRA or FMLA to meet the notice requirement….” (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 2, §11091(a).) The request is not rendered ineffective where the
employee stated she would use “vacation.” (Id; see Moore v. Regents
of UC (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 251 [that plaintiff “suggested that she
would use available paid time off options, does not, in and of itself, render
[her] notice ineffective.”].)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that she notified Defendants
that she was suffering from physical and mental ailments and that she needed
time off. As such, there is a triable issue as to whether or not she had
CFRA-qualifying reasons for leave, which triggered Brinker’s obligation to
inquire about Plaintiff’s request and provide her with the relevant paperwork.
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that she notified Defendants that she needed time
off to go to Chicago to take care of her mother –a separate potential
CFRA-qualifying reason for leave. (SAF 60, 68, 72, 78, 79, 106.) Defendants
failed to notified that CFRA was available for that leave request, and
Plaintiff was required to use vacation hours. (SS 73.)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds a triable issue of material fact as to the
CFRA claims.  
 
VI.           
Harassment 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish her harassment claim because there is no
evidence whatsoever that she was subject to harassment. 
 
To establish
a harassment claim under the FEHA, a plaintiff must demonstrate: (1) she
belongs to a protected category; (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment;
(3) the harassment was based on a protected category; and (4) the harassment
complained of was sufficiently severe or pervasive so as to alter the
conditions of her employment and create an abusive working environment. (Guthrey
v. State of Calif. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1122-23.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff supports this claim with evidence that: “(1) after Aylward repeatedly
described her ailment to Brinker, they ignored her (SAF 8, 9, 11, 14, 18-20,
22-24, 27, 35, 37, 38, 41, 44, 50, 57, 67, 68, 76, 77); (2) Aoun stopped
visiting CBM while Aylward was there after she disclosed her disabilities to
him (SAF 31); (3) Brinker ignored her May 15 Email (SAF 46); (4) Brinker failed
to notify Aylward that she was entitled to CFRA leave (SAF 48, 73); (5) during
the May 28, 2022 meeting, Aoun told Aylward that Sanchez should ask her mother
to delay her surgery, and told Aylward to keep her mother in rehab for another
month (SAF 58, 60); (6) on June 13, 2022, Aoun gave Aylward a PDW, knowing that
she was disabled and that she is leaving that day to go and care for her
disabled mother (SAF 80); and (7) Aoun terminated Aylward a few days after she
told him she needed to take more days off to take care of her mother (SAF 106,
109).” (Opp., 16:24-17:5.) 
 
However,
discrimination, retaliation, and harassment are not coterminous, and if this
evidence were sufficient to show harassment then every claim for retaliation
and discrimination would also support a claim for harassment. Plaintiff’s
evidence that she was discriminated and retaliated against based on her
disability here does not support a reasonable inference that she was also
harassed.
 
In Roby v.
McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 707, some of the official employment
actions taken by the supervisor against the employee included shunning the
employee during staff meetings, belittling the employee’s job, and reprimanding
the employee in front of the employee’s coworkers. (Id. at 709.) Here, by
contrast, Plaintiff has submitted only evidence that Aoun stopped visiting the
store after she disclosed her disabilities. Plaintiff did not submit any
evidence that she was ever belittled or reprimanded in front of others.
Accordingly, the Court finds Roby distinguishable and finds insufficient
evidence of the type of overlapping discrimination-harassment evidence here. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, summary adjudication is granted as to the harassment cause of
action.  
 
VII.        
Failure to
Prevent/Wrongful Termination Causes of Action
 
Plaintiff
asserts a number of causes of action for failure to prevent, wrongful
discharge, and wrongful termination based on her discrimination, retaliation,
and harassment causes of action.  
 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff’s evidence supports a reasonable inference of discrimination
and retaliation. Accordingly, triable issues exist as to these claims as well. 
 
VIII.     
Failure to Inspect 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish this claim because all requested records
were timely produced. 
 
Section
1198.5(a) of the Labor Code states that “Every current and former employee, or
his or her representative, has the right to inspect and receive a copy of the
personnel records that the employer maintains ... within 30 days of an oral or
written request.” Section 226 of the Labor Code requires that an employer
provide an employee (current or former) access and an opportunity to copy all
payroll.
 
Plaintiff
requested her personnel file only on or about June 30, 2022, and Brinker timely
provided them to her on July 27, 2022. About one month later, Aylward’s counsel
submitted a request for her personnel file and payroll records. Brinker
produced Aylward’s documents on September 23, 2022, after securing an agreement
from Aylward’s counsel to extend the deadline for production. (UMF 50.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff provided a single sentence to address this cause of
action: “Brinker failed to produce Aylward’s annual evaluations since 2017.”
(Opp., 20: 25.) Plaintiff did not present any legal authority to show that this
amounts to a violation of Section 1198.5(a). (“This failure to cite pertinent
legal authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of
California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to
cite legal authority).
 
IX.           
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish that any officer, director, or managing
agent of Brinker engaged in oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
To recover
punitive damages, the employee must show, by clear and convincing evidence,
that an officer, director, or managing agent of the employer engaged in malice,
oppression, and/or fraud or authorized such conduct. (Civ. Code, § 3294(b); Kelly-Zurian
v. Wohl Shoe Co. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397, 419-421). Managing agents are
only “those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority
and judgment in their corporate decision making so that their decisions
ultimately determine corporate policy.” (Kelly-Zurian, supra, 22
Cal.App.4th at pp. 419-422.)
 
Defendants
submitted evidence that Aoun was not a managing agent of Brinker because he
never had the ability to create corporate Brinker policies—only the ability to
implement them. (SS 10.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff submitted evidence that Aoun did not (and could not)
unilaterally terminate Aylward, and that Bullotta approved the firing. (SAF
136.) To show that Bullotta is a managing agent, Plaintiff submitted evidence
that he is Vice President of Operations, he supervises 11 directors of
operations, and has profit and loss responsibility for all of the restaurants.
(SAF 137.)
 
In reply
Defendants argue that “Bullotta, Aoun, and Mejia all testified that there is no
requirement that a DO obtain approval from the VP before deciding to
terminate.” (Reply, 11: 0-11.) Defendants further argue that, even assuming
Bullotta did participate in the termination, Bullotta “did not set or determine
corporate policy.” (Id. at 11:12.) However, as to the first point, the
fact that there is no requirement to obtain VP approval, does not mean that VP
approval was not provided. Moreover, there is a triable issue of material fact
as to whether or not Bullotta, as VP of Operations, set or determined corporate
policy.
 
Conclusion
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is granted as to harassment (13th
COA), and failure to allow inspection of personnel file (16th COA).
Summary adjudication is denied as to all remaining claims. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 