 Case Number:  23SMUD01128    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant John Chickanis’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.Plaintiff Laguna del Rey, LLC may amend its complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)This action is reclassified to limited civil jurisdiction.Defendant John Chickanis to give notice. REASONING“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Defendant John Chickanis (“Defendant”) demurs to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the ground that it contains a defect claiming an impossibility of service. In paragraph 10, Plaintiff states that a copy of the 3-day notice was posted on the premises on April 5, 2023, and it was given to a person at the residence because no person of suitable age or discretion could be found there. Plaintiff also now states that information about service of the notice upon the defendants alleged in item 9f is stated in Attachment 10c, but Plaintiff has provided no such attachment, nor has he named any defendants in item 9f. As the Court previously stated, this uncertainty is not fatal to the FAC, but the Court specifically ordered Plaintiff to amend this statement for clarity, and Plaintiff failed to comply with the Court’s order. Plaintiff is again ordered to amend this statement in filing a Third Amended Complaint.Defendant also takes issue with Plaintiff’s statement in the caption that this action is a limited civil case. The Court assumes that Defendant's Opposition means to state that the case should have been deemed unlimited civil, but argues that the case should be designated limited.  While Plaintiff should have checked the box stating this action is reclassified in the SAC to unlimited civil, Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff should have filed a reclassification motion is not well taken. Accordingly, this action is deemed an unlimited civil case.Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for forfeiture is inconsistent with provisions of the lease because the lease does not provide for forfeiture of the lease based on leaking oil from a vehicle. In Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff clarifies that paragraph 4.2 of the lease makes it such that violation of any term of the lease constitutes a default, and paragraph 3.5 states that “[v]ehicles that leak any type of fluid must be repaired immediately.” (SAC, Ex. 4.) Defendant argues that parking privileges have been reinstated, but this is a matter best considered in the context of a motion allowing for the introduction of evidence.As to whether there is a nuisance alleged, the SAC does not make clear there is a nuisance claim, but Plaintiff continues to argue that one has been properly alleged. Insofar as Plaintiff attempts to allege a private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted.) Plaintiff appears to allege that the mere presence of unauthorized occupants or heating up a sandwich constitutes a nuisance, but these allegations do not sufficiently allege a claim for nuisance. (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 1161(4).)For these reasons, Defendant John Chickanis’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. Plaintiff Laguna del Rey, LLC may amend its complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) This action is reclassified to unlimited civil jurisdiction.