  Case Number:  21STCV06525    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  49 TDI, LLC v. Sam Vaziri Vance, Inc.PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO ADD ALTER EGO JUDGMENT DEBTORS MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff TDI, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff TDI, LLC, alleges that it entered into a sales and purchase agreement with Defendant Sam Vaziri Vance, Inc., for the purchase of nitrile rubber gloves, by which Defendant agreed to deliver the gloves to Plaintiff in the United States by air freight.  Plaintiff alleges it wired $825,000.00 for air freight by chartered plane—however, Defendant had not obtained the gloves and had failed to take the legal steps necessary to ship them. Defendant then made repeated misrepresentations regarding the status of the shipment. At the time of the FAC’s filing, Defendant had not delivered the gloves or returned the $825,000.00. Plaintiff now moves to add various judgment debtors to the judgment, whom Plaintiff contends are alter egos of the Judgment Debtor/Defendant Sam Vaziri Vance, Inc. No oppositions were filed. TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Add Judgment Debtors is DENIED without prejudice as to Futurebound Capital LLC.    The motion is TAKEN OFF CALENDAR as to the other remaining proposed judgment debtors.Plaintiff to give notice to all interested parties. DISCUSSION:Motion to Add Alter Ego Judgment DebtorsA. BackgroundThe alleged written contract here was for the purchase of nitrile rubber gloves, executed in writing as the “Sales and Purchase Agreement” (the “Agreement.”) (FAC ¶¶ 12-15.) Under the Agreement, Plaintiff agreed to purchase, and Defendant would provide, 330,000 boxes of nitrile rubber gloves for $7.75 per box—a Total purchase price of $2,557,500. (Id.)TDI thereafter wired $825,000.00 to Smeed to cover the entire Air Freight Cost related to chartering a 747 cargo plane to deliver the Gloves to TDI. (Id. ¶ 30.) Defendant, however, failed to transport or deliver any gloves, and allegedly misrepresented the status of the transaction.  (Id. ¶¶ 46, 47, 48.) To date, Defendant has not delivered any gloves, and has not refunded the $825,000 wire for air freight. (Id. ¶¶ 55, 57.) This action followed.On June 5, 2023, this court granted Defendant’s former counsel’s motion to be relieved. (See 06/05/2023, Minute Order.) The court further ordered “[i]f Defendant does not have a licensed attorney representing the corporation by 6/20/2023, its answer may be stricken.” (Id.) There was no appearance by or for Defendant at the June 20, 2023, Final Status Conference. (See 06/20/2023 Minute Order.) Accordingly, this court ordered Defendant Sam Vaziri Vance, Inc.’s Answer to the First Amended Complaint stricken, and entered Defendant’s default. (Id.) Finding “ample and sufficient evidence in the court file to support a default judgment,” this court also entered judgment for Plaintiff in the amount of $825,000, plus prejudgment interest. (Id.)On motion by Plaintiff, this court amended the Judgment to add Sheila Vance, Ross Vance, Monza Eyewear LLC, and Torus Eyewear LLC as Judgment Debtors. (See 10/17/2023 Final Ruling.)Plaintiff now moves to add four additional judgment creditors, all of whom Plaintiff contends are Alter Egos of Sam Vaziri Vance, Inc.: (1) BH Design Lab, LLC, (2) Futurebound Capital, LLC, (3) Warehouse Operations, LLC, and (4) David Wiggins.It is noted that there is pending automatic bankruptcy stay as to alter ego judgment debtor Ross Vance, which also includes the community property of his wife, Sheila Vance. (See 04/02/2024 Notice of Bankruptcy.) Plaintiff contends the proposed alter ego judgment debtors “are not assets of the bankruptcy estate.” (Mtn. 1: 24-25.) Plaintiff’s counsel Bryan M. Grundon attests in his declaration that the “schedules of the bankruptcy do not list any ownership interest by the Vances in these entities and [he] confirmed by asking under oath at Vance’s 341 exam if he or his wife had any interest in these entities.” (Grundon Decl., pp. 1-2.)B. Service on Proposed Judgment DebtorsAs a preliminary matter, it appears only one of the four proposed judgment debtors have been served with this motion. Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service as to Futurebound Capital LLC showing personal service on June 24, 2024. (See Proof of Service.) Plaintiff also filed a Declaration of Non Service as to Wholesale Operations LLC, indicating service was attempted but unsuccessful. (See Decl. of Non Service.) No Proofs of Service have been filed as to the other two proposed judgment debtors.The parties to be added are not named Defendants in this action. They have never been personally served, and there is no indication they have voluntarily appeared in this action. Thus, service should have been completed in the same manner as required for service of summons generally. (See CCP § 415.10 et seq. [service on individuals]; § 416.10 et seq. [service on entities].) This is true even if the proposed judgment debtors have notice of the pending motion. “The obligation to serve a party with process is not coextensive with merely providing the party with notice of the proceeding. Even undisputed actual notice of a proceeding does not substitute for proper service of the petition or complaint. . . . [¶] ‘Actual notice of the action alone . . . is not a substitute for proper service and is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction.’” (Abers v. Rohrs (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1206, 1207, quoting American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 392.)Therefore, because only Futurebound Capital has been properly served with this motion, the motion is before the court only as it pertains to that proposed judgment debtor. Be that as it may,  the court will discuss all of the un-served proposed judgment debtors so the Judgment Creditor may act accordingly in the future. C. AnalysisA court may amend a judgment to add additional judgment debtors. (CCP § 187; Wolf Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales, Inc. (2016) 4 Cal. App. 5th 698, 702.) This includes the authority to impose liability upon an alter ego. (Highland Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of Banning (2016) 244 Cal. App. 4th 267, 280.) “It is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant. [Citation]. The decision to grant an amendment lies in the sound discretion of the trial court. [Citation]. Great liberality is allowed in granting such amendments.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC v. Airborne Turbine Ltd. P'ship (2013) 222 Cal. App. 4th 811, 815.)In order to prevail in a motion to add judgment debtors, a creditor must show that “(1) the parties to be added as judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated as those of the entity alone.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC, supra, 222 Cal. App. 4th at 815-816.)1. Wholesale Operations, LLCWholesale Operations, LLC is a Nevada company formed on April 12, 2023. (See Grundon Decl., Exh. D.) Sheila Vance is listed as the LLC’s “Managing Member” at the address 13331 Mulholland Dr., Beverly Hills, CA, 90210. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts this is the Vance’s current home address (Grundon Decl. p. 2.)  An HSBC Bank statement shows a transfer of $1,300,000 from an account belonging to Sheila and Ross Vance to Wholesale Operations in May 2023. (Grundon Decl., Exh. E.) Plaintiff also contends that Wholesale Operations paid $70,000 to the Vance’s bankruptcy attorney in December 2023. When asked at his 341 hearing why Wholesale Operations paid his bankruptcy attorney, Ross Vance purportedly testified “that he did not know.”  (Grundon Decl. p. 2.)Here, while there may exist a unity of interest between Wholesale Operations and SVVI vis-a-vis the Vance’s, there is insufficient evidence that Wholesale Operations had control of the underlying litigation or was virtually represented in that proceeding. Therefore, Wholesale Operations cannot be named an alter ego judgment debtor, based upon this rather scant evidentiary showing.2. Futurebound Capital LLCFuturebound Capital LLC is a Nevada company formed on October 7, 2023. (See Grundon Decl., Exh. F.) Sheila Vance and Nima Nejat are listed as the LLC’s Managing Members at 13331 Mulholland Dr., Beverly Hills, CA, 90210. (Id.)Here, while Sheila Vance is a Managing Member of Futurebound Capital, there is insufficient evidence that Futurebound Capital had control of the underlying litigation and was virtually represented in that proceeding. Additionally, this lone fact, standing alone, is not evidence of a unity of interest and ownership such that “the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no longer exist.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC, supra, 222 Cal. App. 4th at 815-816.) Therefore, Futurebound Capital also cannot be named an alter ego judgment debtor based upon the current record.3. BH Design Lab LLCBH Design Lab LLC is a California company organized on April 18, 2022. (Grundon Decl., Exh. A.) Sheila Vance is listed as manager and agent for service of process. (Id.) The company’s principal address and agent address are listed as 13319 Mulholland Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90210. (Id.) Grundon attests that this address “was the Vance’s home address at the time.” (Grundon Decl., p. 2.) On August 29, 2022, BH Design Lab LLC filed a Fictitious Business Name Statement indicating it was doing business as “SAMA” or “SAMA Eyewear.” (Grundon Decl. Exh. B.) On January 26, 2024, BH Design Lab LLC filed an amended statement indicating “Brian Glasgow” was the new sole Manager or Member, replacing Sheila Vance. (Grundon Decl, Exh. C.) Counsel for Plaintiff states in his declaration that Ross Vance testified at his 341 hearing that “the fictitious business name was transferred to Brian Glasgow as partial payment for a debt owed to Glasgow.” (Grundon Decl. p. 2.) Here again, while there may have existed a unity of interest between BH Design Lab and SAMA or SVVI vis-a-vis the Vance’s, there is insufficient evidence that BH Design Lab had control of the underlying litigation or was virtually represented in that proceeding. Therefore, BH Design Lab also has not been demonstrated to be an alter ego judgment debtor, for purposes of this motion.4. David WigginsDavid Wiggins was SAMA Eyewear’s person most knowledgeable. Wiggins testified at his deposition that he had “invested” profits he was entitled to back into SAMA. (Grundon Decl., Exh. G, p. 358-362.) When Sheila Vance submitted a declaration in opposition to the previous motion attempting to add her as an alter ego judgment debtor, she stated that Wiggins was “the individual with the most knowledge of the facts relating to this case.” (Grundon Decl., Exh. H, Vance Decl. ¶ 4.) She continued, however, that Wiggins “did not participate in ‘directing’ the litigation.” (Id.) Here, there is insufficient evidence of the unity of interest between Wiggins and SAMA or SVVI to add him as an alter ego of the entity. There is likewise insufficient evidence that Wiggins had control of the underlying litigation or was virtually represented in that proceeding. Therefore, Wiggins is not an alter ego judgment debtor, based upon this current showing.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Add Judgment Debtors is DENIED without prejudice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:  July 18, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.