 Case Number:  21STCV22100    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOHNNIE
  MCGEE 
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES 
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV22100
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  June 6, 2024




 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further documents is GRANTED. However, due to inadequate meet
and confer, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
On
12/15/2022, Plaintiff Johnnie McGee (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendant
County of Los Angeles (County), alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) retaliation;
and (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  
 
            On
4/29/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production (Set Nine). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues good cause exists to compel further responses to RFP No. 76. 
 
            RFP
No. 76 requests: “All Performance Evaluations prepared by Jackie Switzler,
James Bailey or Albert Yanagisawa for FPEAs employed by the LACOFD for years
2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023. (To the extent that the County of Los Angeles
claims that the identity of such employees are privileged, the names of each
employee may be redacted.)”
 
            Plaintiff
argues that this request is relevant and narrowly tailored: “This request is
not vague or overbroad, rather this request limits its request to performance
evaluations of only Defendant's employees with the designation FPEA. More
specifically, the request is further limited to FPEA personnel that had a
performance evaluation prepared by Jackie Switzer, James Bailey or Albert
Yanagisawa ONLY, for 2 years prior to when Plaintiff filed his lawsuit and 2
years after the filing of this suit. Defendant cannot show that this is unduly
burdensome or oppressive, as this request is very limited and should only yield
a few results, Defendant just does not want to comply.” (SS, p. 2:21-28.)
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and
confer, and that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that relevance
outweighs confidentiality. In support of the latter contention, Defendant
argues:
 
Plaintiff has
not met that burden. It is undisputed that Plaintiff and others did not receive
their performance evaluations during COVID. It is also undisputed that Chief
Yanagisawa discovered in 2022 that numerous other performance evaluations need
to be completed, including Plaintiffs, which he completed and presented.
Plaintiff has not presented any compelling argument as to why the County should
produce confidential performance evaluations for five years – 2019, 2020, 2021,
2022, 2023 – of all FPEA Is and IIs - when the only two years that Plaintiff
claims that Switzler did not prepare performance evaluations for him [as
opposed to others]. And, for those two years – 2020 and 2021 - Plaintiff knows
that Switzler did not prepare the performance evaluations because she was on a
medical leave of absence, her last day in Calabasas was December 21, 2021, and
she retired in March 2022. Therefore, there is no purpose to compelling any
other employee’s performance evaluations.
 
            (Opp.,
11-21.) 
 
            However,
performance evaluations are clearly relevant evidence to establishing
Plaintiffs’ claims for discrimination and retaliation, as disparate treatment
is critical evidence in such claims. Moreover, while Defendants argue that
there is a reasonable, nondiscriminatory reason for why evaluations were not
prepared for Plaintiff but were prepared for others for two of the years
implicated here, that does not mean that Plaintiff is not entitled to discover
that evidence. To the extent that documents being requested do not exist,
Defendants must provide a code-compliant response indicating this. 
 
            In
sum, the Court finds the request for performance evaluations relevant, and the
time scope—two years before Plaintiff’s lawsuit and two years after—to be
narrowly tailored. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further documents is granted.
However, because Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were inadequate (See Opp.,
1: 11-16), the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. The Court urges
the parties to attempt informal resolution of the pending motion to compel
further responses to special interrogatories. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 