  Case Number:  22VECV01587    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  W SHAHIN
CHERMAHINI V. KAREN VIGNA KAUFMAN
 
PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANT'S SUBPOENAS FOR PLAINTIFF'S
PRIVATE ACADEMIC RECORDS
 
Date of Hearing:        April 24, 2024                                                 Trial
Date:       June
17, 2024 
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV01587
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Shahin Chermahini
Responding Party:     Defendant
Karen Vigna Kaufman 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff Shahin
Chermahini alleges Defendant Karen Vigna negligently operated her vehicle,
causing an auto accident between Plaintiff and Defendant. The accident occurred
on September 10, 2021. On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendant asserting causes of action for negligence. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff's Motion to Quash Defendant's Subpoenas for
Plaintiff's Private Academic Records is MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Shahin Chermahini moves this court for an order
quashing Defendant Karen Vigna Kaufman’s subpoenas issued to Pierce College and
California State University of Northridge, seeking “any and all” records of
Plaintiff including “IQ tests”, “grades”, “disciplinary actions”, “illness”
records and “any and all other school records” relating to Plaintiff in
existence on the grounds that the subpoenas are overbroad in time and scope and
improperly seek private, sensitive records that are wholly irrelevant to the
present matter. Plaintiff additionally requests this court order Defendant and
her counsel pay Plaintiff sanctions in the amount no less than $1,660.00. 
 
A deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance
and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as the production of
business records.  (CCP § 2020.020.)  The court, upon motion or the
court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect the person
from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of
the right of privacy of the person.”  (CCP § 1987.1(a).)  
 
Plaintiff argues she has expressly disclaimed any brain
injury, loss of earnings, or loss of learning capacity and alleges injury to
one body part only: her spine/neck. Plaintiff states she simply seeks damages
for past and future medical expenses and garden variety pain and suffering
related to her back/spine injury only. Plaintiff acknowledges at the early
stage of litigation she alleged traumatic brain injury/post-concussive syndrome.
However, Plaintiff has since narrowed her injury claims and served verified
amended responses to discovery, expressly withdrawing any brain injury and
narrowly tailoring her injury claims to her back/spine only. Plaintiff also
withdrew her claims for lost income or earning capacity. According to
Plaintiff, Defendant agreed to withdraw the subpoenas upon stipulation she
would not present any evidence of her academic performance at trial. However,
Defendant never withdrew the subpoenas. 
 
In opposition, Defendant also states they agreed to withdraw
the subpoenas and asked Plaintiff to withdraw the motion. However, the motion
was never withdrawn. Defendant also argues Plaintiff unequivocally testified at
her deposition that as a result of the subject accident, her grade point
average has decreased and that she has increased difficulty at school.
Defendant merely seeks materials to substantiate Plaintiff’s claim that this
accident affected her school performance. Moreover, the request is narrowly
tailored, seeking records related to attendance, grades, discipline, awards,
evaluations, accommodations, testing, and injuries to the specific body parts
claimed to have been injured in the subject accident. Defendant contends
Plaintiff waived her privacy objection by placing her education performance at
issue. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff provides an email from Defense counsel
asking to withdraw the subpoenas. As such, the motion to quash is MOOT. Moreover,
it appears from the papers that both parties agree, and so does the court, that
the subpoenas seek irrelevant information now that Plaintiff has narrowed her
injury claims solely to her spine/neck. 
 
Both parties also seek sanctions. Plaintiff seeks $1,660.00
against Defendant and their counsel for having to bring this motion and
Defendant seeks $765.00 for having to oppose the motion claiming Plaintiff had
multiple opportunities to withdraw the motion. 
 
Both requests for sanctions is DENIED. 
 