 Case Number:  23CHCV02873    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-12-24
Case #23CHCV02873 , Protective Insurance Company vs. Angel On
My Shoulder, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANT’S NAME IN JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Protective Insurance Company
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend the judgment to add another name for Defendant.
 
RULING: The
Court requires clarification on Exhibits A and B of the supplemental
declaration.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Judgment was
entered against Defendant Angel On My Shoulder, Inc. (Defendant) on December 5,
2023. Plaintiff Protective Insurance Company (Plaintiff) filed this motion to
amend Defendant’s name in the judgment after Plaintiff’s counsel discovered,
through a search of Defendant’s business records, that Defendant also goes by
Angeles On My Shoulder, Inc. The evidence that Plaintiff’s counsel has
submitted in support of this motion is his own declaration that he discovered
this information and that he is informed that Defendant uses both names
interchangeably. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
Plaintiff seeks
to amend Defendant’s name on the judgment so that it reads “ANGEL ON MY
SHOULDER, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION aka ANGELES ON MY SHOULDER, INC., A
CALIFORNIA CORPORATION.”
 
The Court
previously continued the hearing on this motion to allow Plaintiff to file
evidence that the two entities are the same. Plaintiff filed a supplemental
declaration on May 28, 2024, with exhibits that purport to show that the two
entities are the same.
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
Courts have
held that CCP § 187 gives trial courts jurisdiction to add additional judgment
debtors. (See McClellan v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Ass’n, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.) Judgments can be “‘amended to add additional
judgment debtors on the grounds that a person or entity is the alter ego of the
original judgment debtor. [Citations.] This is an equitable procedure based on
the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but
is merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant. [Citations.] “Such
a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by which to bind new
individual defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their capacity as
alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of the previous
litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.”’” (Id.)
Successor corporations may also be added to a judgment in a similar manner. (Id.
at 753.)
 
Plaintiff
contends in its motion that what it is not attempting to go so far as to add an
additional judgment debtor or an alter ego entity or a successor corporation.
Instead, Plaintiff is simply trying to add an additional name for the judgment
debtor. 
 
The Court was
concerned that Plaintiff had not provided sufficient evidence that Angeles On
My Shoulder is simply an “aka” of Angel On My Shoulder. The declaration of
Plaintiff’s attorney filed with Plaintiff’s original motion states that he
discovered this through Defendant’s business records, but he did not specify
which business records or whether he found the information on the Secretary of
State’s website or someplace else. At the hearing on the original motion, the
Court requested more information on how Plaintiff’s attorney came by this
information and continued the hearing on the motion to the present date.
 
The
supplemental declaration filed by Plaintiff’s attorney after the original
hearing includes five exhibits. The first two, Exhibits A and B, are screen
captures of business searches from the California Secretary of State’s website.
It is unclear from the screen captures themselves what entities they are for,
though the attorney’s declaration states that Exhibit A shows that Angel On My
Shoulder is located in Dana Point, and Exhibit B shows that Angeles On My
Shoulder is located in Northridge. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff did business
with an entity at the Northridge address from Exhibit B, as demonstrated by the
address on the information page that is attached as Exhibit C to the
declaration. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
Exhibit D to
the declaration shows that the Northridge entity was served with the complaint in
this matter, though the declaration also claims the proof of service for the entry
of default and other filings were also attached, but only the proof of service
for the complaint is attached. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.) Exhibit E is a UCC Search
from the California Secretary of State’s website that shows that Angel On My
Shoulder is listed as the debtor name with the Northridge address from Exhibits
B and C. (Booska Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
The problem
with the evidence submitted by Plaintiff’s attorney is that it is impossible to
tell which entity Exhibit A applies to and which entity Exhibit B applies to. All
of the other evidence submitted by Plaintiff indicates that Angel On My
Shoulder is located in Northridge and fits the entity in Exhibit B, but
Plaintiff’s attorney has claimed that Exhibit A shows that Angel On My Shoulder
is located in Dana Point and that Exhibit B shows that Angeles On My Shoulder
is located at the Northridge address.
 
The Court will
request clarification regarding Exhibits A and B at the hearing on this motion,
as well as whether plaintiff has served defendant with the various motions
filed in connection with this issue.
 
Moving party to
give notice.