 Case Number:  23STCV08136    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 12, 2023, Plaintiff Varina Goretti Carvajal (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-100 for negligence and dangerous condition of public property under
Government Code section 835. 
On
June 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendant and
Does 1-100 for negligence, dangerous condition of public property, intentional
spoliation of evidence, and negligent spoliation of evidence. 
 On August 4,
2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s claims for
negligence and dangerous condition of public property based on the exclusive
remedy of workers’ compensation. The Court also sustained the demurrer to
Plaintiff’s claims for intentional and negligent spoliation because Plaintiff
had not identified a statutory basis for government tort liability. The Court
granted Plaintiff thirty days leave to amend. 
On
September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Defendant
and Does 1-100 for negligence, dangerous condition of public property under
Government Code section 835, intentional spoliation of evidence, and negligent
spoliation of evidence. 
On
December 18, 2023, the Court (1) overruled Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
claims for negligence and dangerous condition of public property based on the workers' compensation exclusive remedy and (2)
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff's
claims for intentional and negligent spoliation of evidence without leave to
amend.         
On
December 22, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the second amended complaint. 
On
February 29, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to stay proceedings, to be heard on
March 26, 2024. On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 19,
2024, Defendant filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing to June 10, 2024. 
On
March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a third amended
complaint, to be heard on May 13, 2024. 
On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.  The Court continued the hearing to June 10,
2024. 
Trial
is currently set for October 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to stay the case pending the outcome of Plaintiff’s workers’
compensation case. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion to stay. 
Plaintiff also asks the Court for leave to file a third amended
complaint. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the request for leave to file a third amended complaint. 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          The Court grants in part Defendant’s request for judicial
notice.  The Court grants judicial notice
of (1) the pleadings filed in this case, (2) the fact that South Gate High
School is within the Los Angeles Unified School District, and (3) the existence
of Plaintiff’s pending workers’ compensation claim.  The Court denies Defendant’s request for
judicial notice of “evidence submitted to this court.”         
LEGAL STANDARD 
“Trial
courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests
of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” 
(Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484,
1489.)
DISCUSSION

Defendant
contends that the Court should stay this case until Plaintiff’s workers’
compensation case is concluded because Plaintiff filed the worker’s
compensation claim on or about September 20, 2022, before she filed the
complaint in this case.  As a result,
Defendant argues, the Court must stay this action pending resolution of the workers’
compensation matter.   
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that Defendant waived its right to seek a stay of
the superior court proceedings. 
“ ‘Pursuant
to constitutional mandate, the Legislature has vested the Workers’ Compensation
Appeals Board (WCAB) with exclusive jurisdiction over claims for workers’
compensation benefits.  [Citations.]’ ” (Hollingsworth
v. Superior Court (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 927, 929 (Hollingsworth),
quoting La Jolla Beach & Tennis Club, Inc. v. Industrial Indemnity Co.
(1994) 9 Cal.4th 27, 35 (La Jolla).) “Thus, in an action involving a
worker injured during his or her employment, ‘the superior court and the WCAB .
. . “do not have concurrent jurisdiction over the whole of the controversy, and
one of them will be without jurisdiction to grant any relief whatsoever,
depending upon whether or not the injuries were . . . covered by the workmen's
compensation laws.” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting La Jolla, supra, 9
Cal.4th at p. 35.) “ ‘The only point of concurrent jurisdiction of the two
tribunals is jurisdiction to determine jurisdiction; jurisdiction once
determined is exclusive, not concurrent.’ ” (Ibid., quoting La Jolla,
supra, 9 Cal.4th at p. 35.) 
“The
Supreme Court has made clear that when a civil action and a workers’
compensation proceeding are concurrently pending, ‘the tribunal first assuming
jurisdiction’ should determine exclusive jurisdiction.” (Hollingsworth, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at pp. 929-930, quoting Scott v. Industrial Acc. Commission
(1956) 46 Cal.2d 76, 81.)  In Hollingsworth,
“the superior court exercised jurisdiction first, so the court had jurisdiction
to decide which tribunal has exclusive jurisdiction. The court erred by staying
the civil case to allow the WCAB to decide that issue, and the WCAB erred by
proceeding without deference to the superior court.”  (Id. at p. 930.) 
Hollingsworth distinguished Sea World Corp. v. Superior Court
(1973) 34 Cal.App.3d 494 (Sea World), in which the plaintiff “ ‘suffered
physical injury of undetermined character and extent as the result of having
bestridden a killer-whale owned by Sea World, an action she took at the request
of Sea World, made through her supervisor at a time when she was employed as a
secretary by Sea World.’ ” (Hollingsworth, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 935, quoting Sea World, supra, 34
Cal.App.3d at p. 496.)  “The plaintiff
alleged in a civil action that she was not acting in the scope of her
employment at the time.  [Citation.]  A
WCAB proceeding was also initiated the same day, and Sea World contended that
the ‘WCAB has a priority of right to determine the threshold question of
subject matter jurisdiction because it first obtained jurisdiction over the
parties as a result of the service effected four days before the superior court
obtained jurisdiction over all the parties.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Sea
World, supra, 34 Cal.App.3d at p. 497.) 
“It
appears that the parties in Sea World did not immediately address the
threshold issue of exclusive jurisdiction. Instead, Sea World moved for summary
judgment in the superior court, thus ‘the jurisdiction of the superior court
was invoked specifically by Sea World to make the threshold determination based
upon what was originally claimed to be a showing of undisputed facts.’ ” (Hollingsworth, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p.
935, quoting Sea World, supra, 34 Cal.App.3d at p. 502.)  “Sea World’s later attempt to question the
superior court’s jurisdiction contradicted its earlier motion for summary
judgment: ‘Sea World's motion was not to stay proceedings in the superior court
because of the claimed prior right of WCAB, but was for summary judgment,
calling for a determination of the issue which Sea World now says the superior
court might not determine because WCAB had the prior right to do so.’ ” (Ibid.,
citing Sea World, supra, 34 Cal.App.3d at p. 503.) “The Court of
Appeal [in Sea World] held that as a result, ‘Sea World has waived, or
is estopped to urge, objection to the jurisdiction which it has invited the
superior court to exercise, which the superior court has exercised, which
exercise has been followed by a suspension of proceedings before WCAB amounting
to a waiver by that tribunal of its priority of right.” (Ibid., quoting Sea
World, supra, 34 Cal.App.3d at p. 503.) 
The
Court of Appeal in Hollingsworth acknowledged that “ ‘[p]recedental
jurisdiction—concurrent jurisdiction to determine exclusive jurisdiction—may be
the subject of waiver by the court having it.’” 
(Hollingsworth, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 935, quoting Sea
World, supra, 34 Cal.App.3d at p. 501.)  In Hollingsworth, however, the
defendants did not waive their right to object to the superior court’s exercise of
jurisdiction.  (Id. at p. 936.)  Instead, “from the initiation of the action,
plaintiffs and defendants consistently asserted their respective positions
regarding jurisdiction, unlike the employer in Sea World.”  (Ibid.)  Specifically, the defendants had demurred to
the plaintiffs’ complaint, arguing the action was barred by workers’
compensation exclusivity.  (Id. at
p. 931.) 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant waived its right to seek a stay of the
superior court proceedings because it twice demurred to the complaint on the
ground of workers’ compensation exclusivity. 
The Court sustained the first demurrer but overruled the second
demurrer to the extent it was based on workers' compensation exclusivity.  Plaintiffs contend that by asking the Court to determine whether the workers’ compensation exclusive
remedy barred the civil lawsuit, and receiving an adverse ruling, Defendant waived its right to have the WCAB
determine the issue of exclusive jurisdiction. 
Plaintiff’s
argument is inconsistent with the rationale of Hollingsworth.  Where, as here, a defendant has consistently
maintained that workers’ compensation provides the plaintiff’s exclusive
remedy, the defendant’s filing of a demurrer in the superior court does not waive
its right to have the WCAB, as the forum in which the plaintiff first sought
relief, determine whether the superior court or WCAB has exclusive jurisdiction. 
The
Court grants the motion to stay the proceedings in the superior court pending the WCAB's determination of whether it or the superior court has exclusive jurisdiction.  The Court denies the motion to file a third
amended complaint as moot. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion to stay proceedings in the superior court.  The superior court proceedings are stayed pending the WCAB's determination of whether the WCAB or the superior court has exclusive jurisdiction. 
          The Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff Varina Goretti Carvajal’s motion for leave to file a
third amended complaint. 
          Moving parties are to give notice of these rulings. 
          Moving parties are to file proof of service of these
rulings.