 Case Number:  22STCV15119    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 6, 2022, Plaintiff Gideon Adame (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association and Does 1-10 for
negligence and premises liability. 
On
June 16, 2022, Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. erroneously sued and served as JPMorgan Chase
Bank, National Association (“Defendant”)
filed an answer.  On June 23, 2022,
Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Mohammed Adam
(“Adam”) and Roes 1-50 for contribution and indemnity. 
On
July 5, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on June
10, 2024.  On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  On June 4, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply. 
The
trial is currently scheduled for July 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS:  Overruled  
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The alleges
the following: 
On
June 18, 2021, Plaintiff visited the Defendant’s banking premises to deposit
and/or withdraw funds from Plaintiff’s account. While Plaintiff was waiting to
make his transactions, another customer on the premises, Adam, threw an object
at Plaintiff, injuring him. 
Prior
to the incident, Adam showed a propensity to attack both employees and other
customers but Defendants did nothing to prevent Plaintiff’s injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
June 18, 2021, Plaintiff visited the Chase Bank branch office in Northridge to
conduct a transaction.  As Plaintiff was
walking into the branch, Adam walked out, shouting and yelling.  Bank staff had declined Adams’s request to
cash a third-party check because he was not a Chase Bank customer and could not
provide two forms of identification. 
Adam
then reentered the branch, still yelling. 
Adam walked toward Plaintiff and punched him in the face.  Bank staff restrained Adam until the police
arrived. 
Plaintiff
had not seen people fighting in the branch before June 18, 2021. 
At
no time during the decade before June 18, 2021 had there been any reports of a
violent physical attack by one person against another person anywhere inside
the Chase Bank branch. At no time during
the decade before June 18, 2021 had there ever been a fight inside the Chase
Bank branch. 
C.   Defendant’s summary judgment motion 
1.    Landowner’s duty to prevent third-party criminal
conduct 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc.
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663 (Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific
Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) “The
underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a), is
that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury occasioned to another by his
or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property
or person . . . .’” (Ibid.) This rule “‘establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko).) 
“ ‘
“ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise
potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act
....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting
Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has
explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must
be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called
‘the Rowland factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor
such an exception.” (Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “These are “ ‘ “the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.” [(Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108, 113)]’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663,
quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “One
well-established limit is that there is no duty to act to protect others from
the conduct of third parties.” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th
at p. 663, citing Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224,
235 (Delgado).) “In the case of a landlord, however, the general duty of
maintenance that is owed to tenants and patrons ‘has been held to include the
duty to take reasonable steps to secure common areas against foreseeable
criminal acts of third parties that are likely to occur in the absence of such
precautionary measures.’” (Id. at p. 664, quoting Ann M., supra,
6 Cal.4th at p. 674.) “This exception to the ‘general no-duty-to-protect rule’
comes under the “ ‘ “special relationship” doctrine’” (ibid., quoting Delgado,
supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235), which courts have found “‘in cases
involving the relationship between business proprietors such as shopping
centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants, patrons, or invitees.’” (Ibid.,
quoting Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235.) 
“As
explained more fully in Ann M., ‘the question of the scope of a
landlord's duty to provide protection from foreseeable third party crime ... is
determined in part by balancing the foreseeability of the harm against the
burden of the duty to be imposed.’” (Williams, supra, 37
Cal.App.5th at p. 664, quoting Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p.
678.) Where “ ‘ “ ‘the burden of preventing future harm is great, a high degree
of foreseeability may be required’ ” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Ann M., supra,
6 Cal.4th at p. 678), but “ ‘ “ ‘where there are strong policy reasons for
preventing the harm, or the harm can be prevented by simple means, a lesser
degree of foreseeability may be required.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Ann
M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 678-679.) “ ‘[D]uty in such
circumstances is determined by a balancing of “foreseeability” of the criminal
acts against the “burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy” of the proposed
security measures.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Ann M., supra, 6
Cal.4th at p. 679.) 
“
‘[A] duty to take affirmative action to control the wrongful acts of a third
party will be imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably anticipated.’ ”
(Sakai v. Massco Investments, LLC (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1187-1188,
quoting Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 676.) “The prescribed duty
analysis ‘requires the court in each case . . . to identify the specific action
or actions the plaintiff claims the defendant had a duty to undertake. “Only
after the scope of the duty under consideration is defined may a court
meaningfully undertake the balancing analysis of the risks and burdens present
in a given case to determine whether the specific obligations should or should
not be imposed on the landlord.” ’ ” (Hanouchian v. Steele (2020) 51
Cal.App.5th 99, 108 (Hanouchian), quoting Castaneda v. Olsher
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1214 (Castaneda).) 
“ ‘
“First, the court must determine the specific measures the plaintiff asserts
the defendant should have taken to prevent the harm. This frames the issue for
the court's determination by defining the scope of the duty under
consideration. Second, the court must analyze how financially and socially
burdensome these proposed measures would be to a landlord, which measures could
range from minimally burdensome to significantly burdensome under the facts of
the case. Third, the court must identify the nature of the third party conduct
that the plaintiff claims could have been prevented had the landlord taken the
proposed measures, and assess how foreseeable (on a continuum from a mere
possibility to a reasonable probability) it was that this conduct would occur.
Once the burden and foreseeability have been independently assessed, they can
be compared in determining the scope of the duty the court imposes on a given
defendant. The more certain the likelihood of harm, the higher the burden a
court will impose on a landlord to prevent it; the less foreseeable the harm,
the lower the burden a court will place on a landlord.” ’ ” (Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at p. 108, quoting Castaneda, supra,
41 Cal.4th at p. 1214.) “[O]ther Rowland factors may come into play in a
given case, but the balance of burdens and foreseeability is generally primary
to the analysis.” (Ibid., quoting Castaneda, supra, 41
Cal.4th at p. 1214.) 
“To
establish heightened foreseeability for third party criminal conduct, our
authorities have consistently required actual knowledge—not constructive,
inferential, or knowledge by association—to impose a burdensome legal duty.” (Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th 99, 111.) 
2.    Defendant has carried its initial burden on summary
judgment 
Defendant
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because Adam’s conduct was
unforeseeable.  According to Defendant, in
the ten years before June 18, 2021, it had never received a report of a violent
physical attack inside the Chase Bank branch; therefore, Defendant had no duty
to protect Plaintiff against Adam’s criminal conduct. Defendant has presented
evidence to support this argument. 
Defendant
has carried its initial burden on summary judgment, shifting the burden to
Plaintiff. 
3.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendant’s employment of a security guard imposed a duty on
Defendant to protect its customers.  But “a
defendant’s undertaking [to hire a security guard] will support the finding of
a duty to another only if (a) the defendant’s action increased the risk of harm
to another, or (b) the other person reasonably relied upon the undertaking to
his or her detriment. (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th
224, 25.) Plaintiff has presented no evidence showing that Defendant increased
the risk of harm to Plaintiff by hiring a security guard or that Plaintiff reasonably
relied on the security guard’s presence to his detriment. 
Plaintiff
also argues that Adam’s disruptive behavior before he punched Plaintiff should
have put Defendant on notice of the risk of harm to Plaintiff.  However, absent prior similar violent
incidents, Adam’s yelling and shouting did not impose a duty on Defendant. 
The
Court concludes that Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact regarding
whether Defendant could have foreseen Adam’s conduct.  Therefore, as a matter of law, Defendant had
no duty to protect Plaintiff from Adam. 
The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. erroneously sued and served as
JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.