 Case Number:  21STCV35122    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Velasco v. Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe, Inc.21STCV35122Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside DismissalTentativeThe motion is denied.BackgroundOn September 22, 2021, Plaintiff Marta Velasco (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Nuestra Senora De Guadalupe, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 30 for premises liability and general negligence arising out of a fall on September 26, 2019.Several requests for entry of default were rejected in 2023.On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to correct the name of Defendant to “Our Lady of Guadalupe Church.” On February 13, 2024, there was no appearance at the Trial Setting Conference.  The Court dismissed the entire action without prejudice.On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside the dismissal.  The hearing was set for July 24.  There was no appearance by Plaintiff.  As the hearing was shortly after a cyber attack on the Los Angeles County Superior Court that disrupted some court functions, the Court continued the hearing to August 20, 2024.  The Clerk gave notice.On August 20, 2024, there was again no appearance by Plaintiff.  The Court placed the motion off calendar.On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second motion to set aside the dismissal.  The hearing was set for September 20.On September 20, 2024, there was again no appearance by Plaintiff.  The Court placed the motion off calendar.On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this third motion to set aside the dismissal.  The hearing is set for October 17.  On September 26, Plaintiff submitted a supplemental declaration in support of the motion.    No opposition has been filed.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal.As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal, default, or default judgment:“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Ibid.)A request for discretionary relief under section 473, subdivision (b), must be made (subject to certain exceptions) “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made within six months.  (Ibid.)DiscussionPlaintiff moves to set aside the dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  The dismissal order was entered on February 13, 2024.  This motion was filed on September 25, 2024.Plaintiff has submitted two supporting declarations from counsel.  The first, from Dean Hakkak, states that the failure to appear at the OSC hearing was the result of counsel’s “inadvertent mistake.”  (Hakkak Decl., ¶ 6.)  This declaration says nothing about the failures to appear on August 20 and September 20.  The second, from Neema Shojal, states that the failure to appear on September 20 was the result of a family medical emergency.  (Shojal Decl., ¶ 3.)  This declaration says nothing about the failure to appear on August 20.This third motion to set aside the dismissal was filed more than six months after the dismissal order was entered.  So was the second motion.  Accordingly, the Court must deny the motion for statutory relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  The Court has no power or discretion to extend the statutory deadline. ConclusionThe Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiff Marta Velasco to set aside the dismissal under the statutory authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).Moving party is ordered to give any required notice.