 Case Number:  22STCV13398    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 11/6/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV13398 MICHAEL
ODJAGHIAN vs ESMIRALDA GOMEZ, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants
Esmeralda Gomez and Maria Gomez
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
On July 1, 2024,
Defendants Esmeralda Gomez and Maria Gomez served Plaintiff with Defendants’
Supplemental Interrogatories, Set One, Supplemental Requests for Production,
Set One, and Requests for Admission, Set One. Pursuant to an agreed-upon
extension, Plaintiff’s deadline to respond was extended to August 9, 2024.
Plaintiff failed to serve the discovery responses by this extended deadline.
Defendants subsequently attempted multiple times to communicate with
Plaintiff’s prior and current counsel regarding the overdue responses, but
Plaintiff has yet to provide any responses. Defendants now move to compel
responses to the discovery requests at issue.
Plaintiff did not file
an opposition or any document indicating that the responses were served before
the hearing. Accordingly, the motions to compel are granted. Plaintiff is
hereby ordered to serve complete, verified responses to Defendants’ Supplemental
Interrogatories, Set One, and Supplemental Requests for Production, Set One,
within 20 days of this order, without objections. Additionally, the contents of
Defendants' Requests for Admission, Set One, are deemed admitted.
Defendants request
sanctions of $882.50 per motion. Sanctions are mandatory and the court does not
find Plaintiff to have acted with substantial justification as defense counsel
made multiple attempts and offered numerous extensions for Plaintiff to provide
the discovery responses, which were still not provided. However, given the
straightforward nature of the issues and the lack of opposition, the court
reduces the sanction to $1,500 for all three motions, payable jointly and
severally by Plaintiff and his attorney to Defendants within 20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 