  Case Number:  21STCV13615    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



AVE
  I GROUP, LLC 
                           
         vs.
 
EQUITY
  PARTNERS, LTD, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV13615  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 3, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. Excluding CAMs, commissions, and late
fees, Plaintiff suffered damages in unpaid base rent of $306,384 for the breach
of the Richie Lease and $107,639 for the Lee Lease.
 
On 4/9/2021,
Plaintiff Ave I Group, LLC (Plaintiff) filed suit against Equity Partners, LTD
and Christopher Lee, alleging: (1) breach of lease and (2) breach of guaranty
of lease. 
 
Defendants
asserted a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Breach of Lease; and (2) Detrimental
Reliance. 
 
On 8/22/2023,
the Court granted Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of the issue of reformation, and Defendants/Cross-Complainants claim for
detrimental reliance.
 
Now,
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication,
of: (1) its cause of action for “Breach of Lease” against Richie P.C. and
Equity LTD; (2) its claims for “Breach of Guaranty” against the guarantors of
the foregoing Leases, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Darren Richie (Richie)
Christopher Lee (Lee); and (3) Richie P.C., Richie, Equity LTD, and Lee’s
(collectively “Defendants) causes of action for “Breach of Lease.
 
Factual Background 
 
This action
involves two companion leases (the Leases) in a brand new mixed-use property
located at 219 Avenue I, Redondo Beach, CA 90277, called “The Oshens”
(hereinafter, the Property). Both of the leases were negotiated at the same
time by the same agents and brokers. The dispute concerns whether or not there
it was mistake (whether unilateral or mutual) that the Lease for Unit 101
provided it was to commence the “earlier” of May 1, 2020, or the
date that Plaintiff obtained a “Conditional Use Permit” from the City of
Redondo Beach (the City) for the occupancy of the premises, instead of the “later”
of May 1, 2020 or Lessor obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy (CofO), as
provided in the Lease for Unit 103. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
CCP section 437c,
subdivision (q) provides:
 
In granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the
motion shall be preserved for appellate review.
 
            Based
on CCP section 437c, subdivision (q), the Court declines to rule on the
submitted objections. 
 
Discussion 
 
             Plaintiff argues that it is entitled to
summary judgment because the Court’s order of reformation is binding and this
leaves no disputed facts concerning Defendants’ breach of the Leases and
Guarantees. 
 
            On
8/22/2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication. As
part of that ruling, the Court determined that the Lease for Unit 101 needed to
be reformed to reflect the “Commencement Date” of the Lease as being May 1,
2020, or when Ave I obtained a CofO is now binding on the parties. As such, the
Court ordered that the Lease for Unit 101 be reformed at Paragraph 1.3 as
follows: 
 
1.3 Term:
five (5) years and zero (0) months (“Original Term”) commencing the later May
1, 2020 or Lessor obtaining Certificate of Occupancy for unit 103 at 219 Avenue
I, Redondo Beach (“Commencement Date”) and ending … 5-years thereafter
(“Expiration Date”)
 
The Court
also agreed that Defendants’ second cause of action for “Detrimental Reliance,”
which is asserted in their respective Cross-Complainants is meritless since Ave
I made no promises that are inconsistent with the leases at issue in this
action.
 
Based on this
ruling, Plaintiff argues that the terms of the lease and guaranty are clear and
plain and establish Defendants’ breach of the Leases and Guarantees. 
 
A.   
Breach of Contract Claim
 
The elements
of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim are as follows: (1) existence of the
lease agreements; (2) Ave I’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
Richie P.C. and Equity LTD’s breach of their respective leases with Ave I; and
(4) damages to Ave I as a result of the breach of the Leases. (Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402; see also
CACI 303.)
 
In order to
establish its breach of contract claims, Plaintiff submitted the following
evidence and argument:
 
-        
It is undisputed that Ave I, on the one
hand, and Richie P.C. and Equity LTD, on the other hand, entered into the
companion Leases at issue in this action. (See UMF No. 7.)
 
-        
The Leases provided that Ave I was
required to “use its best commercially reasonable efforts to deliver possession
of the Premises to Lessee by the Commencement Date.” (See Trial Exs. Nos. 37
& 38 to AOE, The Leases at ¶ 3.3.)
 
-        
 If in the event Ave I was unable to deliver
possession of the Premises within 60 days after the Commencement Date, Richie
P.C. and Equity LTD would have the right to cancel the Leases after providing
Ave I 10 days’ notice after the end of the 60-day period following the
Commencement Date. (See Trial Exs. Nos. 37 & 38 to AOE, Leases at ¶ 3.3.)
 
-        
The Commencement Date for both Leases
the later of May 1, 2020, or Lessor obtaining the CofO. (See UMF Nos. 11 &
30)
 
-        
On October 2, 2020, which was prior to
the “Commencement Date” of the Leases, Richie P.C. and Equity LTD provided
notice of their unilateral termination of the Leases and demand for the return
of their security deposit. (See UMF No. 10.)
 
-        
Ave I obtained the CofO on November 12,
2020. (See UMF No. 14.)
 
-        
Despite Richie P.C. and Equity LTD’s
attempt to unilaterally terminate the Leases, Ave I provided Richie P.C. and
Equity LTD “Notice of Commencement” of the Leases on November 17, 2020. (See
UMF No. 15.)
 
-        
In response to Ave I’s “Notice of
Commencement” of the Leases, Richie P.C. and Equity LTD informed Ave I of their
intention not to take possession of the Premises and of their intention not to
pay rent under the Leases. (See UMF No. 16.)
 
-        
Ave I was able to relet the Premises
after Richie P.C. and Equity LTD stipulated to grant Ave I possession of the
Premises in order to allow Ave I to mitigate its damages. (See Trial Ex. No. 62
to AOE, Fully Executed Stipulation for Possession of Units 101 and 103.)
 
-        
As part of the parties’ stipulation, it
was agreed that Ave I retained all of its rights and remedies under the Leases,
including but not limited to its rights and remedies under Civil Code section
1951.2. 
 
-        
Ave I suffered damages due to Richie
P.C.’s breach of the Lease for Unit 101 in the amount of $569.554.00. (See UMF
No. 24.)
 
-        
Ave I’s damages due to Equity LTD’s
breach of the Lease for Unit 103 totals $202,213.00. (See UMF No. 29.)
 
-        
Ave I’s damages is a simple matter of
arithmetic as set forth in detail in the spreadsheets attached to the AOE as
Exhibits “F” & “G,” and confirmed by Ave I’s managing member, Fred Mir.
(See Mir Decl. at ¶¶ 14-16.)
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendants Richie P.C. and Equity
LTD breached the lease at issue, and that Plaintiff suffered damages due to Defendants
breach of the Leases. More specifically, Plaintiff submitted evidence that
supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiff used its best commercially
reasonable efforts to deliver of the Premises to Lessee by the Commencement
Date, that the Commencement date was November 12, 2020 when it obtained the
CofO, and that it had 60 days from November 12, 2020 to deliver possession of
the premises. In the event, Plaintiff was unable to deliver possession of the
Premises within 60 days after the Commencement Date, Defendants would have the
right to cancel the Leases after providing Ave I 10 days’ notice after the end
of the 60-day period following the Commencement Date. However, Defendants
issued a notice of termination on October 2, 2020, prior to the Commencement
Date.  
 
Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Defendants to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants devote a considerable portion of their opposition to
relitigating the reformation issue already decided by this Court in its
previous ruling to Plaintiff’s MSA. Defendants did not seek reconsideration of
that ruling at the time, and the Court declines to reconsider that ruling here
based on contentions raised in an opposition to another motion. Accordingly,
the Court limits its analysis to Defendants’ remaining contentions. 
 
Defendants
also contend that triable issues of material fact exist because: (1)
Plaintiff’s evidence regarding the commencement date and possession of the
property is flawed; and (2) Plaintiff’s damages calculations are flawed.
 
As to the
first contention, Defendants argue that “Ave I’s evidence is improperly
authenticated and unexecuted and does not establish any permanent ability for
Defendants to occupy and possess the Units.” (Opp., 7: 15-16.) In particular,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot authenticate the unexecuted Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy (TCOO) submitted to show that the Leases commenced and
Defendants were in breach. However, first, the CofO is authenticated by Fred
Mir, the managing member of Ave I, who explains in his declaration that he was
directly involved in seeking to secure the CofO. Second, and importantly, even
setting this aside, Plaintiff’s evidence still establishes an anticipatory
breach prior to the TCOO being issued. As such, Plaintiff’s evidence still
supports a reasonable inference of breach, regardless of whether or not the
CofO is authenticated. (See Reply, 9: 3-10:11.)  
 
Defendants
also argue a lease “Commencement Date” based on issuance of the CofO is
illusory. However, specifying the “Commencement Date” of the Leases to be the
“later” of May 1, 2020, or issuance of the CofO does not grant Plaintiff an
unfettered or arbitrary right to terminate the Leases. To the contrary, by
specifying the “Commencement Date” in this manner, Ave I undertook an express,
if not implied, duty to exercise good faith in securing the CofO. (See
California Lettuce Growers v. Union Sugar Co. (1955) 45 Cal.2d 474, 484
[“[W]here a contract confers on one party a discretionary power affecting the
rights of the other, a duty is imposed to exercise that discretion in good
faith and in accordance with fair dealing.”].) Plaintiff submitted evidence
that shows that it worked to secure the CofO for the property, and the delay in
the issuance of the CofO was because the City of Redondo Beach effectively
closed down during the pandemic. (See Mir Decl. at ¶ 6.) Defendants did
not submit any evidence that could support a reasonable inference that
Plaintiff did not act in good faith to secure the CofO. Moreover, while Defendants
argue that the “Commencement Date” nullifies the “time is of the essence provision,”
such provisions generally imply that any delays or failures to meet deadlines
are considered material breaches. (See Gold Mining & Water Co. v.
Swinerton (1943) 23 Cal.2d 19, 27.) However, when a commencement date, such
as here, is dependent on obtaining a CofO, a time of the essence clause remains
fully effective since it would be triggered by the issuance of the CofO. 
 
            As
to the second contention, Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s damages are
uncertain in the following ways: (1) “Ave I’s evidence prevents Defendants from
adequately challenging their duty to mitigate damages and from accurately
calculating any purported damages.” (Opp., 8: 13-14.) For example, to show
their mitigation of damages, Plaintiff submitted copies of leases for Units 100
and 102, yet Defendants were to lease units 101 and 103; and (2) Plaintiff’s
additional CAM charges are improper, because Defendants’ total rent already
included those charges, and that the late charges clause is invalid. 
 
            However,
as to the first point, Defendants note that while the numbering of the units at
issue has changed, the actual physical units remain the same. In other words,
the lease for “Units 100 and 102” are, in fact, the same physical premises as
those in Defendants’ leases, the numbering of the units has just been changed.
(See Exh. G to AOE.)
            
            As
to the second point, the Court agrees. 
 
A liquidated
damages clause becomes an unenforceable penalty ‘if it bears no reasonable
relationship to the range of actual damages that the parties could have
anticipated would flow from a breach.” (Purcell v. Schweitzer (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 969, 974. “[A litigant seeking the benefits of a clause purporting
to fix liquidated damages must plead and prove that the clause is valid under
the facts which then existed.”]. (Id., at 975.)
 
Here, the
Court agrees that Plaintiff cannot establish that the “Late Charges” provisions
have any reasonable relationship to the damages it incurred, since it merely
calculated those damages at 10% of rent for both Richie Litigation and Equity
Partners. (Trial Ex. 37 at p. 37-12, § 13.4; Trial Ex. 38, at p. 38-12, §
13.4.)
 
Moreover, the
Court finds the CAM charges to be improper. This is because Plaintiff has not
adequately shown that the damages are not duplicative. In reply, Plaintiff
contends that the lease expressly provides for the recovery of CAMs. However,
Defendants argument isn’t that CAM damages aren’t recoverable, but that
Defendants’ total rent already reflects those charges.  Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not met its burden to show that those costs are recoverable. 
 
As such, the
Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to prevail on this claim, but the
damages calculations are to be adjusted to remove the duplicative CAM charges,
commissions, and the late charges. However, this damages amount is certain.
Excusing CAMs, commissions, and late fees, Ave I suffered damages in unpaid
base rent of $306,384 for the breach of the Richie Lease and $107,639 for the
Lee Lease. (See Supp. Mir Decl. at ¶ 5.)
 
B.   
Breach of Guaranty 
 
As for breach
of guaranty, the elements are as follows: (1) there is a guaranty of the Lease,
(2) the tenant or tenants defaulted on the Lease, and (3) the guarantor of the
Lease failed to perform under the guaranty. (Gray1 CPB, LLC v. Kolokotronis
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486; Central Building, LLC v. Cooper (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1058-1064; Civ. Code 2807 [“A surety who has assumed
liability for payment or performance is liable to the creditor immediately upon
the default of the principal, and without demand or notice.”].)
 
In order to
establish its breach of guaranty argument, Plaintiff submitted the following
evidence and argument: 
 
-        
It is undisputed that Richie personally
guaranteed the Richie P.C. Lease and Lee personally guaranteed the Equity LTD
Lease. (See UMF Nos. 31 & 32.)
 
-        
Tenant failed to perform its
obligations under the Lease by failing to pay rent owed under the Lease.
 
-        
Guarantor failed to make good on the
obligations of the Lease as required by the Guaranty. (See UMF Nos. 33 &
34.)
 
-        
Ave I is entitled to damages in the
amount of $569.554.00 personally against Richie and $202,213.00 personally
against Lee for their breach of the personal guarantees at issue.
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendants breached the guarantee,
and that Plaintiff is entitled to damages in the amount of $569.554.00
personally against Richie and $202,213.00 personally against Lee for their
breach of the personal guarantees at issue. More specifically, Plaintiff
submitted evidence which shows that Richie personally  guaranteed the Richie P.C. Lease and Lee
personally guaranteed the Equity LTD Lease, and submitted evidence which, as
set forth above, supports a reasonable inference that Defendants breached the
leases. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Defendants to disclose a triable
issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants did not submit any evidence specific to this claim.
Accordingly, the ruling set forth above applies equally here. 
 
C.   
Cross-Complaints
 
Defendants
filed Cross-Complaints asserting causes of action for “Breach of Lease” and
“Detrimental Reliance.” In its August 22, 2023 Order, the Court previously
adjudicated Defendants causes of action for “Detrimental Reliance” finding they
lacked merit. This leaves Defendants sole and remaining causes of action for
“Breach of Lease.” 
 
Under these
claims, Defendants allege that Plaintiff breached the Leases by failing to
obtain the CofO until November 2020, which Defendants assert was “too late” and
in violation of Paragraph 13.6(a) of the Leases and the language of the Leases
specifying that “time is of the essence.” (See Richie Defendant
Cross-Complaint at ¶¶ 9, 12-18, 26; Equity Defendant Cross-Complainants at ¶
9-14, 21.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant cannot establish this claim because these causes of
action ignore the express language of the Leases which provided that Ave I was
required to deliver possession of the Premises on the “Commencement Date,”
which has been established at the later of May 1, 2020, or issuance of the
CofO. (See Leases at ¶ 2.2.) As such, by the express terms of the Leases,
Plaintiff could not be in breach of the Lease agreements prior to the defined
“Commencement Date,” which ultimately was established by the issuance of the
CofO for the Property.
 
Plaintiff
further argues that Defendants’ reliance upon 13.6 of the Lease is misplaced.
This provision provides as follows:
 
 13.6 Breach by Lessor (a) Notice of Breach.
Lessor shall not be deemed in breach of this Lease unless Lessor fails within a
reasonable time to perform an obligation required to be performed by Lessor.
For purposes of this Paragraph, a reasonable time shall in no event be less
than 30 days after receipt by Lessor, and any Lender whose name and address
shall have been furnished to Lessee in writing for such purpose, of written
notice specifying wherein such obligation of Lessor has not been performed;
provided however, that if the nature of Lessor’s obligation is such that more than
30 days are reasonably required for its performance, then Lessor shall not be
in breach if performance is commenced within such 30 day period and thereafter
diligently pursued to completion.
 
(b)
Performance by Lessee on Behalf of Lessor. In the event that neither Lessor nor
Lender cures said breach within 30 days after receipt of said notice, or having
commenced said cure they do not diligently pursue it to completion, then Lessee
may elect to cure said breach at Lessee’s expense and offset from Rent the
actual and reasonable cost to perform such cure, provided however, that such
offset shall not exceed an amount equal to the greater of one month’s Base
Rent/TOTAL RENT or the Security Deposit, reserving Lessee’s right to
reimbursement from Lessor for any such expense in excess of such offset. Lessee
shall document the cost of said cure and supply said documentation to Lessor.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that this provision has no application since it was not in breach of the
Leases because it was only required to deliver possession of the Premises after
the “Commencement Date,” which was the later of May 1, 2020, or issuance
of the CofO. As for the latter event (i.e., issuance of the CofO), the Leases
do not specify a specific date for their issuance as it was understood that the
timing of the issuance of the CofO was up to the City. The “Commencement Date”
of the Leases was established by the City’s issuance of the CofO, which was
issued on November 12, 2020.  As such,
they could not be in breach of lease when Defendants provided unilateral notice
of termination on October 2, 2020 because the Leases did not commence until
November 12, 2020, which is the date the City issued the CofO for the Property.
 
            Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendants cannot establish their
breach of lease claims. More specifically, Plaintiff’s claims supports a
reasonable inference that they were not in breach of the lease because
Plaintiff was only required to deliver possession of the Premises after the
“Commencement Date,” which was the later of May 1, 2020, or issuance of the
CofO. The Leases do not specify a specific date for the issuance of the CofO as
it was understood that the timing of the issuance of the CofO was up to the
City, and Plaintiff used its best commercially reasonable efforts to deliver of
the Premises to Lessee by the Commencement Date.
 
            Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Defendants to disclose a triable issue of material fact.
 
            In
opposition, Defendants relied on the same evidence set forth above. For the
same reasons, the Court finds no triable issue as to any issue.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is granted. Excluding
CAMs, commissions, and late fees, Plaintiff suffered damages in unpaid base
rent of $306,384 for the breach of the Richie Lease and $107,639 for the Lee
Lease. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 