 Case Number:  23BBCV01158    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 1,
2024

MOTIONS
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01158

 



MP: 


Garfield Beach CVS, LLC (Defendant)




RP: 


Cultured Investments, LLC &
  Abstract Holdings, LLC (Defendants) [No Response Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Silva Mirzoyan
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Garfield Beach CVS, LLC (CVS), Cultured
Investments, LLC (Cultured), Specialized Realty, LLC, and Abstract Holdings,
LLC (Abstract) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that she was
injured when she tripped and fell on an unmarked parking block in a parking lot
located at 6588 Foothill Blvd., Tujunga, CA 91042. Plaintiff states causes of
action for (1) Negligence, and (2) Premises Liability. 
 
Before the Court are
two motions by CVS seeking leave to file a Cross-Complaint as against Co-Defendants
Cultured and Abstract. 
 
The Court notes that
these motions are unopposed. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed acquiescence to the merits of the
motion.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL STANDARDS
 
There are two types
of cross-complaints: compulsory cross-complaints and permissive
cross-complaints. A compulsory cross-complaint is a cross-complaint that is
asserted against the plaintiff and related to the subject matter of the
complaint. (C.C.P.§ 426.30.) A cross-complaint is “related” to the complaint if
it arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the complaint. (C.C.P.§ 426.10(c).) All other cross-complaints
are permissive cross-complaints.
 
C.C.P. § 426.50
provides that: “A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”
 
A liberal
construction is given to the application of the compulsory cross-complaint
statute. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Bao Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949,
967.) “The test requires not an absolute identity of factual backgrounds for
the two claims, but only a logical relationship between them.” The key question
is whether there “are any factual or legal issues relevant to both claims,” as
the goal is to avoid duplication of time and effort that comes from separate
suits on the same events. (Currie Medical Specialties, Inc. v. Bowen
(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 774, 777.) Claims that are only loosely related in that
they involve some of the same parties and the same matter, directly or
indirectly, are not logically related if the trial of the claims does not
involve a duplication of time and effort due to the fact that there are factual
and legal issues that are relevant to both claims. (ZF Micro Devices, Inc.
v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 84.)
 
If the proposed
cross-complaint is compulsory, leave must be granted so long as defendant is
acting in good faith. (C.C.P.§ 426.50.) If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interests of justice” at any
time during the course of the action. (C.C.P.§ 428.50(c).)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Regardless of whether the Cross-Complaint is compulsory or permissive,
as will be explained below, the Court finds that the Cross-Complaints would
indeed serve the interests of justice and should be permitted. 
 
As against Cultured, CVS seeks leave to file a
Cross-Complaint stating causes of action for (1) Express Indemnity, (2) Implied
Contractual Indemnity, (3) Equitable Indemnity, (4) Contribution, (5)
Declaratory Relief, (6) Equitable Apportionment of Fault, and (7) Breach of
Contract. (Peregretti Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.)
 
As against Abstract, CVS seeks leave to file a
Cross-Complaint stating causes of action for (1) Equitable Indemnification, (2)
Contribution, (3) Declaratory Relief, and (4) Equitable Apportionment of Fault.
(Peregretti Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.)
 
The Court first notes that neither Cultured nor Abstract
have opposed the motion, and thus have not shown they would be prejudiced by
the Cross-Complaints. The Court must balance this failure to oppose with the
observation that trial in this matter is scheduled for January 13, 2025. The
filing of Cross-Complaints so close to the commencement of trial inherently
raises concerns regarding prejudice to Cultured and Abstract in being able to
properly prepare for trial. 
 
The Court also observes that CVS offers no explanation as
to the delay between the filing of its Answer on June 3, 2023 and the filing of
these motions. CVS bases its motion entirely on the pleadings in Plaintiff’s
Complaint and presents no new facts obtained in discovery which brought their proposed
claims to light. In short, CVS provides no explanation for why it neglected to
move for a Cross-Complaint in the days this case has been pending since filing
of an answer. 
 
On the other hand, the Court finds allowing CVS to file the
Cross-Complaints would prevent duplicative litigation. CVS correctly contends
that the issues as to which party was responsible for “maintaining, inspecting,
lighting, managing and supervising, controlling and/or operating the premises”
is intimately intertwined with Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants. Allowing
the Cross-Complaints would obviate the need for additional litigation in a
relatively straightforward personal injury matter. Despite the lack of
explanation as to the delay in filing, the Court is of the opinion that permitting
the Cross-Complaints would serve the interests of justice by reducing the
multiplicity of actions resulting from this singular incident. 
 
Accordingly, the motions for leave to file the
Cross-Complaint are GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Garfield Beach CVS,
LLC’s Motions for Leave to File Cross-Complaint came
on regularly for hearing on November 1, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT AS AGAINST DEFENDANT CULTURED INVESTMENTS, LLC IS
GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT AS AGAINST DEFENDANT ABSTRACT HOLDINGS, LLC IS GRANTED.

 
CVS IS TO
FILE THEIR CROSS-COMPLAINTS WITHIN 15 DAYS. 
 
CVS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 