 Case Number:  23BBCV02645    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 1,
2024

MOTION FOR
APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02645

 



MP:  


Crescencio Gonzalez (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Above All Property Management, LLC
  & Abe Bak (Defendants) [No Opposition] 



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This
action is brought by Crescencio Gonzalez
(Plaintiff), on behalf of himself and other aggrieved employees, against Above
All Property Management, LLC & Abe Bak. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
violated numerous sections of the California Labor Code (Cal. Lab. Code) and
continue to do so. As part of this action, Plaintiff seeks to recover civil
penalties authorized by the statutory scheme commonly referred to as the
Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA). 
 
Before the Court is
Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion for Approval of PAGA settlement. This approval is
required in any action filed pursuant to PAGA as per Cal.
Lab. Code § 2699(s)(2). Plaintiff previously requested ex parte relief to
advance the hearing of this motion, which was originally set for November 15,
2024. The Court granted the request but was concerned about the disparity
between Plaintiff’s projected recovery and the settlement amount. The Court
requested the parties submit additional briefing, which it appears they have
done jointly. Having reviewed the initial submissions and subsequent briefs,
the Court now issues the following ruling. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“The
superior court shall review and approve any settlement of any civil action
filed pursuant to this part.” (Cal. Lab. Code § 2699(s)(2).) “Because many of
the factors used to evaluate class action settlements bear on a settlement’s
fairness—including the strength of the plaintiff’s case, the risk, the stage of
the proceeding, the complexity and likely duration of further litigation, and
the settlement amount—these factors can be useful in evaluating the fairness of
a PAGA settlement.” (Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
56.)
 
In
determining whether to approve a class settlement, the court’s responsibility
is to “prevent fraud, collusion or unfairness to the class” through settlement
and dismissal of the class action because the rights of the class members, and
even named plaintiffs, “may not have been given due regard by the negotiating
parties.” (Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 46, 60.)
 
A
presumption of fairness exists where: 1) the settlement is reached through arm’s
length bargaining; 2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow
counsel and the Court to act intelligently; 3) counsel is experienced in
similar litigation; and 4) the percentage of objectors is small. (Wershba v.
Apple Computer, Inc. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224, 244-245.) The test is not
the maximum amount plaintiff might have obtained at trial on the complaint but,
rather, whether the settlement is reasonable under all of the circumstances. (Id.
at 250.)
 
In
making this determination, the Court considers all relevant factors including “the
strength of [the] plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely
duration of further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action status
through trial, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery
completed and the stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of
counsel, the presence of a governmental participant, and the reaction of the
class members to the proposed settlement.’“ (Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail,
Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discussion 
 
This
hearing results from the Court’s request that the parties provide additional
briefing as to the amount of the settlement. The Court had concerns about the
disparity between Plaintiff’s assessment of $284,900 in initial civil penalties
and the $20,000 settlement. In order to assess this disparity, the Court finds
its necessary to examine the relevant statutory and case law governing the assessment
of PAGA penalties by trial courts. 
 
Cal.
Lab. Code § 2699(a) authorizes the recovery of civil penalties assessed under
PAGA in a representative action brought by an aggrieved employee in civil
court. Cal. Lab. Code § 2699(e)(1) authorizes a trial court to exercise the
same direction is assessing these penalties as may be exercised by the Labor
and Workforce Development Agency. 
 
Cal.
Lab. Code § 2699(e)(2) expounds on the previous section, stating in relevant
part: 
 
In any action by an
aggrieved employee seeking recovery of a civil penalty…a court may award a
lesser amount than the maximum civil penalty amount specified by this part…or
may, notwithstanding the limitations set forth in subdivisions (g) and (h)
exceed the limitations set forth in those subdivisions, if, based on the facts
and circumstances of the particular case, to do otherwise would result in an
award that is unjust, arbitrary and oppressive, or confiscatory.
 
The
landmark California Court of Appeal discussing the reduction of Civil Penalties
under PAGA is Amaral v. Cintas Corp. No. 2. In Amaral, the trial
court declined to exercise its discretion to reduce the amount of the civil
penalties assessed. (Amaral v. Cintas Corp. No. 2 (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th
1157, 1213.) On appeal, the defendant argued the trial court abused its
discretion under Cal. Lab. Code § 2699(e)(2) when it considered the remedial
purpose of PAGA in determining the amount of penalties. (Id.) The
defendant reasoned that the remedial purpose of PAGA had no bearing on a
determination of whether the penalties were “unjust, arbitrary and oppressive,
or confiscatory.” (Id.) 
 
The Amaral
court conceded that Cal. Lab. Code § 2699(e)(2) is vague in its provision
of judicial discretion. The court observed that the statute did not specify
guidelines for exercising discretion in general with regard to the amount of
penalties. (Id.) Regardless, the court held that this discretion was
limited in that the penalties could not be assessed as zero. (Id. at
1214.) The Amaral court reasoned that because Cal. Lab. Code §§ 210
& 225.5 states violators shall be subject to a civil penalty, a trial
court cannot exercise its discretion to reduce the award to nothing. (Id.
at 1210, 1213.) 
 
As
concerned the trial court’s finding that the penalties were incongruous, the Amaral
court affirmed that there was insufficient evidence to suggest this was the
case. (Id. at 1214.) The court stated the evidence showed the defendant
made no attempt to comply with the ordinances and that defendant’s violations
were willful. (Id.) The court further observed that the
$258,900 penalty was not confiscatory in light of evidence that defendant’s
parent company accrued $272 million in profits the year the violations
occurred. (Id.) This finding is contrasted by those in favor of
reduction by the trial courts in Thurman v. Bayshore Transit Management,
Inc. and Carrington v. Starbucks Corp. 
 
In Thurman,
the trial court reduced the civil penalties in light of evidence that the
defendant sought in good faith to remedy their violations after first receiving
notice. (Thurman v. Bayshore Transit Management, Inc. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 1112, 1136, disapproved of on other grounds by ZB, N.A. v.
Superior Court (2019) 8 Cal.5th 175.) The Court of Appeal affirmed
that these considerations were proper in the trial court’s exercise of
discretion. (Id.) The court also affirmed the trial court’s consideration
of defendant’s inability to pay the penalties from ongoing revenues. (Id.)
Similarly, the court in Carrington affirmed the reduction of civil
penalties based on consideration of the defendant’s good faith attempts to
comply with meal break obligations after notice of the initial violations. (Carrington
v. Starbucks Corp. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 504, 529.) 
 
Applying
the logic of Amaral and its progeny to this case, the Court finds that a
reduction in civil penalties is warranted. 
 
Plaintiff
states that his counsel’s exposure estimates were based on a projection of 60
aggrieved employees working a total of 1,568 from August 23, 2022 to the
present. (Donabedian Decl. ¶ 11.) From these numbers, Plaintiff
extrapolated a total of $284,900 in initial civil penalties and $1,652,000 in
subsequent penalties (those deriving from violations alleged to have occurred
after Plaintiff provided initial notice). (Donabedian Decl. ¶ 12.) In both his
initial and subsequent briefing, Plaintiff presents several factors which he
contends justifies a reduction in civil penalties from these projected amounts
to the proposed settlement $20,000.
 
First,
Plaintiff’s counsel states in his declaration that there is no evidence of any “subsequent
violations, citations, or judgments related to wage & hour violations
against Defendants.” (Donabedian Decl. ¶ 20.) In essence, despite the fact
that Plaintiff’s counsel projected $1,652,000 in subsequent penalties, they
uncovered no evidence to support that projection. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff states, without waiving the mediation privilege, that evidence was
presented in mediation which would have barred the presentation of a “substantial
amount” of Plaintiff’s PAGA claims. (Mot. p. 4.) Plaintiff states, “…it was
evident amongst the Parties that the damage calculations were not accurate
based on the liability in the case.” (Mot. p. 4.) In other words, the projected
$284,900 in initial penalties was also heavily inflated. 
 
In
considering the factors above, the Court is satisfied that the $20,000
settlement is appropriate. Imposition of the maximum civil penalty in this case
simply makes no sense where Plaintiff has admitted that the vast majority of
his PAGA claims are without factual/legal support. Given there is no evidence
of subsequent violations, it stands to reason that a reduced award of $20,000
is fair and reasonable in light of PAGA’s remedial and deterrent purposes. (See
Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 56, 77.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Approval of PAGA Settlement is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Crescencio Gonzalez’s
Motion for Approval of PAGA Settlement came on
regularly for hearing on November 1, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT IS
GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 