 Case Number:  23BBCV01008    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 1,
2024

MOTION
TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01008

 



MP:  


Bryon & Cornelius Hopson
  (Defendants)




RP:  


Jinny McTague (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jinny McTague
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Bryon & Cornelius Hopson
(Defendants). Plaintiff alleges she was injured by virtue of Defendants’
negligent operation of a motor vehicle. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to
yield at Fairmount Road & 5th Street in Burbank, CA, resulting in a
collision and Plaintiff being injured. 
 
Before the Court is a
Motion to Enforce Settlement brought by Defendants. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff initially agreed to a settlement in writing but thereafter refused to
comply. Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that no settlement exists because
she did not personally sign any writing memorializing the settlement.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §664.6 permits the trial court judge to enter judgment
on a settlement agreement without the need for a new lawsuit. (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 809-810.) The trial
court must first determine whether the parties entered into an enforceable
settlement. In making that determination, the trial court acts as the trier of
fact, determining whether the parties entered into a binding and valid
settlement. Trial judges may consider oral testimony or may determine the
motion based upon declarations alone. (Elyaoudayan v. Hoffman (2003) 103
Cal.App.4th 1421, 1428-1429.)
II.                
MERITS 
 
Relevant Facts 
 
Defendants’
argue that Plaintiff refuses to honor a Settlement Offer Letter sent by her
counsel on April 11, 2024. (Leaton Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 1.) This letter
demanded Defendants settle in the amount of $100,000, reflecting the policy
limits in the case. (Id.) This letter is signed by Plaintiff’s counsel,
Victor C. Marshall. (Id.) 
 
On
April 15, 2024, Defendants’ counsel responded to the Settlement Offer Letter by
accepting its terms. (Leaton Exh. B.) The language of the acceptance email is
as follows: 
 
I have authority to
meet Ms. McTague’s demand of $100,000, inclusive of any and all liens, in
exchange for USAA’s standard release of all claims signed by Ms. McTague and a
dismissal of the entire action, with prejudice, each side bearing their own
costs and fees. Cassandra will send the closing documents under separate cover
tomorrow. 
 
Please let us know if
there are any applicable statutory liens as separate checks would need to be
issued for Medicare, Medi-Cal or a CA ER lien. 
 
Last, please file a
notice of settlement with the court so that upcoming hearings can be vacated.
 
(Id.)

 
Plaintiff’s
counsel responded, “Thank you for the update. We will forward those to you
immediately. And thank you.” (Leaton Exh. C.) 
 
On
April 16, 2024, Defendants’ counsel emailed Plaintiff’s (1) a letter regarding
settlement, (2) a release, and (3) a request for dismissal. (Leaton Decl. Exh.
D.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “Please find attached the RFD with Attorney
Marshall’s signature. As soon as we have the release signed by Ms. Tague we
will send it too. We will file the notice of settlement today.” (Leaton Decl.
Exh. E.) 
 
On
April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an unconditional notice of settlement.
This notice has since been withdrawn. 
 
Party Signature v. Attorney Signature 
 
Plaintiff’s
primary argument in opposition is that the Settlement Offer Letter is not
binding because she did not personally sign it. Plaintiff argues that her
attorney’s signature is insufficient under C.C.P. § 664.6.
 
Traditionally,
C.C.P. § 664.6 was interpreted to require a signature by both the party seeking
to enforce a written settlement agreement and the party against whom
enforcement is sought. (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)74
Cal.App.4th 299, 305.) “Section 664.6 requires the parties’ signatures because
settlement is such a serious step that it requires the client’s knowledge and
express consent. [Citations.] A party’s signature fails to convey such
knowledge and consent unless it is contained in a document that was clearly
intended by that party to be a binding settlement agreement.” (Sully-Miller
Contracting Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103
Cal.App.4th 30, 37 [internal quotations omitted].)
 
The
authority relied upon by Plaintiff in opposing this motion reflects the
traditional understanding. Plaintiff cites both Sully-Miller Contracting and
Harris in asserting that the settlement agreement must be signed by
Plaintiff and that the signature of her counsel cannot suffice. The holding in Sully-Miller
Contracting and Harris on the invalidity of an attorney signature
reflects a version of C.C.P. § 644.6 which has since been revised. 
 
As
explained in Greisman v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1310,
C.C.P. § 644.6 was amended in January 2021. Prior to the amendment, C.C.P. §
664.6 read in its entirety as follows: 
 
If parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the settlement.
 
(Id.
citing Stats. 1981, ch. 904, § 2, p. 3437 [italics added].)
 
The
January 2021 revision read as follows: 
 
(a) If parties to
pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement....
 
(b) For purposes of
this section, a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the
following: [¶] (1) The party. [¶] (2) An attorney who represents the party. 
 
(Id.
citing Stats. 2020, ch. 290, § 1.)
 
In
2024, C.C.P. § 664.6 was further revised to add the following: 
 
(b): [¶] (3) If an
insurer is defending and indemnifying a party to the action, an agent who is
authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the party’s behalf. 
 
(Id.
at fn.4 citing Stats. 2023, ch. 478, § 12.)
 
The Griesman
court explained that the 2021 revision was done with the explicit purpose
of clarifying the legislative meaning behind the use of the word “parties” in
the statute. (Id. at 192.) Previously, whether the statute’s use of the
word “parties” allowed the signature of a representative attorney was a matter
of judicial interpretation. (See Levy v. Superior Court (1995) 10
Cal.4th 578, 586 [holding that the statutory context of the previous C.C.P. §
664.6 indicated the word “parties” was intended to reference only the litigants
themselves].) 
 
The
subsequent revisions of C.C.P. § 664.6 removed the ambiguity contemplated in Levy.
The current statute makes clear that the signature of a litigant’s attorney is
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of an enforceable settlement agreement.
As discussed in Greisman, the Senate Rules Committee and Judiciary
Committee contemplated that this revision would effectively remove the
requirement for more direct involvement of the litigants in the settlement
approval process. (Greisman supra, 103 Cal.App.5th 1310 citing Sen.
Rules Com., Off. of Sen. Floor Analyses, Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 2723
(2019–2020 Reg. Sess.) as amended Aug. 20, 2020, p. 5; Sen. Com. on Judiciary,
Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 2723 (2019–2020 Reg. Sess.).) Despite this lowered
protection, both committees determined this to be a reasonable trade off in
streamlining the process of amicable resolution. (Id.) 
 
Although
Greisman concerned an oral stipulation before the Court, its discussion
of the writing provisions of C.C.P. § 664.6 is instructive in this case. Greisman
clarifies that an enforceable settlement agreement can be signed either by
the litigant or their representative attorney. Plaintiff’s argument that she
did not sign the agreement relies on an ambiguity in C.C.P. § 664.6 which no
longer exists. Plaintiff’s Settlement Offer Letter is clearly signed by her
counsel in satisfaction of C.C.P. § 664.6.
 
Release 
 
Plaintiff
next argues that the settlement is unenforceable because it was conditioned on
her signing a Release sent by Defendants. As will be explained below, the Court
does not find that Plaintiff’s request for a Release in her Settlement Offer
Letter is a condition precedent to the existence of a settlement in this case. 
 
“A
condition precedent is either an act of a party that must be performed or an
uncertain event that must happen before the contractual right accrues or the
contractual duty arises. Conditions precedent may be created either
expressly—by words such as “subject to” or “conditioned upon”—or impliedly.
They are generally disfavored and are strictly construed against a party
arguing the agreement imposes one. Courts will not interpret a provision as a
condition precedent absent clear, unambiguous language requiring that
construction. (Estate of Jones (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 948, 953
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the following excerpt from her Settlement Offer Letter is a
condition precedent to the creation of a settlement: 
 
This offer is further
conditioned on my client reviewing and executing a release to be draft[sic] by
counsel for Cornelius and Byron Hopson, which also must be received by May 13,
2024. 
 
(Leaton
Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that her signature on the Release was a condition for the formation of a
settlement agreement. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive.  
 
Here,
the language of the Settlement Offer Letter does not state explicitly that the
settlement itself is conditioned on the signing of the release. It instead
states that “this offer” is conditioned on the receipt and signature of the
release. In the Court’s view this wording is ambiguous. The Court does not see
how a settlement can be conditioned on the occurrence of an event which can
only happen after a settlement has been agreed to. If no settlement agreement
has been reached, there is no reason for Defendants to draft a Release and no
reason for Plaintiff to sign it.  
 
It
appears far more likely to the Court that this language was intended simply to
require Defendants to draft and send the Release. On this front, Defendants
upheld their end of the bargain when they drafted and sent the Release as
requested. Allowing Plaintiff to renege on the basis that she did not
thereafter sign the Release makes little sense. It cannot be that Plaintiff can
dispute the existence of a settlement simply because she refuses to sign a
document specifically requested in her signed Settlement Offer Letter.  
 
Lastly,
Plaintiff’s argument that the signing of the Release was a condition precedent
to the formation of a settlement is undermined by her filing of an unconditional
Notice of Settlement. If Plaintiff’s signature on the Release was a condition
precedent to the settlement, Plaintiff has provided no explanation for why her
counsel did not so state in the Notice of Settlement. 
 
In
short, Plaintiff’s refusal to sign the Release has no bearing on whether a
settlement agreement was reached in this case. Plaintiff’s counsel specifically
requested the release, Defendants obliged, and Plaintiff’s counsel then
confirmed receipt with no modifications. That Plaintiff thereafter refused to
sign the release does not negate the clear intentions of the parties to enter
into a settlement.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Bryon & Cornelius
Hopson’s Motion to Enforce Settlement came on
regularly for hearing on November 1, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED.  
 
DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN,
Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 