 Case Number:  23BBCV01854    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 1,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01854

 



MP:  


Brian Christopher Williams
  (Defendant) 




RP:  


Drequinn Johnson (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Drequinn Johnson (Plaintiff) brings
this action against Brian
Christopher Williams (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured when
Defendant’s vehicle collided with his own on the 101 Freeway. 
Before the Court is a
motion by Defendant to compel Plaintiff’s deposition pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.450.
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion. The
Court notes that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion
may be deemed consent to its being granted. 

 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
A motion made pursuant to C.C.P. §
2025.450 The motion shall include “a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Here, the Court finds that Defendant has
not satisfied the meet and confer requirements. Defendant’s motion includes a
declaration from his counsel attesting to two attempts to take Plaintiff’s
deposition. On July 16, 2024, Defendant’s counsel served notice of deposition
on Plaintiff via email. (Chowdry Decl. Exh. A.) Although Defendant states that
Plaintiff never appeared for this deposition, the declaration is silent as to
any attempt to contact Plaintiff and inquire as to the reason for nonappearance.
(Chowdry Decl. ¶ 3.) On August 1, 2024, Defendant again noticed
Plaintiff’s deposition, this time via email and U.S. mail. (Chowdry Decl. Exh. C.)
Defendant again states that Plaintiff did not appear for this deposition but
makes no representations about any attempt to contact Plaintiff regarding the
nonappearance. (Chowdry Decl ¶ 5.) 
 
The Court’s concern regarding the meet
and confer efforts is made greater by virtue of the fact that Plaintiff is
self-represented in this matter. On June 21, 2024, the Court granted a motion to
be relieved as filed by Plaintiff’s counsel. Since that time Defendant appears
to have been diligently serving the deposition notices on both Plaintiff and
his former counsel. Regardless, the statute is clear that Defendant is required
to make an effort to informally inquire about the nonappearance prior to
bringing this motion. The Court does not construe re-noticing Plaintiff’s
deposition after the first nonappearance as fulfilling that purpose. 
 
As such, the motion to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition is DENIED without prejudice. Should Defendant attempt to
contact Plaintiff regarding the nonappearance and be unsuccessful, the Court
invites him to refile the motion. 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Brian
Christopher Williams’s Motion to Compel
Deposition came on regularly for hearing on November
1, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S ATTENDANCE AT
DEPOSITION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
November 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 