 Case Number:  23BBCV02301    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
NOVEMBER 1,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02301

 



MP:  


Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Defendant) 




RP:  


Grigor Aghekyan (Plaintiff) [No
  Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Grigor Aghekyan (Plaintiff) brings this
action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured, and his car was damaged,
when a bus operated by Defendant struck the open door of Plaintiff’s vehicle.
 
Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff’s initial response to their Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production of Documents (RFPD). Defendant
does not request sanctions in connection with these three motions. 
 
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion. Pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be
deemed acquiescence to its merits. On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
substitution of attorney, informing that he now represents himself in this
action. Upon review, Defendant’s motions appear to have been properly served on
Plaintiff via U.S. mail. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On June 18, 2024, Defendant served their Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD on Plaintiff via email to Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Saroukhanioff Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s responses to these
discovery demands were due by July 22, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 3.) On July
23, 2024, having received the substitution of attorney, Defendant sent a letter
to Plaintiff via U.S. mail requesting responses and granting an extension to
August 5, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 3, Exh. B.) Defendant states they have
received no discovery responses or requests for extension from Plaintiff as of
filing these motions. 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s unopposed motions to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
No sanctions were sought by
Defendant.  As such, the Court declines
to award sanctions in connection with these motions. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly for hearing on November 1, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEFENDANT’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.  
 
FURTHER RESPONSES DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.   
 
DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
November 1, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 