  Case Number:  24PSCV00918    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2025    Dept:  H Mediterranean  Shipping Company (USA) Inc. v. Yun Long Trucking Inc., Case No. 24PSCV00918 Plaintiff Mediterranean Shipping Company  (USA) Inc., as agent for MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A.’s Application  for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. Background Plaintiff Mediterranean  Shipping Company (USA) Inc., as agent for MSC Mediterranean  Shipping Company, S.A. (“Plaintiff”)  alleges as follows:           On or about September 28, 2021, Plaintiff  and Yun Long Trucking Inc. (“Defendant”) entered into a “Uniform Intermodel  Interchange and Facilities Access Agreement” (“Access Agreement”), wherein  Plaintiff agreed to provide goods and/or services to Defendant in exchange for  Defendant’s payment. On or about June 12, 2023, Defendant breached the Access  Agreement by failing to pay for foods and/or services provided by Plaintiff. On  March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a breach of contract cause  of action against Defendant and Does 1-100. On  November 12, 2024, Defendant’s default was entered.Pending before the Court is Plaintiff's application for default judgment. Discussion  Plaintiff’s  default judgment application is denied without prejudice. The  following defects are noted:           1.       Plaintiff  has not provided the Court with any documentary evidence of its standing to sue  as agent of MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A.            2.       Plaintiff  has not provided the Court with any signature pages to the various Access Agreements  attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Neil Ross (“Ross”). Only one of  multiple “Participating Party Agreement” pages in Exhibit 1 appears to have  been completed by Defendant.            3.       The  Court requests that Plaintiff attach copies of the invoices summarized in Exhibit  3 to Ross’s declaration.  Accordingly,  the application is denied without prejudice; Plaintiff is directed to submit a  revised default judgment packet that addresses the aforementioned issues.                   