  Case Number:  21STCV17510    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  39 A. Jamal Shakir v.
City of Los Angeles, et al.
Case No.
21STCV17510
Motion for New
Trial and Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
 
            Plaintiff
A. Jamal Shakir (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the City of Los Angeles
(the “City”) and certain Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) officers after
he was hit with “less than lethal” projectiles during a Black Lives Matter
demonstration in downtown Los Angeles. 
The case proceeded to trial against the City, as well as Officer Eric
Anderson (who is Plaintiff’s uncle) and Sergeant Robert Bechtol.  The jury found in favor of Defendants on the
civil rights claim and the battery claim. 
The jury found in favor of Plaintiff against Sergeant Robert Bechtol and
the City on the negligence claim and awarded him a total of $3.75 million in
past and future non-economic losses.  The
Court also asked the jury to determine the percentage of liability for
Plaintiff’s injuries.  The jury
determined that Sergeant Bechtol was 30% liable, and the City, by and through
unknown LAPD officers, was 70% liable, for Plaintiff’s injuries.  
 
            Now,
Defendants move for a new trial on the negligence claim, arguing as follows: (1)
Plaintiff should not have been allowed to establish liability against an
unidentified employee; (2) The special verdict form was defective because it
permitted Plaintiff to recover for direct liability against the City and/or
impose vicarious liability without establishing he necessary elements of a
negligence claim against a single employee; (3) The motion to amend to permit
Plaintiff to assert liability against a John Doe LAPD officer, per Government
Code sections 815.2, should not have been granted; (4) The evidence was
insufficient to justify the verdict; (5) The special verdict was inconsistent;
and (6) The damages were excessive.  Defendants
also move for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict on similar grounds.  
 
A.        Plaintiff’s
Negligence Claim and the Motion to Amend 
 
            Plaintiff
asserted a negligence claim against the City, as well as Sergeant Bechtol.  In support of that claim, Plaintiff alleged
as follows:
 
¶ 45.    Plaintiff
incorporate by reference the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 44
above as if fully set forth here.
 
¶ 46.    On or before May 29, 2020, each of the Defendants CITY, ANDERSON,
and DOES 1 through 40 owed Mr. SHAKIR the duty to be free to walk and/or
peacefully protest on the streets of Los Angeles, without inflicting using
[sic] excessive, unreasonable, or unlawful force upon him.
 
¶ 47.    On or about May 29, 2020, each of these Defendants violated that
duty of care in the negligent, careless, unintentional and reckless manner with
which they interacted with Mr. SHAKIR including, but not limited to: 
 
a.         The
negligent investigation into Mr. SHAKIR’ [sic] presence, and the negligent
decision to use unreasonable force against him; and/or 
 
b.         The
negligent and careless training the Defendants CITY and DOES 31 through 40
provided Defendants ANDERSON, and DOES 1 through 30 concerning the use of
unreasonable force which was inconsistent with general law as well as the state
mandated policies and procedures as reflected in the Peace Officers Standards
and Training (“POST”) program; and/or 
 
c.         Defendants
ANDERSON, and DOES 1 through 30’s negligent, careless, and unintentional
failure to follow the use of force training the Defendants CITY and DOES 31
through 40 provided them; and/or 
 
d.         Defendants
ANDERSON, and DOES 1 through 30’s failure to properly assess the need to
detain, imprison, and/or use force against Mr. SHAKIR; and/or 
 
e.         Defendants
ANDERSON, and DOES 1 through 30’s negligent, careless, and unintentional
discharge of their less-than-legal firearms while their weapons were pointed
toward Mr. SHAKIR, causing the injuries and damages as described here; and/or
f. The negligent handling of evidence and witnesses during the course of the
investigation following the incident.
 
¶ 48.    As a legal result of Defendants CITY, ANDERSON, and DOES 1
through 40’s actions and inactions as described here, Mr. SHAKIR sustained
severe and permanent disfiguring injuries, pain and suffering to his mind and
body in the past, and is reasonably likely to suffer similar injuries in the
future, all in an amount to be determined according to proof at trial.
 
¶ 49.    As a further legal result of each of the Defendants ANDERSON, and
DOES 1 through 40’s conduct, JAMAL has been required to employ and did employ
medical doctors, psychologists and psychiatrists to examine, treat and care for
him. Consequently, JAMAL has each incurred medical costs for past medical bills
and expenses, and expects to incur similar medical costs and expenses in the
future, all in an amount to be determined according to proof at trial.
 
In sum, Plaintiff asserted a common
law negligence claim against the City, as well as LAPD Officer Eric Anderson
and Does 1 through 40.  The complaint
makes clear that Does 1 through 30 are LAPD officers who were at the protest
that night and actually used unreasonable force.  (See Complaint, ¶ 47(b) & (c).)  The complaint makes clear that Does 31
through 40 are LAPD supervisors who provided training to the LAPD officers on
scene that night.  (Ibid.)  On November 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed an
amendment naming Sergeant Robert Bechtol in place of Doe 1.  On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
amendment naming LAPD Officer Jesse Correa in place of Doe 2 (who was later
dismissed).  The case proceeded to trial
with Doe 3 through 30, who were LAPD officers at the scene that night.  
 
The complaint had a legal error in
that Plaintiff asserted a common law claim against the City directly.  This was not permissible because under
Government Code section 815(a), a public entity is not liable for an injury caused
by the act or omission of a public employee except as provided by statute.  Per Government Code section 815.2, however, a
public entity is liable for an injury caused by a public employee “if the act
or omission would . . . have given rise to a cause of action against that
employee . . . .”  (Gov. Code, §
815.2(a).)  Plaintiff’s counsel
predicated this cause of action on Government Code section 820, which states:
“[A] public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the
same extent as a private person.”  (Gov.
Code, § 820.)  However, Plaintiff’s
counsel neglected to cite section 815.2(a) as a basis for the negligence cause
of action.  The City did not demur to the
complaint on this basis, so this issue first arose during trial.  After Plaintiff rested, and before the
Defendants’ case-in-chief, Plaintiff’s counsel made a motion to amend the
complaint to conform to proof to add Government Code section 815.2 to support
the negligence claim against the City. 
(RT: 8/16/23: pp. 246:17-248:7.)  The
Court granted that motion and declines to revisit the decision.  The Court incorporates its ruling on the
motion, contained in the Court’s order of August 17, 2023:
 
COURT’S ORDER
GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff A. Jamal Shakir (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against the City of Los Angeles (the “City”), as well as Los Angeles Police
Department (“LAPD”) Officer Eric Anderson and Sergeant Robert Bechtol
(collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiff named LAPD Officer Jesse Correa, but
dismissed him shortly before trial. Plaintiff asserts a cause of action under
the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Civil Code section 52.1, et seq., against the
City and the individual defendants. Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for battery
against Sergeant Bechtol. Finally, Plaintiff asserts a cause of action for
negligence against the individual defendants and the City under Government Code
section 820. Now, Plaintiff moves to amend the complaint to fix an error: The
complaint omitted Government Code section 815.2 as a basis for liability
against the City. The City does not oppose this motion as it relates to common
law claims against Officer Anderson and Sergeant Bechtol. However, the City
opposes the motion as it relates to Plaintiff’s claim of negligence against the
City based upon the actions of an unknown LAPD officer. Plaintiff’s counsel
intends to argue this as an alternative theory in the event the jury concludes
that Officer Anderson and Sergeant Bechtol are not liable. The motion is
granted. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The Court has authority to grant leave to amend the
complaint to conform to proof at trial under Code of Civil Procedure section
473(a)(1). Such amendments have been allowed “with great liberality.” (Garcia
v. Roberts (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 900, 909, citing Trafton v. Youngblood (1968)
69 Cal.2d 17, 31.) However, “amendments to conform to the proofs should not be
allowed when they raise new issues not included in the original pleadings and
upon which the adverse party had no opportunity to defend.” (Garcia, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at p. 909, citing Trafton, supra, 69 Cal.2d at p. 31.) Simply, the
Court considers the nature of the amendment, the potential prejudice, and the
reason for the delay. (See Duchrow v. Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359,
1378-1379, citation omitted.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Government Code section 815 provides that “[a] public entity
is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or
omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person” except
as provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a); see Hoff v. Vacaville
Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of
public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be
liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general
tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of
immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine application
of general tort principles.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) Government Code section 820 provides that “a
public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the same
extent as a private person.” (Gov. Code, § 820(a).) Government Code section
815.2 imposes liability upon a public employee’s employer: “A public entity is
liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public agency within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee . . . .” (Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).) Accordingly, Plaintiff seeks to
amend each cause of action to assert liability against the City under section
815.2. The only dispute between the parties is whether Plaintiff should be
permitted to do so with respect to the negligence claim against the City based
upon the actions of an unknown LAPD officer. The Court answers this question in
the affirmative for several reasons. 
 
First, the amendment merely adds the legal basis for
liability against the City and does not change the factual allegations in the
complaint. Defendants’ counsel argues that Plaintiff seeks to assert an
entirely new claim against the City. In fact, the complaint alleges that
another LAPD officer may have negligently fired the less-than-lethal shots that
injured Plaintiff. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that: 
 
“On or about May 29, 2020, each of these Defendants violated
that duty of care in the negligent, careless, unintentional and reckless manner
with which they interacted with Mr. Shakir, including, but not limited to . . .
Defendants Anderson, and Does 1 through 30’s negligent, careless, and
unintentional failure to follow the use of force training . . . and/or [their]
negligent, careless, and unintentional discharge of their less-than-legal [sic]
firearms while their weapons were pointed toward Mr. Shakir, causing [his]
injuries and damages . . . .” 
 
(Complaint, ¶ 47.) The complaint provided sufficient notice
that the actions of Does 3 through 30, i.e., unidentified LAPD officers who may
have fired the shots, would be at issue. The complaint also makes clear that
Plaintiff would seek to hold the City responsible for the actions of these
unknown officers. (See Complaint, ¶ 48.) The mere fact that Plaintiff’s counsel
elected to focus on his stronger claims at trial does not change the fact that
the complaint provides sufficient notice of his alternative theory.
 
Second, the Court finds good cause to permit the amendment.
As an initial matter, the failure to allege section 815.2 as a basis for the
City’s liability clearly was an oversight, given how the complaint was drafted.
The City is named as a defendant with respect to common law claims, and this is
defective on its face in the absence of a reference to section 815.2. More
important, there is good cause to permit the amendment given the facts of this
case. The videos and eyewitness testimony are not conclusive concerning the
identity of the LAPD officer who injured Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s counsel’s
theory at the beginning of trial was that Sergeant Bechtol fired the shots that
injured his client. However, Defendants’ counsel did an effective job
cross-examining witnesses on this issue. Defendants’ counsel did an effective
job cross-examining Plaintiff on whether Officer Anderson actually pointed the
baton at him. Moreover, Sergeant Bechtol testified that he believed a different
LAPD officer fired the shots that injured Plaintiff. In the face of these
developments during trial, Plaintiff is entitled to pursue an alternative
theory in the event the jury accepts Defendants’ counsel’s arguments and
Sergeant Bechtol’s testimony. 
 
Finally, the Court finds no undue prejudice to the City.
Because the City was a defendant in this case and faced potential liability for
the alleged actions of the named defendants, the City had notice at the outset
that it would need to investigate whether an LAPD officer caused Plaintiff’s
injuries. In other words, regardless of the identity of the individual
defendants, the City knew it would have a complete defense if it could prove
that another protestor caused Plaintiff’s injury. Therefore, the amendment does
not change the discovery on this issue. 
 
The Court understands Defendants’ counsel’s argument that he
did not anticipate Plaintiff’s counsel relying on his alternative theory.
However, the issues will have been fully tried in this case, as there is no
real dispute that Plaintiff was injured by an LAPD officer. There is no
evidence that Plaintiff was hit with anything other than a less-than-lethal
projectile; the LAPD officers were the only ones shooting that night; the
videos showed LAPD officers shooting immediately before Plaintiff was hit; and even
Sergeant Bechtol testified that he thinks Plaintiff was hit with a
less-than-lethal projectile from an LAPD officer. Simply, there is no basis to
conclude that Defendants’ counsel would have litigated the case differently
based upon the identity of the particular officer.
 
At heart, whether the LAPD officers shot Plaintiff is not
the dispositive issue with respect to the negligence claim. Rather, the
dispositive issue is whether the LAPD officers were negligent, and the City’s
argument is the same on this point regardless of the identity of the individual
officer. Presumably, Defendants’ counsel will argue that the shooting officer
was not negligent because it was a chaotic situation necessitating the use of
force; some of the weapons were not target specific; and Plaintiff was
negligent in failing to leave the area following the dispersal order. 
 
Finally, Defendants’ counsel’s concern does not implicate
the proposed amendment. Even had Plaintiff’s counsel included reference to
section 815.2, the issue would have been the same: Plaintiff’s counsel would
now seek to pursue this alternative theory, and Defendant’s counsel would raise
the same concerns. Plaintiff’s lawyers are free to plead alternative theories
and adapt their case based upon developments at trial. 
 
B.        Liability against
Unidentified Employee 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff may not proceed with a negligence claim against a Doe
defendant—which gave rise to liability against the City under Government Code
section 815.2—because the employee must be “specifically identified.”  This does not require Plaintiff to “name” the
offending officer.  This much is clear: In
order for vicarious public entity liability to attach, the public employee must
be “either named as a defendant or at least ‘specifically identified’ by the
plaintiff.”  (Koussaya v. City of
Stockton (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 909, 944.) 
“[I]f a specific individual officer has not engaged in an act or
omission giving rise to that officer’s tort liability, the City cannot be held
vicariously liable.”  (Id., p. 945,
citing Munoz v. City of Union City (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1113.)  Plaintiff satisfied this standard.  There is no dispute that the only law
enforcement officers at the scene that evening were LAPD officers.  The video recordings and other evidence make
clear that only a limited number of officers were firing less-than-lethal
projectiles.  Plaintiff’s claim was based
on one of these officers negligently firing less-than-lethal projectiles that
injured him.  This is sufficient to
support the jury’s verdict, and Defendants’ motions are denied on this
ground.    
 
            C.        The Joint Special Verdict Form
 
            Next,
Defendants’ counsel argues that the joint special verdict form was deficient
because it permitted the jury to find direct liability against the City.  Defendants’ counsel argues as follows:
“[O]ver Defendant’s objections, the Special Verdict form reflected direct
liability findings against the City, in contravention of the law” because “the
jury was asked whether unreasonable force was used by the City of Los Angeles
(‘Unknown Officers’).”  (Defendants’
Memorandum of Points & Authorities in Support of Motion for New Trial, p.
5:12-15.)  Similarly, Defendants argue
that the special verdict was inconsistent because the jury found in favor of
Defendants on the battery claim but found against them on the negligence
claim.  The Court denies the motions on
these for two reasons.
 
            1.         Defendants stipulated to the joint special
verdict form
 
            In fact,
Defendants’ counsel stipulated to the joint special verdict form, including the
reference to a finding against the “City of Los Angeles (Unknown Officers).”  The record is as follows:
 
            Following
the Court’s decision to grant Plaintiff’s motion to amend to add Government
Code section 815.2 as a predicate for the negligence claim, the Court ordered
the parties to prepare a revised verdict form. 
(R/T: 8/17/23: 102:22-103:22.) 
The Court ordered the parties to email the verdict form to the Court
that evening and bring hard copies the next morning.  (R/T: 103: 8-14.)  On August 17, 2023, at 8:25 p.m., Jamon Hicks
sent an email to Judge Stephen Goorvitch, Kevin Rashidi, Thomas Hurrell, Carl
Douglas, and a host of others who worked at Plaintiff’s and Defendants’
counsels’ law firms.  The email stated:
“Per your instructions, attached please find the Joint Special Verdict Form
that has been agreed upon by both parties.” 
  The attached proposed joint
special verdict form had the following question in relevant part:  
 
       6.  Did Defendants negligently use unreasonable
force against Jamal Shakir?
CITY OF LOS ANGELES    Yes
________  No ________
 (Unknown
Officers)
 ROBERT
BECHTOL            Yes
________  No________
The
Court has attached a copy of the email and attachment to this order.  (See Exhibit A.)   
 
            The next morning, the Court
discussed the jury instructions and proposed joint special verdict form.  Defendant’s counsel referenced the proposed
joint special verdict form and stated: “The verdict form itself makes it clear
that they can make [a] finding against an unknown police officer,” referencing
the proposed joint special verdict form. 
(R/T: 8/18/23: 15:4-6.) 
Initially, the Court expressed concern because the parties’ proposed
joint special verdict form did not track the elements of the causes of action.  (R/T: 8/18/23: 26:1-27:18.)  The Court proposed a general verdict form,
and Plaintiff’s counsel agreed, but Defendant’s counsel objected because he
wanted a special verdict form.  (R/T:
8/18/23: 27:28-28:8.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel then confirmed that Defendants’ counsel had stipulated to the proposed
joint special verdict form, and Defendants’ counsel did not object.  (R/T: 8/18/23: 28:27-29:22.)  At that point, the Court proposed re-doing
the verdict form to track the elements. 
(R/T: 8/18/23: 29:23-30:3.)  The
Court provided a revised verdict form that more closely tracked the elements.  (R/T: 8/18/23: 34:25-26.)  
 
            Finally, the parties rejected the
Court’s proposed special verdict form and stipulated to their own joint special
verdict form, which was used in this case:
 
            The Court:       I
had originally raised some questions about the verdict form, and I went and
wordsmithed it on my own, and I think the attorneys -- and I’ll note the
attorneys have been working very professionally together.  I think the attorneys actually have fixed the
problem in a lot more expeditious way than I did. . . .  So, basically, the parties had agreed on a
verdict form.  They e-mailed me a version
last night.  Mr. Hurrell noticed two
changes that he wants to make that Plaintiff has agreed to.  No. 1, the verdict form on the second cause
of action for battery, Question No. 4, “Did Defendant Bechtol intentionally” –
adding the word “intentionally” – “use unreasonable force?”  And with respect to the third cause of
action, negligence, Question No. 6, “Did Defendants negligently use
unreasonable force against Jamal Shakir” and then adding the words “to enforce
the dispersal order.”  Correct, Mr.
Hurrell?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:     Yes.
 
            The Court:      Correct,
Mr. Hill -- Sorry -- Mr. Hicks?
 
            Mr. Hicks:       Yes,
Your Honor.
 
            The Court:      All right.  So let me
just be really clear for our record.  My
understanding is that this verdict form does not actually track the elements
the way special verdict forms often do, and my understanding is the attorneys
want to do it that way because there are certain elements that are in dispute,
and there are certain elements that are not in dispute, and this is an unusual
case in the sense that there are a lot of things that are actually agreed upon
by the parties.  And my understanding is
the reason the parties want to use this special verdict form that only asks the
jury certain questions and omit other [elements] is because they really want to
focus on what is truly in dispute.  And
the parties are agreeing that if the jury gives “yes” answers to each question
for the cause of action, that is sufficient to support the verdict on that
cause of action.  Correct, Mr. Douglas?
 
            Mr. Douglas:   Yes,
Your Honor, it’s correct.
 
            The Court        So stipulated,
Mr. Douglas?
 
            Mr. Douglas:   Yes,
Your Honor, we’ll stipulate [to] it.
 
            The Court:      Correct,
Mr. Hurrell?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:    Yes.
            
            The Court:      So
stipulated?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:     Yes.
 
            The Court:       I
will use your verdict form with those two changes . . . .
 
(R/T: 8/18/23: 57:19-60:14.)  The Court then made the changes and provided copies
to the attorneys:
 
            The Court:       I went ahead and made the changes to the verdict form.  The parties gave me a verdict form.  The changes I made were -- I did them in
redline and then went through and highlighted the changes and gave each
attorney a copy. . . .  Mr. Hurrell, have
you had a chance to look at the changes?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:    Not
yet, but I’m sure they’re fine, Your Honor.
 
            The Court:      Just take a look right now. 
I appreciate your trust in me, Mr. Hurrell; But let’s be careful.  Why don’t you take a look, and I’ll ask you
when you’re done.
 
            (Brief Pause)
 
            The Court:      So,
Mr. Hurrell, have you had a chance to review the changes?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:    Yes,
and they look fine.
 
            The Court:      All
right.  Are you stipulating to the use of
this verdict form?
 
            Mr. Hurrell:    Yes,
Your Honor.
 
(R/T: 8/18/23: 63:24-65:1.) 
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Defendants’ motions are denied
on this ground.  Defendants stipulated to
the verdict form that was used, including the reference to liability against
“The City of Los Angeles (Unknown Officers).” 
Accordingly, this is not a basis to grant Defendants’ motions.  (See, e.g., Mesecher v. County of San Diego
(1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686-1687.)
 
            2.         There was
no error in the verdict form
 
            Regardless, there were no errors in the special verdict
form.  The form made clear that any
liability against the City was based upon the actions of “Unknown
Officers.”  Similarly, there is nothing
inconsistent with the verdict form.  The
jury found that the LAPD officers did not “intentionally use unreasonable force
on Plaintiff Jamal Shakir.”  (See Special
Verdict Form, Question No. 4.)  Indeed,
Defendants’ counsel requested the addition of the word “intentionally” to this
question.  (R/T: 8/18/23: 58:25-59:7.)  The jury found that the LAPD officers
“negligently use[d] unreasonable force against Plaintiff Jamal Shakir to
enforce the dispersal order.”  (See
Special Verdict Form, Question No. 6.) 
In sum, the jury found that the officers acted negligently, not
intentionally, and the verdicts are not inconsistent.  
 
            D.        The
Damages 
 
            Defendants argue that the damages
were excessive in this case.  The Court may
grant a new trial
based on “[e]xcessive or inadequate damages” or “[i]nsufficiency of the
evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657, subds. (5),
(6).)  “A
new trial shall
not be granted upon the ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other
decision, . . . unless after weighing the evidence the court is convinced from
the
entire record,
including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly
should
have reached a
different verdict or decision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)  If the damages are
excessive, the Court may grant a remittitur. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 662.5(a)(2).)  Plaintiff
presented evidence that he suffered a permanent injury to his dominant hand
which impacted his career.  Plaintiff
presented evidence that he suffered an injury to his buttocks.  Plaintiff presented evidence that he suffered
emotional damages for which he received, and will continue to receive,
treatment.  The Court cannot conclude
that the jury’s award was excessive under these circumstances.  
            
            E.         The Evidence 
 
            Defendants
argue that the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict.  The jury watched the video recordings of the
incident, which showed the events of the evening and the less-than-lethal
projectiles hitting Plaintiff.  There was
sufficient evidence for the jury to conclude that the LAPD officers acted
negligently in the course and scope of their duties.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motions for new trial and for
a judgment notwithstanding the verdict. 
Defendants’ counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.  