 Case Number:  21STCV42420    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion of Defendant Sandeep Khanna, M.D., for Summary Judgment
Motion of Defendant Miguel Unzueta, M.D., for Summary Judgment
Motion of Defendant Mercy Eye Care Medical, Inc., for Summary Judgment
 
TENTATIVE
 
The summary
judgment motion of Defendant Sandeep Khanna, M.D., is granted.
 
The
hearing on the summary judgment motion of Defendant Miguel Unzueta, M.D., is
continued for approximately 14 days.
 
The hearing
on the summary judgment motion of Defendant Mercy Eye Care Medical, Inc., is continued
for approximately 14 days.
 
The
Court continues the trial date, on its own motion, for good cause, for
approximately 30 days.
 
Background
 
On November 17, 2021, Plaintiff Norma Berry (“Plaintiff”) filed the
Complaint in this action against Defendants Mercy Eye Care Medical, Inc. (“Mercy”), Miguel Unzueta, M.D.
(“Unzueta”), Sandeep Khanna, M.D. (“Khanna”), and
Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action for medical malpractice and lack
of informed consent, arising out of medical care and several procedures for
cataracts during the period of June through September 2020. 
Mercy and Khanna filed an answer on January 27,
2022. Unzueta filed an answer on January 28, 2022.
On October 5, 2023, Khanna filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of December 19, 2023.
On October 6 2023, Mercy filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of December 20, 2023.
On October 13, 2023, Unzueta filed a motion for
summary judgment, with a hearing date of January 8, 2024.
On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition to the motions of
Mercy and Khanna, along with objections. Mercy and Khanna filed their replies
on December 14 and 15, 2023.
The
Court, on its own motion, continued the hearings on the motions filed by Mercy
and Khanna. Subsequently, on Plaintiff’s ex parte application, the Court
continued the hearings on all three motions to April 4, 2024.
On
February 22, 2024, the Court granted the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel to be
relieved.
Prior to
the hearing on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff did not file any opposition to
Unzueta’s motion.
The
three motions came on for hearing on April 4. After hearing from both sides,
the Court continued the hearings to April 30, 2024. The Court ordered Plaintiff
to file any opposition to the motions, in writing, by April 16. 
Plaintiff
did not file any opposition by April 16. On April 17, Plaintiff filed a document
entitled “Reason # Hospitalization” indicating that she had been hospitalized
and/or had undergone some type of medical procedure on or about April 11.
On April
26, 2024, just two days before the hearing, Plaintiff filed a document entitled
“Doctors Report” which appears to be an opposition to Unzueta’s summary
judgment motion. It is unclear whether Plaintiff served Defendants.
Legal
Standard
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Discussion
The
Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Unzueta
Unzueta moves
for summary judgment on the grounds that the undisputed facts show that he met
the standard of care, that he did not cause Plaintiff’s injury, and he
adequately disclosed all important risks in obtaining Plaintiff’s consent.
In a
medical negligence action, a plaintiff must establish the following elements:
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of [the] profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.” (Galvez
v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4tha 1410, 1420; Simmons v. West Covina
Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02.)  “Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be
established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008), 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
A medical
professional breaches the duty of professional care by failing to act in
accordance with the prevailing industry standard of care. (See Folk v. Kilk
(1975) 53 Cal.App.3d 176, 186.) “The standard of care
against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly
within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice
action and can only be proved by their testimony …, unless the conduct required
by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’”
(Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 410.) 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action must “present
evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from finding that it
was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the standard of care.”
(Johnson v. Super. Ct. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) “When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports [the] motion with expert
declarations that [their] conduct fell within the community standard of care, [the
defendant] is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward
with conflicting expert evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of
California¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿
Here, Unzueta
presents the declaration of Jonathan M. Davidorf, M.D. (“Dr. Davidorf”), who is
a Diplomate of the American Board of Ophthalmology, a Clinical Assistant
Professor of Ophthalmology at UCLA School of Medicine, Jules Stein Institute,
and has been in private practice in the field of ophthalmology for
approximately 28 years. (Davidorf Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3-4 & Exh. A.) Dr. Davidorf
is familiar with the standard of care in the medical profession that applies to
ophthalmologists within the community. (Id., ¶ 6.)
Dr.
Davidorf has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records. (Id., ¶
7.) Based upon that review, Dr. Davidorf opines that Unzueta acted at
all relevant times within the standard of care related to his care and
treatment of Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 9-17.) Dr. Davidorf also opines that
no action or inaction by Unzueta caused or contributed to the injuries of which
Plaintiff complains. (Id., ¶¶ 18-19.)
Dr. Davidorf’s opinion
testimony is “evidence which, if uncontradicted, would constitute a
preponderance of evidence that an essential element of the plaintiff’s case
cannot be established.” (Kids’ Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
870, 879.) The expert opinion testimony of Dr. Davidorf is evidence that Unzueta
complied with his duties under California law and the standard of care for a
reasonably careful medical professional under similar circumstances.
With this evidence, Unzueta has
satisfied the initial burden of showing that one or more elements of the causes
of action in the complaint cannot be established. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show
that there is a triable issue of one or more material facts as to the causes of
action. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff did not file a
timely opposition to Defendant Unzueta’s motion for summary judgment. She did,
however, file what appears to be a late opposition on April 26, just two court
days before the hearing. This opposition attaches a sworn Jerry Sebag, M.D., board
certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology, a former clinical professor
of ophthalmology at USC (1990-2014), a current professor of clinical ophthalmology
at UCLA (2019 to present), a Founding Director of VMR Institute for Vitreous
Macula Retina, who states that he has 38 years of experience in the field. Dr.
Sebag states that it is his opinion that Defendant Unzueta “fell below the
standard of care in providing treatment to Norma Berry, specifically as related
to the 9-9-20 cataract surgery performed on the left eye.”
Although this document was
filed well after the due date, the Court, after taking into consideration the
importance of this motion, will exercise its discretion to accept Plaintiff’s filing
of April 26 and to treat it as an opposition to Defendant Unzueta’s motion.
As Defendant Unzueta has not
yet had a full and fair opportunity to analyze the opposition and to file any
reply, the Court will continue the hearing for approximately 14 days and permit
Defendant Unzueta to file and serve a reply no later than five days before the
new hearing date.
The Court also, on its own
motion, continues the trial for approximately 30 days, for good cause. The
Final Status Conference is reset based on the new trial date. No discovery
deadlines are extended.
The
Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Khanna
As an
initial matter, Plaintiff’s objections to the evidence presented by Defendant Khanna
are overruled.
Khanna
moves for summary judgment on the grounds that the undisputed facts show that
he met the standard of care, that he did not cause Plaintiff’s injury, and he
adequately disclosed all important risks in obtaining Plaintiff’s consent.
Khanna presents
the declaration of Michael Reynard, M.D. (“Dr. Reynard”), who is board
certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology, is a former Chief of
Ophthalmology at Providence-St. John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, and is
currently an Attending Physician in Ophthalmology at UCLA School of Medicine. (Reynard
Decl., ¶ 2 & Exh. 1.) Dr. Reynard is familiar with the standard of care in
the medical profession that applies to ophthalmologists treating patients such
as Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 4.)
Dr.
Reynard has reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records and discovery materials in
this litigation. (Id., ¶ 5.) Based upon that review, Dr. Reynard
opines to a reasonable medical probability that Khanna acted at all relevant
times within the standard of care related to his care and treatment of
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 10-15.) Dr. Reynard also opines to a reasonable medical
probability that there is nothing that Khanna did or failed to do in violation
of the standard of care that caused or contributed to any injury alleged by Plaintiff.
(Id., ¶¶ 16-17.)
Dr. Reynard’s opinion
testimony is “evidence which, if uncontradicted, would constitute a
preponderance of evidence that an essential element of the plaintiff’s case
cannot be established.” (Kids’ Universe, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 879.)
The expert opinion testimony of Dr. Reynard is evidence that Khanna complied
with his duties under California law and the standard of care for a reasonably
careful medical professional under similar circumstances.
With this evidence, Khanna has
satisfied the initial burden of showing that one or more elements of the causes
of action in the complaint cannot be established. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show
that there is a triable issue of one or more material facts as to the causes of
action. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff has filed an
opposition but presents no evidence (expert or otherwise) to make this showing.
The most recent filing of Plaintiff (on April 26) does not mention Defendant
Khanna or include any expert opinion testimony stating that Defendant Khanna’s
treatment of Plaintiff fell below the standard of care. Accordingly, Defendant Khanna’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
The
Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Mercy
As an
initial matter, Plaintiff’s objections to the evidence presented by Defendant
Mercy are overruled.
Mercy
moves for summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff’s theory is that it is derivatively
liable as the principal or employer of Unzueta and Khanna, and the undisputed
facts show that both Unzueta and Khanna met the standard of care, that neither
Unzueta nor Khanna caused Plaintiff’s injury, and that both Unzueta and Khanna adequately
disclosed all important risks in obtaining Plaintiff’s consent.
As the Court is
continuing the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendant Unzueta, and
Mercy’s potential liability is derivative (at least in part) of Unzueta’s, the
Court also continues the hearing on Mercy’s summary judgment motion.
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS the motions for summary judgment filed by Defendant Khanna.
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motions for summary judgment filed by
Defendants Unzueta and Mercy.
The Court GRANTS Defendants
Unzueta and Mercy leave to file and serve supplemental replies no later than
five days before the new hearing date.
The Court, on its own motion, CONTINUES
the trial for approximately 30 days, for good cause. The Final Status Conference
is reset based on the new trial date. No discovery deadlines are extended.
Moving Parties
are ordered to give notice.
 