 Case Number:  22STCV06463    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Serve by Publication or Posting filed by Plaintiff Salaheddine
El Moqaddem.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
Plaintiff Salaheddine El Moqaddem (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action on February 22, 2022, asserting causes of action for 1)
Trespassing/Home Invasion (2) Negligence, (3) Property Damage, (4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
against Albert Gregory Pinto (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 25.
 
On August
21, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to serve by publication or posting.  The hearing has been continued several times.
 
Legal Standard
Where no law exists for the service of
summons in a particular action, the court may direct that summons be served in
a manner which is reasonably calculated to give actual notice to the party to
be served and that proof of such service be made as prescribed by the court.”
(Code Civ. Pro., §413.30.) 
“A summons may be served on a person outside
this state in any manner provided by this article or by sending a copy of the
summons and of the complaint to the person to be served by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, requiring a return receipt. Service of a summons by this form of mail
is deemed complete on the 10th day after such mailing.” (Code Civ. Pro., §
415.40.)
“A summons may be served by publication if
upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action
is pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be
served in another manner specified in this article and that either (1) a cause
of action exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she
is a necessary or proper party to the action; or (2) the party to be served has
or claims an interest in real or personal property in this state that is subject
to the jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action consists
wholly or in part in excluding the party from any interest in the property.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
“If a defendant's address is ascertainable, a
method of service superior to publication must be employed, because
constitutional principles of due process of law, as well as the authorizing
statute, require that service by publication be utilized only as a last
resort.” (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal.4th 743, 749, fn. 5.)¿The
means of service described in sections 415.10 through 415.40 make service by
publication unnecessary except where a defendant's whereabouts and his dwelling
house or usual place of abode, etc. cannot be ascertained with reasonable
diligence.” (Ibid.) The term “reasonable diligence” denotes a thorough,
systematic investigation and inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or
his agent or attorney.¿(Ibid.) Several honest attempts to learn
defendant's whereabouts or his address by inquiry of relatives, and by
investigation of appropriate city and telephone directories, [voter registries,
and assessor's office property indices situated near the defendant's last known
location], generally are sufficient. (Ibid.) These are the likely
sources of information, and consequently must be searched before resorting to
service by publication. (Ibid.) Before allowing a plaintiff to resort to
service by publication, the courts necessarily require him to show exhaustive
attempts to locate the defendant, for it is generally recognized that service
by publication rarely results in actual notice.”¿ (Ibid.)  
The plaintiff must establish reasonable
diligence via the testimony of an individual with personal knowledge of the
efforts to serve the defendant.¿ (Olvera v. Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d
32, 42; Donel, Inc. v. Badalian (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 327, 333 [“the
question is simply whether [plaintiff] took those steps which a reasonable
person who truly desired to give notice would have taken under the
circumstances”].)¿ Likewise, a plaintiff must establish that a cause of action
exists against the defendant via the testimony of an individual with personal
knowledge of the underlying facts.¿ (Harris v. Cavasso¿(1977) 68
Cal.App.3d 723, 726.)¿ 
Discussion
On February
22, 2022, Plaintiff filed his complaint with the Court. Plaintiff states he has
been attempting to serve Defendant to no avail. Plaintiff states he attempted
at his previous address in Santa Monica. (El Moqaddem Affidavit, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff no longer lives at this address. (Id.)  Plaintiff states that the
State Bar reflects Defendant’s address to be in Brownwood, Texas. (Id., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff retained a process server,
who after several attempts (Plaintiff does not state how many) was unable to
serve Defendant. (Id., ¶ 3)
 
Plaintiff attempted to serve Defendant through registered
UPS Mail Delivery.  (Id., ¶ 4.) (The Court notes that it is unclear whether Plaintiff is referring to
the United States Postal Service, which is commonly abbreviated as “USPS,” or the
private United Parcel Service, which is commonly abbreviated as “UPS.”) Plaintiff
attempted to serve Defendant in Las Vegas at his mother’s address by personal
and substituted service but was unsuccessful. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff tried to serve a copy to
mother of Defendant but was unsuccessful. (Id., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff attests that he has checked the Texas and
Federal prison system but did not see Defendant listed on either. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 415.40,
service may be made on an out-of-state defendant by “sending
a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.”  Plaintiff has not shown that he has attempted
to serve Defendant in this manner, with a return receipt requested, or, if so,
whether a return receipt was received.
 
Service by publication is a last resort.  Plaintiff has not yet shown a sufficient
basis for service in this manner.
 
Finally, the Court notes that if Plaintiff files a subsequent
motion for service by publication, Plaintiff must identify the newspaper or
other periodical in which the summons will be published and explain the basis
for the selection.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES, at this time and on this record, Plaintiff’s motion
to serve by publication.