 Case Number:  23STCV01972    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On January 27, 2023, Justine Kish
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Aaron Wells Russell (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 10 for negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on October 29, 2021.  Defendant
filed his answer on September 25, 2023.
 
On April 3, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to continue trial. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 17, 2024.
Defendant filed a reply on April 23, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant issued a deposition subpoena for production of business
records for Ultimate Fighting Championship (“UFC”), Plaintiff’s employer, on
September 15, 2023. (Stone Decl., ¶ 9.) After hearing back from UFC, Defendant
filed an ex parte application for an Order and Issuance of Commission for Out
of State Deposition Subpoena; the ex parte was granted and Defendant provided
the order to UFC. (Id., ¶ 12.)
Defendant reached out to UFC in March 2024, and UFC objected to providing the
subpoenaed records on new grounds. (Id., ¶ 13.)
Defendant is now in the process of issuing a new subpoena. (Ibid.) 
Defendant contends the UFC records, including Plaintiff’s medical
records, are necessary to develop a full medical history and investigate
whether the accident caused the injuries claimed by Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶ 14-17.)

Defense counsel also contends that he is unavailable for the current
trial date, as he has a trial in Merced county starting on July 23, 2024; that
case has been continued several times and has completed mediation. (Id., ¶ 18.) In this matter, in contrast, there have
been no continuances. (Id., ¶ 20.)
The Court has considered all of the facts and circumstances, the
arguments of both sides, and the evidence presented.  The Court finds good cause exists to continue
trial as discovery needs to be completed and Defendant’s counsel is unavailable
for the current trial date. Further, there have been no previous continuances
in this matter.
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial.
The trial date
is advanced and continued for approximately six months.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.