 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Physical
Examination of Plaintiff filed by Defendant Lyft, Inc.
Tentative
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
On October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and
Does 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring,
training, retention, and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out
of an automobile accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles.  Lyft and Bah filed their answers on January
27 and May 1, 2023.
On March 15, 2024, Lyft filed this motion for
leave to conduct a medical examination of Plaintiff. Lyft filed a declaration
of Joshua Prager, M.D., M.S., in support of the motion on April 5.  Plaintiff filed an opposition and an objection
on April 17. Lyft filed a reply on April 23 and a response to the objection on
April 24.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action,
(2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the
legal control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical
condition (including the blood group) of that party or other person is in
controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal
injury action, the defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff
as of right, without advance leave of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
If a defendant
seeks a further physical examination of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the
defendant must first file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The court may grant such a motion “only
for good cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good
cause generally requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying
discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action
or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 

 “An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe¿in
detail¿who will conduct the examination, where and when it will be
conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these
‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is to list
them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
The moving
party¿must support the motion with a meet and confer declaration.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration must
state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Id., §
2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿ 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id.,
§ 2032.020, subd. (a).) 
Preliminary Matters
Lyft has satisfied the meet and confer requirement of
section 2032.310, subdivision (b).  (Sellers Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff’s objection to Exhibit 3 to the Sellers
Declaration on the ground that it is a confidential settlement communication is
SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff’s objection to the declaration of Dr. Joshua Prager
is OVERRULED.  Although not filed and
served with the moving papers, the declaration was filed and served on April 5,
2024, 17 court days in advance of the hearing. 
To the extent that it is not timely, the Court exercises its discretion
to consider the late filed paper.
Discussion
Plaintiff
has agreed to undergo an orthopedic examination and a neurological
examination.  By this motion, Lyft seeks
leave for a third physical examination by Dr. Joshua Prager regarding pain management.
The
California Legislature has set forth certain specific, mandatory requirements
for a motion for leave to obtain discovery through an additional physical examination,
as well as for the conduct of the examination itself.  Lyft fails to satisfy these mandatory
requirements.
A motion
for leave to obtain discovery through an additional physical examination must
“specify the “time” of the examination. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  Lyft, however, does not give notice regarding
the date of the examination, stating only that it should occur “within 60 days
of this order, or no later than 30 days before trial, whichever is sooner.”  That is insufficient.  Lyft plainly knows how to prepare a notice that
includes a specific date and time for an examination (See Sellers Decl., Exh.
5.)  For whatever reason, however, Lyft
has chosen not to comply with the Code requirements here.
For this
procedural reason, the Court must deny Lyft’s motion.  The denial is without prejudice.  The Court need not reach, and does not reach,
the other issues raised by the parties in the briefing, including, but not
limited to, whether good cause has been shown for the additional physical
examination. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Lyft’s motion for leave to obtain discovery by an
additional physical examination of Plaintiff on procedural grounds, without
prejudice.
Moving
Party is to give notice.