  Case Number:  21STCV01740    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  74 Feinberg
Mindel Brandt & Klein LLP v. Jessica Gadsden
Plaintiff Feinberg Mindel Brandt
& Klein LLP’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
filed a complaint against defendant for unpaid attorneys’ fees.
            On
March 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel arbitration.
            As
of November 15, 2024, no opposition was filed.   
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
 (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  This is usually done by presenting a copy of
the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration .
. . must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of
the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)  The moving party must also establish the other
party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  
            The
Court shall order arbitration unless it determines that grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.)  Under California law,
and the Federal Arbitration Act, an arbitration agreement may be invalid based
upon grounds applicable to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud,
duress and public policy, which would be matters for the court to decide.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
presented evidence of the arbitration agreement.  The agreement was entered into by the parties
on November 20, 2017.  The agreement
states, in pertinent part,
Arbitration. The parties hereto agree that any dispute
relating to attorneys’ fees under this Agreement shall be submitted to
arbitration before the Los Angeles County Bar Association pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code, sections 6200 et seq…
Plaintiff alleges that the agreement
covers the Complaint filed by Plaintiff for outstanding attorneys’ fees. 
            Plaintiff
has met its burden in establishing that an arbitration agreement exists. 
            Defendant
indicated an interest in arbitration in her answer to the complaint.  Plaintiff has attempted to contact the
Defendant both before filing the complaint and after receiving the answer but
received no response.  (Niedbalski, ¶¶
2-4.)  Defendant’s unresponsiveness is
deemed a refusal to arbitration.  
            Plaintiff
has its burden to compel arbitration.
            
CONCLUSION             
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration. 
            Plaintiff to give notice.