 Case Number:  24STCV04486    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  74 LUCRA
Automotive LLC v. Bidlane LLC et al. 
Defendants Nasrin Mansoori and Susan
Mansoori’s Motion to Stay
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
motion arises from a fraud and breach of contract claim against Bidlane LLC,
Salim Mansoori (Salim), Nasrin Mansoori (Nasrin), Susan Mansoori (Susan)
(collectively Defendants), the State of California Department of Motor
Vehicles, Steven Gorden as Director of the Department of Motor Vehicles, and
Does.  Plaintiff has named additional
defendants.
            Defendants
Nasrin and Susan filed a motion to stay proceedings until the outcome of the Department
of Motor Vehicles’ investigation and any criminal litigation brought because of
that investigation. 
             
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            To
determine if a court should stay proceedings in light of a parallel criminal
case, the court considers “the extent to which a defendant’s Fifth Amendment
rights are implicated.”  (Avant! Corp.
v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885 (citing Keating v.
Office of Third Supervision (1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324.)  The defendants must show how truthful
testimony subject to the privilege could be helpful to their defense on the
merits in this case.  (IBM Corp. v.
Brown (1994) 857 F.Supp. 1384, 1390.)
The
court also considers (1) the interest of the Plaintiffs in proceeding
expeditiously and the potential prejudice to the plaintiffs of a delay, (2) the
burden that may be imposed on the defendant, (3) the convenience of the court
and efficient use of judicial resources, (4) the interests of third persons,
and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.  (Avant! Corp, supra, 79
Cal.App.4th at p. 885 (citing Keating, supra, 45 F.3d at p. 326.))
“A defendant has no absolute right not to be forced to choose between
testifying in a civil matter and asserting his Fifth Amendment privilege.”  (Avant! Corp, supra, 79
Cal.App.4th at p. 885 (citing Keating, supra, 45 F.3d at p.
326.))
 
DISCUSSION
            LUCRA
filed this civil action alleging that LUCRA provided floor-plan financing for
Bidlane’s used-car business.  (Complaint,
¶ 19-22.)  Bidlane was supposed to use
the financing to purchase vehicles and then to sell the vehicles, paying LUCRA
the principal, interest, and fees. 
(Complaint, ¶ 21.)  LUCRA alleges
that instead of paying LUCRA, Bidlane converted the vehicles and failed to pay LUCRA
the proceeds. The DMV is investigating Bidlane for customer complaints that
Bidlane agreed to sell their vehicles and then failed to pay the customers as
promised.  (Youngbin ¶ 4.)  
            These
civil case and investigation are not identical, as the Defendants allege, but
they are overlapping.  Both cases involve
buying and selling cars, and Bidlane’s failure to pay for the cars it has purchased
and sold at the same locations.  Based on
documents available to the Court, the DMV is investigating only Bidlane.  The complaint alleges that Salim directs and
controls Bidlane, and that the other defendants worked with Salim to create the
fraudulent scheme.  (Complaint, ¶ 33.)  Defendants allege that an investigation into
Bidlane, Salim and “others” is ongoing, but provide no evidence supporting that
the “others” being investigated are Nasrin or Susan.  Given that Nasrin and Susan have failed to
show that they are personally under investigation with the DMV, defendants
Nasrin and Susan have failed to meet the initial showing that they are subject
to a parallel criminal proceeding.
            Additionally,
Nasrin and Susan have failed to demonstrate how truthful testimony subject to
the Fifth Amendment privilege would be helpful in their defense in this case.  (IBM Corp, supra, 857 F.Supp.
at p. 1390.)  
            
CONCLUSION
            The
court denies defendants Nasrin Mansoori and Susan Mansoori’s motion to stay the
proceedings.
            Defendants
to give notice.