 Case Number:  24STCV16765    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MEGAN DENKERS BACA, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DONNA STEWART,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV16765
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 10, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Donna Stewart (“Defendant”) moves to portions of
the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Megan Denkers Baca (“Plaintiff”) relating to
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to strike.
 
Background
 
            This
is a landlord-tenant case. The following facts are taken from the allegations
of the Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
resides at 338 Orizaba Av., #2, Long Beach, California 90814 (the “Property”).
Plaintiff is a tenant at the Property. Defendant is the landlord for the
Property.
 
            While
Plaintiff lived at the Property, the ceiling suffered water damage due to a
leak in the unit upstairs. In September 2019, Plaintiff informed Defendant that
the ceiling in the Property suffered from water damage. Defendant told
Plaintiff that the leak was “not a priority”. (Complaint ¶ 11.)
 
            Following
this interaction, the bathroom ceiling in the Property caved in, exposing wood
and pipes. Plaintiff was unable to use the master bathroom or bedroom for one
month following the collapse.
 
            In
July 2022, the neighbor’s water heater broke and leaked into the master bedroom
and hall closets. The water damage was never fixed, and water stains remain on
the ceiling. The water damage has caused continuous musty smells up to the
present.
 
            In
December 2023, the valve to the toilet in the hall bathroom leaked all night,
leaving a half inch of standing water in the entire Property. Coastline was
called in to complete repairs. Plaintiff alleges that Coastline was instructed
to withhold any information form Plaintiff regarding job completion. As a
result, Plaintiff did not know when it would be safe to return home. Plaintiff
also alleges that Coastline discovered other unspecified conditions when it
removed the baseboards.
 
            Rainwater
also seeped through the wall in the second bedroom, which was Plaintiff’s son’s
bedroom. Water also seeped through the sliding glass door of the master
bedroom. Plaintiff requested remediation, but Defendant refused to make
updates.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on July 5, 2024, raising claims for (1) negligence; (2)
premises liability; (3) private nuisance; (4) tortious breach of the implied
warranty of habitability; (5) breach of contract; (6) breach of the implied
warranty of quiet enjoyment; and (7) constructive eviction.
 
            Defendant
filed the motion to strike on September 3, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition
and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)

 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”
(Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
California courts have approved punitive damages where a
landlord persistently fails to address substandard conditions. As the Court of
Appeal explained in one case,
 
“The
pleadings sufficiently allege facts setting forth long existing physical
conditions of the premises which portend danger for the tenants. The pleadings
also set out that respondents knew of those conditions for up to two years, had
power to make changes, but failed to take corrective and curative measures. If
proven, these allegations would support an award of punitive damages. We
conclude that the motion to strike the punitive damage allegations was
therefore improperly granted.”
 
(Penner v. Falk (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)
 
The facts here are weaker than in Penner. It is
unclear how long Plaintiff reported the ceiling stain prior to the ceiling
collapse. It is also less clear that the facts of the stain and leak portended
danger. In Penner, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant landlord had
maintained the building in a way that created hiding places for potential
criminals,  while knowing that various
crimes had occurred on the premises and in the neighborhood in the years
leading up to the subject attack on the plaintiff. (Penner, supra, at
pp. 862-863.) 
 
Reading the Complaint as a whole, however, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has adequately alleged malice and oppression. Plaintiff alleges
that the repair company Coastline was instructed not to apprise Plaintiff of
the progress on repairs when Plaintiff’s apartment was flooded, resulting in
Plaintiff not knowing when she could return home. Similarly, Plaintiff has
alleged a pattern of Defendant’s failure to repair various leaks in spite of
Plaintiff’s complaints. Further, unlike in Penner, Plaintiff complained
about the upstairs leak which led to the collapse, and Defendant stated that it
was not a priority. (Contrast Penner, supra, 153 Cal. App.3d at
p. 864 [defendants allegedly failed to disclose premise defects to plaintiff].)
These facts, taken together, could allow a reasonable jury to make a finding of
malice or oppression.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion to strike.