  Case Number:  22STCV36148    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOHN DOE, A. P., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DOE 1, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV36148
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 10, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff John Doe A.P. (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order quashing
or modifying 31 subpoenas issued by Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (“LAUSD”) 
 
            The
subpoenas for Plaintiff’s radiology records are quashed.
 
            The
subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical and billing records are modified as follows: 
 
The responding entities shall only produce documents
relating to diagnosis and treatment of mental and psychological conditions.
Where records pertain solely to physical conditions as well as mental or
psychological conditions, the responding parties shall redact the information
that does not pertain to mental or psychological conditions.
 
In responding to the subpoenas, the responding entities
shall redact all information pertaining to Plaintiff’s sexual history with any
individuals other than Yanez.
 
The responding parties will send the responsive documents to
Plaintiff’s counsel for further review. Within 15 days of receiving those
documents, Plaintiff will redact the documents for any remaining private
information about physical conditions and sexual history, and provide a
privilege log of any information redacted by Plaintiff to LAUSD. If LAUSD
disputes any items in the privilege log, it may move to compel production.
 
The Court makes these orders based on Plaintiff’s
representation that he is not seeking any recovery for physical injuries.
Rather, he is seeking only emotional and mental injuries. Plaintiff will be
bound by that representation throughout this case and at trial.
 
The Court makes these orders without prejudice based on the
current state of the record.  If LAUSD
later discovers some more specific reason that additional medical records are
relevant to this case, it may seek their production through further discovery.
 
Background
 
This is a childhood sexual assault case. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant Yanez, during his employment as a teacher at LAUSD, committed
acts of sexual abuse against Plaintiff during the 1981 school year, when
Plaintiff was a minor student at LAUSD.
 
Around 1997, Yanez was convicted of sexual abuse of another
minor.
 
In around 1997 or 1998, the Commission suspended and
subsequently revoked Yanez’s teaching credentials.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Doe 1 and Doe 2 on
November 15, 2022, raising claims for (1) childhood sexual abuse; (2)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (3) negligent hiring,
supervision, and retention of unfit employee under Government Code, sections
815.2 and 820; (4) failure to report suspected child abuse under Government
Code, sections 815.2 and 820; (5) negligent supervision of a minor; and (6)
negligence.
 
LAUSD was named as a defendant by Doe amendment on April 21,
2023. Yanez was named as a defendant by Doe amendment on April 27, 2023.
 
On July 14, 2023, Yanez was dismissed from this action per
Plaintiff’s request.
 
At issue in this motion are 31 subpoenas issued by LAUSD to
various entities to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records. (Shirdel Decl., Ex. 2.)
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff moved to quash the
subpoenas. LAUSD filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition, and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2017.010.)
 
“ ‘Relevant evidence’ means evidence, including evidence
relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code, § 210.)
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of documents, the court may, upon motion reasonably made, make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  
In making an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd.
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
Contents of the Subpoenas
 
 LAUSD subpoenaed the
following organizations for Plaintiff’s medical records:
 
Downtown Family Health Care
Family Health Centers of San Diego
Logan Height Family Health Center
National City Family Medical Center
San Diego Imaging
San Ysidro Health
Scripps Mercy Hospital
Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center
Sharp Rees-Stealy Downtown Urgent Care
CVS-Caremark
Rite Aid Pharmacy
Walgreens Pharmacy
Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy
 
The subpoenas for all of the abovementioned facilities
request the following documents:
 
“Any
and all documents and records pertaining to the care, treatment, and
examination of the individual named herein (refer to special instructions for
date limitations) including but not limited to all medical records, office, ER,
pathology records, inpatient and outpatient charts and records. Produce all
electronic discovery records including correspondence and email records, prescriptions
& patient questionnaires. All descriptions of exercises prescribed and documentation
which indicates dates and times of patient's appointments. Include all physical
therapy and occupational therapy notes, nurses' notes, flow charts and progress
notes.”
 
(Separate Statement at p. 2:21-28.)
 
            LAUSD
subpoenaed the following organizations for Plaintiff’s billing records:
 
            Downtown
Family Health Care
Family Health Centers of San Diego
Logan Height Family Health Center
National City Family Medical Center
San Diego Imaging
San Ysidro Health
Scripps Mercy Hospital
Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center
Sharp Rees-Stealy Downtown Urgent Care
 
            The
subpoenas for all of the abovementioned facilities request the following documents:
 
“Any
and all itemized statements of charges and payment transactions pertaining to
the care, treatment and examination of the individual named herein (refer to
special instructions for date limitations) including but not limited to all
billing, invoices, statements, and insurance billing/claims. Also, any and all
medical bills, medical billing records, billing adjustments, liens, explanation
of benefits statements, correspondence relating to billing, records showing
write-offs of amounts billed, billing write-downs, billing write-ups and
records of payment(s) by insurance carriers, governmental entities, and/or any
other person or entity from any and all sources.”
 
(Separate Statement at p. 3:11-18.)
 
            LAUSD
subpoenaed the following organizations for Plaintiff’s radiology records:
 
            Downtown Family Health Care
Family Health Centers of San Diego
Logan Height Family Health Center
National City Family Medical
Center
San Diego Imaging
San Ysidro Health
Scripps Mercy Hospital
Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center
Sharp Rees-Stealy Downtown Urgent
Care
 
            The
subpoenas for all of the abovementioned facilities request the following
documents:
 
“All
documents, records, and charts pertaining to the care, treatment and
examination of the individual named herein (refer to special instructions for
date limitations) including but not limited to all original films, radiological
reports, MRI's, axial images, CT scans, photographs, reproduced in color if
color exists. Please include a breakdown of the views taken, number of views
and dates of the views prior to duplication.”
 
(Separate Statement at p. 4:2-7.)
 
Analysis
 
Physical Medical History
 
“A person's medical profile is an area of privacy infinitely
more intimate, more personal in quality and nature than many areas already
judicially recognized and protected.” (Board of Medical Quality Assurance v.
Gherardini (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 669, 678 disapproved of on other grounds by
Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.) “[P]laintiffs are ‘not
obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,]
mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which
relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by
bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all
unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the
past.” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864.)
 
Importantly, this is not a case where Plaintiff’s physical
condition is at issue. 
 
In Plaintiff’s Complaint, he alleged both physical and
mental injuries as a result of the alleged assaults. (Moore Decl. in Support of
LAUSD’s Opposition ¶ 2, citing Complaint at ¶¶ 30, 35.) 
 
However, in response to multiple interrogatories asking
Plaintiff to identify his injuries resulting from the conduct alleged in the
Complaint, Plaintiff stated:
 
“[s]ubstantial
emotional and mental injuries, including, but not limited to, feelings of
depression, severe anxiety, and feelings of mistrust and frustration, sadness,
social anxiety, grief, among others” and “[s]ubstantial emotional and mental
injuries, including but not limited to, feelings of depression, severe anxiety,
anger, and feelings of mistrust, grief, and social anxiety, and sadness”.
 
(Moore Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
            Although
LAUSD highlights the words “among others” and “included but not limited to” in
its opposition, Plaintiff has confirmed that “Plaintiff’s claims are solely
related to emotional and mental injuries”. (Reply at p. 2:8-9.) If Plaintiff
were to prevail on his motion to quash based on the argument that he does not
seek damages for physical injuries, he would be judicially estopped from later
seeking such damages. (State Water
Resources Control Bd. Cases (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 826–827 [Judicial estoppel applies “when: (1) the same party has taken
two positions; (2) the positions were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial
administrative proceedings; (3) the party was successful in asserting the first
position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or accepted it as true); (4)
the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not
taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.”].)
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff does not actually seek damages based on physical injuries – only
psychological ones.
 
            LAUSD’s
counsel declares that “[LAUSD] is informed by speaking with psychological
experts that physical injuries can contribute to psychological problems.”
(Moore Decl. ¶ 5.) This is not an adequate basis on which to open discovery
into Plaintiff’s entire medical history.
 
            The
subpoenas for Plaintiff’s radiology records are quashed.
 
            The
subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical and billing records are modified as follows:
the responding entities shall only produce documents relating to diagnosis and
treatment of mental and psychological conditions. Where records pertain to
physical conditions as well as mental or psychological conditions, the responding
parties shall redact the information that does not pertain to mental or
psychological conditions.
 
Sexual History
 
Plaintiff further objects to the subpoenas on the grounds
that they potentially include medical information about Plaintiff’s sexual
history. The opposition does not dispute that the subpoenas may reveal such
information.
 
In sexual assault cases, a plaintiff’s sexual history with
individuals other than the perpetrator is not generally relevant. (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 835.) In Barrenda L. v. Superior
Court (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 794, 797, two dependent minors brought suit on
the basis that they had been raped and assaulted by their foster mother’s son.
(Id. at p. 797.) The Defendants requested discovery into the nature of a
plaintiff’s past pregnancy, whether the pregnancy was consensual, and whether a
plaintiff had been sexually assaulted in any other instances. (Id. at
pp. 798-799.) The defendants also sought a mental evaluation and refused to stipulate
that it would not inquire into the plaintiffs’ sexual history. (Ibid.)
The court explained that “[t]he mere fact that a plaintiff has initiated an
action seeking damages for extreme mental and emotional distress arising out of
conduct of a sexual nature does not ipso facto provide ‘good cause’ for
discovery of other sexual conduct.” (Id. at p. 801, citing Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 841-842.) The Court denied the motion for a
mental examination because “no declaration of a mental health professional was
proffered to establish the relevance of other sexual conduct, whether before
the incidents alleged or after.” (Id at p. 803.)
 
In responding to the subpoenas, the responding entities
shall redact all information pertaining to Plaintiff’s sexual history with any
individuals other than Yanez.
 
Privilege Log
 
Plaintiff requests an in camera review of the documents to
be produced. In the alternative, Plaintiff requests that records from the
subpoenas first be sent to Plaintiff for review, whereupon Plaintiff will
redact the documents for private information and provide a privilege log. Due
to the potential volume of the records, the Court deems the second request to
be an appropriate means of managing the privacy concerns. If LAUSD disputes any
items in the privilege log, it may move to compel production.