 Case Number:  23PSCV01314    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Fernando  Castillo v. T-Mobile US, Inc.  Defendant  T-Mobile USA, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff Fernando Castillo’s Prayer for  Punitive Damages  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer  for punitive damages with 20 days leave to amend.                 Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a products liability action. On May 1, 2023, plaintiff Fernando  Castillo (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant T-Mobile USA, Inc.  (erroneously sued as T-Mobile US, Inc.) (Defendant) and Does 1 to 20, alleging  causes of action for negligent products liability, strict products liability,  breach of warranty, and negligence (general).  On February 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike  Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD              “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this  time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any  pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed  in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer              Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a)(1), Defendant was required to meet and confer  telephonically or in person with Plaintiff before bringing this motion to  strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(1).) The Court finds Defendant’s  meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Robinson Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Analysis                      “In an action for the breach of an obligation not  arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that  the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,  in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example  and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)              Defendant seeks to strike  Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages in the complaint on the grounds that:  (1) Plaintiff’s complaint does allege any facts indicating fraud, malice, or  oppression by Defendant; and (2) Plaintiff fails to allege that the wrongful  act giving rise to punitive damages was committed by an officer, director, or  managing agent of Defendant. The Court will address each of these arguments in  turn.              Insufficient Facts Alleged  “While punitive damages may be recovered in a  products liability case [citation] and in a negligence action [citation], in  order to justify an award of punitive damages on the basis of a conscious  disregard of the safety of others, the plaintiff must establish that the  defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of its conduct and  that it wilfully [sic] and deliberately failed to avoid those  consequences. [Citation.]” (Hilliard v. A. H. Robins Co.  (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 395, italics in original.)  Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s complaint is  devoid of any factual allegations of intentional conduct by Defendant or  allegations showing oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant contends the  complaint does not allege that Defendant acted to suppress any knowledge  regarding the unsafe nature of the cellular device at issue, and that there are  no allegations this type of failure has occurred in any other devices from  Defendant or that they caused injury to other customers.  The Court agrees that the complaint fails to allege sufficient  facts demonstrating fraud, oppression, or malice. The extent of any wrongful  conduct on Defendant’s part is the allegation that Defendant issued a recall of  the cellular device at issue in approximately 2017, which predates Plaintiff’s  alleged injuries by approximately four years. (See Compl., ¶¶ 11, 13.) While  these allegations demonstrate that Defendant was ostensibly aware of the  dangerous nature of these devices before Plaintiff’s injury, they also  demonstrate that Defendant undertook some effort to take them off the market by  issuing a recall. (See Id.) The Court does not find these allegations  demonstrate a deliberate failure to prevent the dangerous consequences of the  cellular device at issue. (Hilliard, supra, 148 Cal.App.3d at p. 395.)  The Court otherwise finds the complaint lacks any allegations evidencing fraud,  oppression, or malice, and therefore does not support a claim for punitive  damages. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (191  Cal.App.4th 53, 64 [claim for punitive damages subject to motion to strike  where allegations do not rise to the level of fraud, oppression, or malice  necessary under Civil Code section 3294.])  Additionally,  the Court construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit  admission that Defendant’s argument is correct here. (Holden v. City of San  Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting  the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to  strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages with leave to amend.              No Allegations of Acts Committed  by Officer, Director, or Managing Agent  An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant  to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the  employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed  him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or  authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded  or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a  corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,  authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on  the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.  (b).)              Defendant further argues that the  complaint contains no allegations showing that an officer, director, or  managing agent of Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud to support  a claim for punitive damages, citing White  v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21  Cal.App.4th 563. The Court finds this argument to be incorrect and unpersuasive.  Civil Code section 3294,  subdivision (b), limits liability of corporate employers for the acts of their  employees. (See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b);  White, supra, 21 Cal.App.4th at p. 573 [“The drafters' goals were to  avoid imposing punitive damages on employers who were merely negligent or  reckless and to distinguish ordinary respondeat superior liability from  corporate liability for punitive damages.”]) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), is irrelevant here because  Plaintiff is not alleging liability against Defendant for actions undertaken by  an employee or employees of Defendant. (See generally, Compl.)  Accordingly, the Court  DENIES the motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on these  grounds.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer  for punitive damages with 20 days leave to amend.                Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.