  Case Number:  22TRCV01173    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
PHILLIP
  ROBERT SARABIA, JR., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01173




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ERNIE
  JOHNSON, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         February 29, 2024                   
 
Moving
Party:                         Defendants Ernie Johnson and CPP Group Holdings, LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff
Phillip Sarabia
Motion for Leave to
File Cross-Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.  The court had granted
defendants’ ex parte application shortening time.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to file a
cross-complaint within five days.  The
FSC and trial date are vacated.  The
court sets an OSC re _____ for ________.
BACKGROUND
On November 7, 2022, plaintiff
Phillip Robert Sarabia, Jr. filed a complaint against Ernie Johnson, CPP Group
Holdings, LLC, and Jenetta Fisher for motor vehicle negligence and negligence
based on a motor vehicle accident on September 17, 2021 on the 405 freeway,
south of La Tijera Blvd. 
Trial is set for March 13, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §426.30(a) provides, “if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” 
CCP §426.50 states that, “A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave. . . to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.  This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”
CCP §428.10 states that, “A party
against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: . . . (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
CCP § 428.50 states, “(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) 
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has
set a date for trial.
(c) 
A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except
one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.”
“If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive . . ., leave of court may be granted ‘in the interest of justice’ at
any time during the course of the action (CCP §428.50(c)).  On the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint
is compulsory . . ., leave must be
granted so long as defendant is acting in good faith (CCP §426.50 . . .).”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶6:555.
“The declarations of defendant’s
counsel should show that it would be ‘in the interest of justice’ to grant
leave to file; and some reasonable excuse why the cross-complaint was not filed
earlier (mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect . . . or most commonly,
recent discovery of new facts).”  Id.,
¶6:562.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Ernie Johnson and CPP Group Holdings, LLC request leave to file a
cross-complaint against Hannah Elise Wilen. 
            Defendants
contend that on February 12, 2023, plaintiff served a supplemental response to
a form interrogatory, that he sustained injuries after the subject accident to
the same parts of his body that he claims were injured in this action.  Defendants assert that plaintiff revealed
that he was in an automobile accident with Hannah Elise Wilen on August 8,
2023, resulting in neck and back pain and that as a result he treated with an
orthopedic surgeon and received physical therapy.  Defendants contend that plaintiff’s counsel
had informed defense counsel on February 19, 2024 that plaintiff is claiming
that his neck and back were “reinjured” after the accident with Wilen, and that
he was not willing to waive any claim in the present action for pain and
suffering to his neck and back after August 8, 2023.  As such, defendants argue, plaintiff is
claiming that defendants and Wilen are joint tortfeasors with regard to any
injury to plaintiff’s back and neck after August 8, 2023.  Defendants also argue that “the only one
manner to sort out the defendants’ proportional liability is via principles of
equitable indemnity.  That can only be
achieved by allowing the defendants to be joined in the same action.”  Defendants further assert that the motion was
brought in good faith and that “[a]ny delay was caused by the fact that
plaintiff did not bring the subsequent accident to the attention of defendants
until a month before the scheduled trial date.” 

            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendants knew or should have known about
plaintiff’s subsequent car accident prior to plaintiff’s supplemental discovery
responses because plaintiff was examined by defendants’ retained expert Dr.
Richard Kahmann on October 10, 2023, and that during the examination, plaintiff
informed Dr. Kahmann that he had been involved in a subsequent motor vehicle
accident that had exacerbated the same or similar injuries plaintiff sustained
in the subject accident.  Plaintiff also
asserts that Dr. Kahmann noted in his November 10, 2023 IME report that
“plaintiff admits to one subsequent MVA which he admits exacerbated his neck
condition but had no effect on his lower back condition” and that the report
was provided to defense counsel. 
Plaintiff argues that the delay in bringing the motion caused him
prejudice because he has been planning on the current trial date for months and
“will incur unjustified expenses in litigation relating to the cross-complaint,
re-deposing experts based on their receipt of new information.”  Plaintiff further argues that his subsequent
car accident does not fall in the same transaction or occurrence as the subject
car accident and that the two collisions are wholly independent of each other.
The court rules as follows:  “[A] defendant may generally file a
cross-complaint against any person from whom he seeks equitable indemnity.”  Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real
Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 1439, 144 (citation omitted).  “Rules permitting a joint tortfeasor to
cross-complain against another joint tortfeasor for equitable indemnity
'promote the public policy considerations underlying multiparty tort
litigation:  the maximization of recovery
to the injured party; settlement of the injured party's claim; and equitable
apportionment of liability among concurrent tortfeasors.'  Courts have 'consistently adopted procedures'
promoting these policies and 'have rejected procedures which would undermine
these policies.'"  Id. at
1449 (citation omitted).
“The [equitable indemnity] doctrine
applies only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to the
plaintiff.”  BFGC Architects Planners,
Inc. v. Forcum/Mackery Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 848,
852.  “A condition of equitable indemnity
is that 'there must be some basis for tort liability against the proposed
indemnitor,' usually involving breach of a duty owed to the underlying
plaintiff.”  Stonegate Homeowners
Ass'n v. Staben (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 740, 751 (citation omitted).  “The term 'joint tortfeasor' as used in the
comparative equitable indemnity context does not mean the defendants were
'joined' as tortfeasors by the plaintiff; it is a broad term which includes
joint, concurrent and successive tortfeasors.” 
GEM Developers v. Hallcraft Homes of San Diego, Inc. (1989) 213
Cal. App. 3d 419, 431 (citation omitted). 
“[J]oinder by the plaintiff is not a prerequisite to a defendant’s right
to equitable indemnification.”  Id.  “The doctrine of comparative equitable
indemnity is available to apportion liability among wrongdoers based on their
relative culpability provided only that the actions of the parties combined to
create an indivisible injury to the plaintiff.” 
Willdan v. Sialic Contractors Corp. (2007) 158 Cal. App. 4th 47,
55.
            Plaintiff describes in his
opposition that the complaint arises from a collision wherein defendant Johnson
collided into the rear end of Jenetta Fisher’s vehicle at a high rate of speed,
causing Fisher’s vehicle to subsequently collide with the rear of plaintiff’s
vehicle and that plaintiff’s subsequent motor vehicle accident occurred in
August 2023 when Hannah Elise Willen collided into the rear of plaintiff’s
vehicle.  He acknowledges that the August
2023 accident may have exacerbated injuries he sustained in the September 2021
accident.  Thus, it appears that for the
purpose of a claim for equitable indemnity, the damages are indivisible after
the second accident.  Further, defendants’
proposed cause of action for equitable indemnity arises from the motor vehicle
cause of action against it.
The court finds that it would be in
the interest of justice to allow defendants to file a cross-complaint. 
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.