 Case Number:  24NNCV00999    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROGUE CREDIT UNION, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ELIZABETH
   TELFAIR RIVAS,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00999
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   5, 2024



 
On April 16, 2024, plaintiff Rogue
Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Elizabeth
Telfair Rivas (“Defendant”) arising from a loan. On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff
served Request for Admissions and Genuineness of Documents (Set One) on
Defendant. Defendant did not respond and Plaintiff proceeded to file this
motion on August 28, 2024. 
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
Defendant did not oppose this motion
and it is undisputed that responses were not timely served. It also does not
appear that Defendant has served substantially compliant responses before the
hearing. Therefore, the motion to deem admitted is GRANTED. 
Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).) Here, Plaintiff did not include a request for monetary sanctions in
its notice of motion or memorandum of points and authorities. Accordingly, no
sanctions shall be imposed. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 5th
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 