  Case Number:  22STCV13792    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROSEVIANNEY C. OGUMSI
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
  DALE GENTILE, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV3792
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   5, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Rosevianney C. Ogumsi filed
this action against defendant Richard Dale Gentile, D.D.S. (“Defendant”) on April
26, 2022. On September 16, 2024, the Court entered judgment in favor of
Defendant following his motion for summary judgment. On October 7, 2024,
Defendant filed a memorandum of costs and served it on Plaintiff via mail. 
On
October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to tax costs. Plaintiff moves to
strike: (a) $3,060 in expert fees, (b) $1,662 for “records subpoena service”,
(c) $1,566 for attorney services, and (d) $150 for jury fees. 
Defendants
filed an opposition brief on November 18, 2024. 
No
reply brief is on file with the Court. 

II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032 (all
statutory references to follow are to the Code of Civil Procedure except when
otherwise indicated) provides for recovery of costs by a prevailing party. Allowable
costs under Section 1033.5 must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation, rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and
must be reasonable in amount.¿An item not specifically allowable under Section 1033.5(a)
nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the
discretion of the court if they meet the above requirements (i.e., reasonably
necessary and reasonable in amount).¿If the items appearing in a cost bill
appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to
show that they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
761, 773-774.)¿On
the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.¿(Ibid.)
Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a
question of fact for the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of
discretion.¿(Ibid.)¿However, because the right to costs is
governed strictly by statute, a court has no discretion to award costs not
statutorily authorized.¿(Id.)¿Discretion is abused only when, in its
exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of
the circumstances being considered.”¿(Ibid.) In ruling upon a motion to tax costs,
the trial court’s first determination is whether the statute expressly allows
the particular item and whether it appears proper on its face, if so, the
burden is on the objecting party to show the costs to be unnecessary and
unreasonable. Where costs are not expressly allowed by statute, the burden is
on the party claiming the costs to show that the charges were reasonable and
necessary.
III.       
DISCUSSION 
Expert Witness Fees
Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s
claimed cost of $3,060 for the expert witness fees of Barry Vilkin, D.M.D. (“Dr.
Vilkin.”) Expert witness fees are allowed as costs if they are ordered by the
Court or authorized by some other statute, such as Code of Civil Procedure
section 998. Otherwise, they are prohibited as costs. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (a)(8), (b)(1).) 
There is no indication from the record
that Dr. Vilkin was an expert ordered by the Court or that an offer to
compromise pursuant to section 998 was made, nor does Defendant assert that a
998 offer was made (or that any other statute authorizes the recovery of expert
witness fees). Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to strike the
expense of $3,060 for expert witness fees. 
 
 
“Records Subpoena Service” and
“Attorney Service” 
          Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendant’s claimed costs of $1,662.36 and $1,566.31 for
“Records Subpoena Service” and “Attorney Service”, respectively. Plaintiff
argues that these two items were not reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation or helpful to the trier of fact. (Motion, pp. 4-5.) In opposition, Defendant
argues that the subpoenas were necessary for obtaining necessary discovery and attaches
copies of the receipts issued for preparing and serving multiple subpoenas on
Plaintiff’s medical providers for her medical records. The cost to serve
subpoenas is recoverable as costs pursuant to section 1033.5 (a)(4). And, even
if they were not expressly identified as recoverable, the cost to issue and
serve these subpoenas appear to be reasonable in amount and necessary to the
litigation because Plaintiff’s medical records were eventually used in
preparation for Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. (Opp., p. 4.) Therefore,
the motion to tax the costs for the subpoenas is DENIED. 
As for the attorney service fees, Defendant
argues that they are allowable under the Court’s discretion pursuant to section
1033.5(c) because they were necessary for electronically filing documents with
the Court. (Opp., p. 4.) Also, since Los Angeles County Superior Court requires
electronic filing, the fees for the electronic filing or service of documents
through an electronic filing service provider are allowable as costs. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5(a)(14).) Defendant attaches receipts of the attorney service
charges for each filing as well as the receipts for the cost of each
electronically filed document. Plaintiff does not dispute the necessity of the
filings or the cost charged by the attorney service. Accordingly, the motion to
tax the attorney service fees is DENIED. 
Jury Fees
Jury fees are expressly recoverable by
statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(1).) Although Plaintiff cites to
section 631 as authority for the proposition that jury fees are not recoverable
if the case does not proceed to trial, the statute does not state anything to
support that position. Therefore, the motion to tax jury fees is DENIED.  
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is GRANTED
in part. The amount taxed from Defendant’s memorandum of costs is $3,306,
leaving $5,705.32 as recoverable costs. 
Dated
this 5th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 