 Case Number:  23STCV14971    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 25, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Steve K. Lopez v. Mai Thai
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV14971
 





















 
MOTION
FOR INTERLOCUTORY JUDGMENT OF PARTITION AND APPOINTMENT OF REFEREE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Steve K. Lopez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Default/with an opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
On June 27, 2022, Plaintiff, Steve K. Lopez, filed a
verified complaint against Defendant, Mai Thai, for partition by sale of real
property located at 1114, 1114 ½, and 1116 S. Kern Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90022
(the “Subject Property”).
 
On September 6, 2023, default was entered against
Defendant.  
 
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for
interlocutory judgment of partition and for appointment of a referee.  
 
This motion was heard on December 22, 2023.  Defendant did not file written
opposition.  The court issued a tentative
order granting Plaintiff’s motion.  At
the hearing, Defendant appeared and represented to the court that she would seek
counsel to appear in this action.  The
court continued the motion to allow Defendant time to obtain counsel and to
oppose the motion.
 
On January 17, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to this
motion as a self-represented litigant.  However,
Defendant is still in default.  Defendant
must set aside the default by stipulation or noticed motion to appear in this
action.  Defendant has not accomplished
either.  The court cannot consider the
opposition.  Further, Defendant has not
obtained counsel, which was the primary basis for the continuance.  While the court cannot and does not consider
Defendant’s opposition, the court is cognizant of Defendant’s status as a
self-represented litigant and her potential confusion regarding the need to set
aside the default before proceeding.  Given
that a primary tenet of California jurisprudence is to reach the merits, the
court will afford Defendant time to file a motion to set aside the default so
that she may be heard with respect to the motion, which she clearly wants to
oppose.  The court will set a briefing schedule
on the motion to set aside the default.[1]  Defendant shall once again use this time to investigate
retaining counsel.   
 
 
III.         CONCLUSION
 
            The court
will set a hearing date on the motion to set aside the default and will
continue the motion for interlocutory judgment of partition to a date
thereafter.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice.  
 
Dated:   January 25,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


