 Case Number:  23STCV01665    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
25, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  September 30, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Linda McAfee v. Cedars Sinai Health Ventures
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV01665
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Linda McAfee
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a negligence and elder abuse action.  Plaintiff, Linda McAfee, alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is 70 years old and has been receiving medical
care from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (“Cedars Sinai”) from July 2021 to
present.  On June 16, 2022, Plaintiff was
admitted to Cedars Sinai for in-patient neck surgery.  She was transported on the Cedars Sinai
campus from a personal vehicle to her patient room while seated in her personal
transport chair.  The chair did not have
footrests.  Plaintiff underwent neck
surgery.  
 
            On June 21,
2022, Plaintiff was discharged from Cedars Sinai.  She was still under the effect of prescribed
pain medications which affected her motor functions and left her mind in a “haze.”  Plaintiff’s husband arrived at the hospital
to take Plaintiff directly to a rehabilitation facility.  Nurse Arlene Datu placed Plaintiff in
Plaintiff’s personal transport chair and summoned a Cedars Sinai transporter to
take Plaintiff to her husband’s vehicle. Ereck Coleman arrived to transport
Plaintiff with a Cedars Sinai “STAXI” transport chair that transporters use to
move patients on the campus.  The STAXI
chair has footrests.  Mr. Coleman insisted
that Plaintiff use the STAXI transport chair. 
However, Ms. Datu overruled Mr. Coleman and directed him to push
Plaintiff in Plaintiff’s personal chair. 
During the transport, Mr. Coleman and Plaintiff arrived at a ramp.  At the ramp, Mr. Coleman rammed Plaintiff and
her left foot into the incline of the ramp. 
Plaintiff’s left foot was pushed back and trapped underneath the
transport chair.  Plaintiff cried out in
pain.  Mr. Coleman looked down to see why
Plaintiff was crying out in pain and saw that Plaintiff’s left foot was trapped
underneath the transport chair.  Mr.
Coleman immediately turned the transport chair, with the Plaintiff’s left foot still
trapped under the chair, and began dragging the transport chair up the handicap
transport ramp.  Plaintiff’s left foot was
twisted, trapped, and dragged for approximately ten feet before her foot
dislodged from underneath the chair.  X-rays
later reveal that Plaintiff suffered a fractured leg.
 
            This action
was initiated on January 25, 2023. 
Plaintiff later filed an amendment to the complaint naming Defendant,
Cedars Sinai, as Doe 1.  On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for
Negligence and Elder Abuse.  The FAC
seeks attorney’s fees and costs in connection with the elder abuse claim.
 
            On August
25, 2023, Defendant filed this Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action for Elder
Abuse and a Motion to Strike the request for attorney’s fees and costs.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect
to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general
or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v.
Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.  Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Declaration of Pamela Hayati, ¶¶ 3, 4.)
 
B.  Analysis  
 
To plead a cause
of action for elder abuse under the Elder Abuse Act based on neglect, a
plaintiff must allege facts establishing that: (1) the defendant had a
substantial caretaking or custodial relationship with plaintiff, involving
ongoing responsibility for her basic needs, which an able-bodied and fully
competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance, (2)
that plaintiff was 65 years of age or older or a dependent adult while she was
in defendant’s care or custody, (3) that the employer defendant’s employee
failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the same situation
would have used in providing for plaintiff’s basic needs, including protecting
plaintiff from health and safety hazards, (4) that plaintiff was harmed, and
(5) that the employer defendant’s employee’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No.
3103; see also Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 405-407.)  A cause of
action under the Elder Abuse Act must be alleged with
particularity.  (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790 (Covenant Care).)  
 
Defendant demurrers
because the FAC does not plead particular facts amounting to a conscious or
willful act of egregious neglect. 
However, Defendant conflates the elements of an elder abuse claim for
neglect with the pleading requirement for obtaining heightened remedies, such
as attorney’s fees and costs (see discussion below re: motion to strike.)   
 
The issue here is whether
a claim for elder abuse is sufficiently pled. 
The FAC alleges facts as to each element.  
 
The first element
is whether defendant had a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship
with plaintiff.  (CACI No. 3103.)  In Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group (2016)
63 Cal.4th 148, the California Supreme Court explored what sort of conduct is
covered for individuals having the care or custody of an elder or dependent
adult. “What [the Legislature] seem[s] to contemplate is the existence of a
robust caretaking or custodial relationship – that is, a relationship where a
party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one
or more of an elder’s [or dependent adult’s] basic needs that an able bodied
and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without
assistance.” (Id. at 158.)  Here,
the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was admitted for in-patient neck surgery from
June 16, 2022 to June 21, 2022. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 12.)  During this
time, “Cedars Sinai has a substantial caretaking and custodial relationship
with Plaintiff” and “provides basic needs to Plaintiff, ... including bathing
Plaintiff, putting on clothes, and transporting Plaintiff due to her difficulty
walking post-surgery.”  (Complaint, ¶
70.)  Defendant contends, in reply, that
the FAC does not allege “a robust caretaking or custodial relationship.”  For this proposition, Defendant relies on Winn.  However, “[i]t must be determined, on a
case-by-case basis, whether the specific responsibilities assumed by a
defendant were sufficient to give rise to a substantial caretaking or custodial
relationship.”  (Oroville Hospital v.
Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 382, 405.) In Winn, the High
Court found that plaintiffs did not explain why defendants’ intermittent,
outpatient medical treatment forged a caretaking or custodial relationship.  (Winn, supra, 63 Cal.4th at p. 165.)  By contrast, Plaintiff, here, received in-patient
treatment.  Plaintiff also alleges several
basic needs that Defendant provided to Plaintiff during that that treatment
period, including “transporting Plaintiff due to her difficulty walking
post-surgery.”  The first element is
sufficiently pled.
 
The second element
concerns Plaintiff’s age and whether she was at least 65 years of age at the
time she was in Defendant’s care.  (CACI
No. 3103.) Here, the FAC alleges she was 70 years old at the time of incident.  (Complaint, ¶ 69.) The second element is
sufficiently pled.
 
The third element concerns
whether the defendant employer’s employee used reasonable care.  (CACI No. 3103.)  Here, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff’s motor
functions were impaired by pain medication following neck surgery and put her
in a “haze.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 71.)  Plaintiff was also in a neck brace which
prevented Plaintiff from seeing her feet while seated. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)  Despite Plaintiff’s physical state, Ms. Datu
overruled Mr. Coleman and directed him to transport Plaintiff in her personal
transport chair rather than the STAXI chair. 
Unlike Plaintiff’s personal chair, the STAXI chair has footrests.  (Complaint, ¶ 19.)  While transporting Plaintiff, Mr. Coleman rammed
her foot into a ramp and, despite seeing that her foot was trapped under the
chair, continued to drag the chair up the ramp approximately 10 feet.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 29, 30.)  These allegations sufficiently show a lack of
care on the part of Defendant’s employees. 
Ms. Datu withheld the use of the STAXI chair, which would have supported
Plaintiff’s feet and prevented any limb from getting caught underneath the
chair during the transport.  Mr. Coleman
continued to push the chair despite seeing that Plaintiff’s foot was caught
underneath the chair. The third element is sufficiently pled.
 
The fourth element
is harm to plaintiff and the fifth element is causation.  (CACI No. 3103.)  Here, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff cried
out in pain when her left foot was caught underneath the chair.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 28, 32, 83.)  This event took place on June 22, 2022.  The FAC also alleges that after complaining
for about a year of pain in her leg, on June 28, 2023, Plaintiff was diagnosed
with a fracture to her left leg and underwent surgery on the leg two days
later.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 48, 49.)  The parties do not dispute that the FAC
adequately alleges the element of harm to Plaintiff.  As to the fifth element, these allegations,
liberally construed, established that Mr. Coleman caused Plaintiff’s injury to
her left leg during the transport.  The
FAC states a cause of action for elder abuse.
 
C.  Motion to Strike 
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)¿ The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)¿ The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿ For the purposes of a motion to
strike, the term “pleading” means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or
cross-complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.)¿¿ 
 
Defendant moves
for an order striking the request for attorney’s fee and costs from the
FAC.  The attorney’s fees and costs are
tied to the elder abuse claim.
 
The Elder Abuse
Act provides for enhanced remedies such as attorney’s fees and costs when a
plaintiff demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is
guilty of something more than negligence, such recklessness, oppression, fraud,
or malicious conduct. “In order to obtain the remedies available in [Welfare
and Institutions Code] section 15657, a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence;
he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The
latter three categories involve “intentional,” “willful,” or “conscious”
wrongdoing of a “despicable” or “injurious” nature.” (Delaney v. Baker
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.)  
 
When an elder
abuse claim is alleged against an employer defendant only, California Civil
Jury Instruction No. 3102B sets forth the elements for the employer’s
liability.  It states “Plaintiff must prove
by clear and convincing evidence that (1) the subject employee was an officer,
director, or managing agent, or (2) an officer, director, or managing agent had
advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee who committed the acts and
employed her with a knowing disregard of the rights or safety of others, or (3)
an officer, director, or managing agent authorized the conduct of the employee
who committed the acts, or (4) that an officer, a director, or a managing agent
knew of the wrongful conduct of the employee who committed the acts and adopted
or approved the conduct after it occurred.”  (CACI No. 3102B.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
seeks enhanced remedies against an employer defendant.  As such, the FAC must allege facts that
satisfy each element for employer liability as set forth in California Civil
Jury Instruction No. 3102B.  However, the
FAC is devoid of any allegations showing either that Ms. Datu or Mr. Coleman
was an officer, director, or managing agent, or that an officer, director, or
managing agent had advance knowledge of Ms. Datu’s or Mr. Coleman’s unfitness.  Nor are there any allegations showing that an
officer, director, or managing agent authorized or knew of Ms. Datu’s or Mr.
Coleman’s alleged conduct.  The FAC does
not advance allegations sufficient to sustain the request for attorney’s fees
and costs.
 
 IV.
      CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED.  Leave to amend is DENIED without prejudice.  If Plaintiff discovers information supporting
the request for attorney’s fees and costs, Plaintiff may seek leave to amend
the complaint at that time. 
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve its responsive
pleading within 10 days of this order. 
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   January 25,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            