  Case Number:  19STCV37977    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  T 19STCV37977 MAGDALENA  FATIMA SALINAS, et al. vs TRANSIT SYSTEMS [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  :   Defendant and Cross-Defendant US Bus Charter & Limo Inc.’s Motion  for Leave to File the Cross-Complaints is GRANTED and shall be filed within 10  days. Defendant and Cross-Defendant US  Bus Charter & Limo Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as  to any hearsay or facts in dispute.Cross-Defendant
US Bus Charter Limo objections overruled

Defendant
Church’s objections are sustained. Introduction  Defendant and Cross-Defendant US  Bus Charter & Limo Inc. (Coachways) moved for leave to file  Cross-Complaints in three actions (Mejia v. Transit Systems Unltd., Inc. - Case  No. 20STCV41653; Urciel v. Transit Systems Unltd., Inc. - Case No. 20STCV39458;  and Lemus v. Rodriguez - Case No. 19STCV44511) against Cross-Defendants The  Universal Church, Inc. and also sought to add non-party Acrisure of California  LLC dba TIB Transportation Insurance Brokers (TIB).  The proposed Cross-Complaints allege claims  for equitable indemnity against TIB, contribution against TIB, and declaratory  relief against Church and TIB.  Coachways  submitted the proposed Cross-Complaints as attachments to Dharmi Mehta’s  declaration, as Exhibits A-C. Church and TIB filed their own  oppositions to the motion.   Defendants/Cross-Defendants Transit Systems Unlimited, Inc. (TSUI) and  Ofelia Sandoval Rodriguez (Rodriguez) (collectively, Transit Systems) requested  joinder to the opposition of TIB and also submitted their own opposition  arguments to the motion.   Coachways filed their reply to  the oppositions and joinder. Procedure  TIB requested that the Court  consider their opposition to the motion.   However, TIB failed to present any legal authority to support the  request.  TIB did not cite any legal authority  allowing them, an outsider to the litigation, to appear before the Court on  this matter.   Without legal authority to  allow them to be heard, the Court did not consider TIB’s opposition briefs and  will not allow TIB to make argument at this hearing.   Because the Court did not  consider TIB’s opposition, Transit Systems request for joinder to the TIB  opposition is DENIED.  The Court did,  however, consider Transit Systems’ opposition arguments.   Discussion  Coachways moved to file the  cross-complaints against TIB under Code of Civil Procedure sections 379(a)  [permissive joinder of a non-party] or 389(a)(1) [compulsory joinder of a  non-party].  Coachways asserted that the  claims in the proposed cross-complaints against the Church are related to the  subject matter of the complaint and/or arises out of plaintiff’s claimed series  of transactions/occurrences and requested in good faith.  If the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory  (i.e., related to the subject matter of the complaint or arises out of the  plaintiff’s claimed transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences), a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint can be made at “any  time during the course of the action” and must be granted so long as defendant  acted in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 426.50; 428.10(b); 428.20; 428.50(c); Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank  (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 (Silver Organizations).)  Preliminarily, it is noted that cross-claims  against third parties are usually permissive and not mandatory.  The proposed cross-complaints against TIB  allege that TIB failed to properly add Church as an “additional insured” to  Coachways insurance despite Coachways’ request to do so.  Based upon these claims, Coachways alleged  that the harm for which they are being sued is attributable, at least in part,  to the cross-defendants.  (American  Motorcycle Association v. Superior Court   (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578, 607.)   Because Coachways’ new claims refer to the same controversy in the  underlying complaints and cross-complaints, Coachways sufficiently showed  grounds to allow the motion.  Coachways  also argued that the motion is brought in good faith because Coachways  discovered TIB’s failure in naming Church as an “additional insured” at a  January 19, 2023 deposition of Church’s person most knowledgeable, David  Augusto.  (Beverly Bickel Decl. par. 5,  Exh. R. The Court noted that it took Coachways almost a full year after  discovery of the fact to file this motion.   However, a delay in bringing the motion is insufficient to show bad  faith because delay alone does not show fraud, deceit, some sinister motive, or  dishonest purpose.  Coachways’ motion  presented good cause to allow the filing of the proposed cross-complaints. Church argued that allowing the  new claim of declaratory relief against them would be prejudicial because the  claims are allegedly not based upon facts or existing law.  However, Church failed to present legal  authority to show that the Court must consider the merits of the claims that  support the motion.  Defenses to the  merits of the claims are better reviewed by other motions.  Further, it is noted that the cases cited by  Church to support their contention (Solit v. Takai Bank (l 999) 68 Cal.App.4th  1435, 1448 and M&F Fishing, Inc. v. Sea-Pac Ins. Managers, Inc., (2012) 202  18 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1534) are inapplicable because they involved motion for  leave to amend a pleading.  The instant  motion does not seek to amend  a pleading  but to file a pleading.  Even if the  Court were to consider Church’s argument, it is noted that an amendment adding  legal theories damaging to the opposing party on the merits, is not a type of  cognizable prejudice in support of denying leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118  Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Church’s arguments  in opposition of the motion are not persuasive. Transit Systems’ opposition  argued that the motion should be denied because it would impermissibly disclose  to the finder of fact that liability insurance may cover all or some of the  damages claimed by plaintiffs.  However,  as asserted by Coachways, the potential disclosure can be remedied by  bifurcation/severance of the claims alleged in the proposed  cross-complaints.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 1048(b).)  Transit Systems’ argument  is not persuasive. The motion for leave to file the  cross-complaints is GRANTED.   IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.