  Case Number:  20STCV44298    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  9 Final Approval of Class Action Settlement
Department SSC-9
Hon. Elaine Lu
 
Ana Hernandez de Bahena vs Le Pafe, Inc.
Case
No.: 20STCV44298
Hearing: April 9,
2024
 
All parties in this action were notified on
March 21, 2024 via Case Anywhere that effective April 2, 2024, and until
further notice, Judge Elaine Lu will be temporarily assigned to Department 9 at
312 N. Spring Street, Los Angeles, California 90012, Spring Street
Courthouse.  
 
On April 4, 2024, the Court again notified all
parties in this action by way of Case Anywhere that until further notice, Judge
Elaine Lu has been assigned to Department 9, including the instant action.  The Court required all parties to respond
either (a) by indicating acceptance of Judge Elaine Lu to preside over this
action during her temporary assignment to Department 9, or (b) by filing a
peremptory challenge under Code of Civil Procedure section 170.6 (if one was
still available to that party).
 
Having been so advised, all parties in this
action have indicated via Case Anywhere that they accept the assignment of
Judge Elaine Lu to preside over the case during her temporary assignment to
Department 9.
 
As the parties have indicated their acceptance
of the judicial assignment, the Court hereby posts the following tentative
ruling for the April 9, 2024 hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for final approval:
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Counsel must address the following before the
Court can grant final approval:
 
·       Counsel should provide an updated
declaration from the named Plaintiff. In connection
with the final fairness hearing, named Plaintiffs must submit declarations
attesting to why they should be entitled to an enhancement award in the
proposed amount.  The named Plaintiffs
must explain why they “should be compensated for the expense or risk he has
incurred in conferring a benefit on other members of the class.”  (Clark v. American Residential Services LLC
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 785, 806.)  Trial
courts should not sanction enhancement awards of thousands of dollars with
“nothing more than pro forma claims as to ‘countless’ hours expended,
‘potential stigma’ and ‘potential risk.’ Significantly more specificity, in the
form of quantification of time and effort expended on the litigation, and in
the form of reasoned explanation of financial or other risks incurred by the
named plaintiffs, is required in order for the trial court to conclude that an
enhancement was ‘necessary to induce [the named plaintiff] to participate in
the suit . . . .’”  (Id. at 806-807, italics and ellipsis in original.) Plaintiff De Bahena’s
declaration in support of preliminary approval does not provide any information
or evidence of services provided by Plaintiff. Counsel’s moving papers cite
work performed by the Plaintiff and estimated 40 hours of time spent on the
case.  (See Moon Decl., ISO Final, ¶31.).  However this information should be provided
in the form of a detailed declaration by Plaintiff herself. 
 

Counsel should explain why there are almost 200 fewer Aggrieved
     Employees than anticipated.  At preliminary approval Counsel estimated
     that there would be 293 PAGA Aggrieved Employees. (Gunther Decl. ISO
     Prelim, ¶4.) At final approval, the administrator declares that there are
     95 Aggrieved Employees. (Polites Decl., ¶19.) 

 

Regarding
     costs, Counsel should clarify what is meant by “Admin Fee” for $750. (Moon Decl. ISO
     Final, Exhibit 4, p. 3.)

 
 
Upon Counsel curing the above defects, the Court
is inclined to grant final approval.  
 
If before 11 am on April 8, 2024 Plaintiff’s
counsel files and serves supplemental evidence correcting the defects above, the
Court will review the supplemental materials before the April 9, 2024
hearing.  Otherwise, Plaintiff’s Counsel
may indicate via Case Anywhere how much time Counsel needs to file the
supplemental evidence, and the Court will continue the hearing accordingly.
 