 Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, and Desiree Thomas’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff Gergis R. Ghobrial’s Independent Mental Examination is GRANTED. The exam is set to begin at 9
a.m. or 11 a.m., depending on the time chosen by Plaintiff at the hearing on
this motion. The parties are directed to meet and confer concerning Plaintiff’s
hand neuropathy and accommodations for the same. No sanctions are awarded.
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
CONDUCT MENTAL EXAMINATION
 
“If any party desires to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) “A motion for
an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.” (Id. subd.
(b).) 
“The court shall grant a motion
for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) Section 2032.320 subdivision
(b) requires a motion for an IME to specific “the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310 subd. (b).) Moreover, an order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2032.320, subd. (d).)
The California Supreme Court
has held that a prior, but substantially similar, statute allowing for IMEs
“defines a showing of ‘good cause’ as requiring that the party produce specific
facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject
matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.)
Defendants Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Memorial Health Services, and Desiree Thomas (Defendants) move
to compel the independent mental examination (IME) of Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial
(Plaintiff), to be conducted by Ellen G. Stein, Ph.D. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has placed his mental condition at issue through his claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress and claiming of damages for emotional
distress and other mental damages, as stated in Plaintiff’s discovery
responses. (Motion Exh. 5.) Defendant presents the declaration of Dr. Stein,
who testifies to her qualifications and the range of tests she expects to
conduct. (Stein Decl. ¶¶ 3–6.) The examination is to take place over two
half-days, with the first involving written testing, and the second involving
an interview. (Stein Decl. ¶¶ 7–10.) The dates specified for the examination
are February 5 and 8, 2024, at 9 a.m., at an unspecified location. Defendant
proposes that the venue of examination be at “an agreeable location within the
mileage restrictions set forth in Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.220.” (Motion
at p. 12.) 
During the meet and confer
process, Plaintiff objected to the necessity of an IME, referring to the
qualified medical examination (QME) of Dr. Jeffrey Coker performed during
Plaintiff’s worker’s compensation case against Defendant Surgical Affiliates
Management Group, Inc.  (SAMGI). (Motion
Exhs. 2, 4.) Plaintiff proposed a stipulation whereby Defendants would agree
“to accept the complete report of the mental examination conducted by Dr. Croker
[sic] as the final assessment of Plaintiff’s claims of PTSD for the purpose of
this case.” (Motion Exh. 4.) Plaintiff did not produce the report, and proposed
that Defendants could review the QME report after they stipulated to its
dispositive effect. (Mino Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 2.) 
Plaintiff in opposition argues
that there is no good cause for the IME, given the existence of Coker’s QME
report, from which he provides unauthenticated excerpts which corroborate his allegations
regarding the workplace origins of his distress. (Opposition at pp. 6–8.)[1] Plaintiff
also argues that Stein does not specifically identify the tests she proposes to
use, or the location of the exam. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) Plaintiff argues
that Stein specializes in the wrong subject area, and does not purport to use
the diverse battery of tests used by Coker. (Opposition at p. 10.) Plaintiff
argues that the short window of time between the January 31 hearing date and
the February 5 date of the initial examination is inadequate under Code of
Civil Procedure § 2032.220. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) Plaintiff finally asks
that any exam be conducted according to a variety of conditions. (Opposition at
pp. 10–13.) 
The Coker QME is not a suitable
replacement for the IME that Defendants propose. When a plaintiff’s mental
condition is in controversy, “defendants are entitled to have petitioner examined by a psychiatrist of
their own choice pursuant to an order which complies with” applicable law. (Whitfield
v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 81, 83.) The
moving Defendants are not parties to the workers compensation proceeding, and
in any event, a QME appointed in the workers compensation context is not chosen
by any party, but is selected from a panel assigned by the administrative
director. (See Lab. Code § 4062.2, subd. (c).) What’s more, Plaintiff
does not offer the QME for the same purpose that an IME is intended to serve.
The purpose of an IME is to furnish the parties with discoverable information,
and there is no authority for the proposition that the conclusions of the
examiner are binding upon the litigants. Plaintiff, however, has not agreed to
produce the QME report except upon the condition that Defendants be bound by
its conclusions. (Motion Exh. 2 [October 27, 2023 Email], Exh. 4.) This is
improper, not least of all because Coker’s conclusions might prove erroneous. Dr.
Stein in a reply declaration criticizes the test battery presented by the QME
report (in those excerpts that Plaintiff has made available), and opines that
“the test battery produced by Dr. Coker is not one which would be relied upon
by a forensic psychologist in a civil matter.” (Stein Decl. ¶¶ 2–6.) There is
thus ample good cause to support the IME, even if the QME were also made
available to the parties.[2]
Plaintiff’s contention that the
motion does not describe the place of examination is of only superficial merit.
A motion seeking an IME must include “the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) Plaintiff neglects, however, that the omission
of a proposed venue from the motion, like its omission from Defendants’
proposed stipulation during the meet-and-confer process, was an attempt to give
Plaintiff the opportunity to agree to a venue of his choice, rather than
have one unilaterally imposed upon him. (Motion at p. 12; Exh. 1.) Plaintiff in
fact blows hot and cold as to the desired specificity of the proposed IME, on
one page objecting that there is no listed venue for examination, and on
another objecting (without basis) that the time of examination — required by
the same statute — cannot be set until “the venue of the examination is
identified.” (Opposition at p. 11.) In any event, Defendants have rectified the
omission by proposing a venue in Irvine with which Dr. Stein is familiar, and
which she testifies meets Plaintiff’s accessibility and medical requirements.
(Stein Decl. ¶ 17.)[3]
Plaintiff’s other objections are
without merit. Plaintiff argues that Dr. Stein specializes in the wrong subject
area, but she testifies that she has clinical practice in a number of
trauma-intensive areas, and has served as an expert witness on emotional
distress issues in labor and employment matters, like the present case. (Stein
Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff argues that there is insufficient notice of the proposed
dates of examination, but in addition to relying on the notice provision
applicable to physical medical exams not at issue here (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2032.220, subd. (d)), Plaintiff has been on notice of the February 5 and 9
dates of examination since the motion was filed on November 8, 2023. Plaintiff
thus offers no basis to deny the motion.
The proposed conditions and
amendments to the IME that Plaintiff offers in opposition are of varying
quality. They are, however, all matters upon which Plaintiff could have
conferred with Defendants before electing total opposition the IME, and for
which Defendants indeed invited Plaintiff’s input before the motion became
necessary. (Motion Exh. 2 [October 16, 2023 email].)
Some of these proposed
conditions amount to little more than unnecessary directives that Defendants
and Dr. Stein abide by statute. These include the proposal that Plaintiff be
permitted to record the examination — a right already granted by Code of Civil
Procedure § 2032.530, and applicable here — and the proposal that Plaintiff be
given a copy of the report related to him and prior reports by the same
examiner as to the same condition. (Opposition at pp. 10–11.) If Plaintiff
desires this latter information, he may make a demand for it without leave of
court as provided under Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.610. 
There are other proposed
conditions: that Plaintiff not be required to sign any forms; that all persons
assisting the medical examiner be identified by full name and title; and that
Plaintiff not be required to provide all but the most minimal personal
information to the examiner. (Opposition at p. 12.) These are submitted only as
terse demands, without justification or supporting authority. Plaintiff’s
request that no physical examination be conducted is also needless (Opposition
at p. 12), as no physical examination is proposed.
Plaintiff also proposes that all
written exams be administered by audio tests and verbal answers, rather than by
reading and handwriting. (Motion at p. 12.) Although not supported by any
declaration, this proposal is apparently based on Plaintiff’s “neuropathy in
the hand, making the proposed first day examination of 4–6 hours of written
tests exceptionally challenging for the plaintiff to complete.” (Motion at p.
10.) Dr. Stein contends that rendering the entire written portion of the exam
into an audio/verbal format is “not realistic,” as each written test involves
potentially hundreds of test items, some with multiple response options, each
of which would have to be read aloud to Plaintiff, and which would lengthen
20-minute history-form process into a two-hour process, not considering the
other written tests to be administered. (Supp. Stein Decl. ¶¶ 15–16.) Dr. Stein
also notes the inconsistency of Plaintiff’s objection to this mode of
examination, when he must have completed similar testing to undergo the QME
that he promotes as an alternative. (Supp. Stein Decl. ¶ 15.) 
The court agrees with Defendants
that Plaintiff’s proposed all-verbal test accommodation is impracticable for
the reasons stated by Dr. Stein, and need not be adopted. However, the fact
that Plaintiff’s proposal is overbroad and overly burdensome does not mean that
his neuropathy cannot be accommodated in some other way. For instance, although
Plaintiff’s neuropathy, as described, would make extended periods of handwriting
difficult for him, he does not claim to be print-disabled, or that reading is
otherwise difficult. The accommodation that Plaintiff evidently requires is in
the manner of responding to the written exams, not in the manner by which the
test-items are delivered to him. Thus while Plaintiff’s proposed condition
furnishes no basis to deny or limit the IME order, the court directs the
parties to meet and confer concerning Plaintiff’s neuropathy, and
accommodations for same, prior to the examination. 
Plaintiff’s proposal that the
tests commence at 11 a.m. rather than 9 a.m., is also of some merit,.
(Opposition at p. 12.) Defendants in their meet and confer correspondence
assured Plaintiff that they were amenable to an examination venue in the “Long
Beach area,” where Plaintiff resides. (Motion Exh. 2 [October 17, 23, 2023
emails].) The proposed venue here, however, is in Irvine, approximately an
hour’s drive away. (Reply at p. 3.) The 11 a.m. start time may thus be an
appropriate measure to take into account the increased distance proposed by
Defendant. Dr. Stein does not oppose a later start time, but warns that
starting the examinations later could push the tests to later in the day.
(Supp. Stein Decl. ¶ 14.) The court and parties may address the relative merits
of either starting time at the hearing on this motion.
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
The exam is set to begin at 9 a.m. or 11 a.m., depending on the time chosen by
Plaintiff at the hearing on this motion. The parties are directed to meet and
confer concerning Plaintiff’s hand neuropathy and accommodations for the same. 
Although Defendants seek
$5,235.00 in sanctions, no sanctions are proper here. The statute governing
motions to compel an IME does not contain a mandatory sanctions provision. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310.) Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.410 permits a
range of sanctions against a party who “is required to submit to a physical or
mental examination . . . but fails to do so,” but as yet Plaintiff has not
failed to attend an IME that he has been ordered to attend. No sanctions are
therefore awarded.
 


