 Case Number:  21STCV33705    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Prada USA Corp.’s Motion for to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production against Plaintiff Lindsey Sterling is
GRANTED. Further responses are ordered within 30 days. Sanctions are awarded
against Plaintiff and her counsel in the amount of $2,550.00.
 
Defendant to provide Notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER – PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
“A party may demand
that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession,
custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further
response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the
response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(b).) 
 
A motion to compel
a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts
showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland
v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a
legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the
burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully
respond to the inspection demand.  (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d
210, 220.)
 
Defendant Prada USA
Corp. (Defendant) seeks to compel further responses from Plaintiff Lindsey
Sterling (Plaintiff) to Requests for Production No. 69 and 70. This motion
requires some factual background.
 
On March 8, 2023,
this court granted Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to
supplemental requests for production and 
interrogatories. Plaintiff had previously provided  responses stating that she had no documents
related to her search for new employment, and had stated that she had no
information concerning health providers who treated her for injuries arising
from Defendant’s alleged conduct. When Plaintiff later testified at deposition
that she in fact had employment-search documents, and further named a number of
previously unnamed health providers who had treated her for case-related
injuries, Defendant served supplemental requests seeking the documents and information.
Plaintiff responded to these requests only with unsupported objections,
however, and the court granted Defendant’s motion to compel.
After this order, shortly
before the second session of Plaintiff’s deposition in May 2023, Defendant
served a resume belonging to plaintiff and, evidently, no other documents
concerning her job search. (Papac Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. E.) At her deposition,
Plaintiff confirmed that this was the resume she had used to seek subsequent
employment after leaving Defendant, notwithstanding Defendant’s questions
concerning a portion of the resume that indicated she still worked for
Defendant. (Papac Decl. Exh. F at pp. 315–321.) After coming back to the
deposition from lunch, Plaintiff stated that she had “one thing to say,” and
her counsel stated that she wanted to “clear the record.” (Id. at p.
341–342.) Plaintiff stated that she was not “a hundred percent sure” that the
resume produced “is the updated resume that I sent.” (Id. at p. 407.)
Plaintiff confirmed that she had another version of the resume that did not
falsely indicate that she still worked for Defendant, and that she thought she
had given it to Defendant. (Id. at p. 408.) She stated that she had
likely prepared the unproduced, updated resume in April or May of 2020, shortly
after her termination, while preparing applications to other employers. (Id.
at p. 409.) 
 
Following email
correspondence with Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff produced another resume on
September 6, 2023, accurately indicating that she no longer worked for
Defendant. (Papac Decl. Exh. G, H.) It is this resume that is the subject of
the motion. A week later, on September 13, 2023, Defendant served requests for
production seeking “the original native electronic format” of the resume, in
both PDF and word document formats, “with all metadata.” (Separate Statement.)
Plaintiff responded tardily on October 24, 2023, stating, “After a reasonable
and diligent search, responding party does not have any responsive documents to
this request it is lost. [sic]” (Separate Statement.) After another email
exchange in which Plaintiff’s counsel refused to elaborate or explain how
Plaintiff had lost the resume she had served a month earlier, the present
motion followed. (Papac Decl. Exh. K.)
 
Further responses
are warranted to the requests at issue because Plaintiff’s responses are “inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) The
contention that the native electronic format of the resume is “lost” is
unworthy of credence. Plaintiff served the document through her attorney a week
before the requests at issue were served, and Plaintiff’s prior statements of
inability to comply related to the same job-search documents were later proven
to be false in the proceedings leading up to this court’s order granting
Defendant’s prior motion to compel. 
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition only provides further basis for granting the motion. First,
Plaintiff confirms, repeatedly, that the resume served on September 6, 2023,
was not the one to which Plaintiff referred at deposition, but was an “updated”
copy of the resume prepared after that deposition took place. See, e.g.,
Opposition at p. 13 [“Plaintiff is not disputing that she updated her
resume after her deposition on May 24, 2023.”[.] Thus the requests at issue are
supported by ample good cause, as they are directed toward verifying the
authenticity of the second resume, which Plaintiff now acknowledges is
inauthentic. 
 
Plaintiff contends
that she cannot produce the native files because her laptop is broken.
(Opposition at p. 2.) Yet the deposition testimony that Plaintiff relies upon
for this point is from her May 2023 deposition, several months before she
provided the “updated” resume. (Opposition at p. 12; Westmoreland Decl. Exh. 17
at  p. 363.) Plaintiff does not explain
how the broken laptop prevents her from accessing the native files for the
resume, when it did not prevent her from creating it.
 
Plaintiff also
contends, falsely, that the original resume produced at Plaintiff’s deposition
was a scanned copy of a physical document, and that no electronic versions of
the original are available. (Opposition at pp. 10, 13.) The testimony that
Plaintiff cites does not stand for this proposition; it states only that Plaintiff
“printed them out,” meaning the outdated resumes that still listed her as
employed with Defendant, “and that’s what I had left over.” (Westmoreland Decl.
Exh. 15 at pp. 315–316.) She thus stated that she had physical copies of the
resume left over, not that she lacked any electronic copies. Indeed, as
Defendant notes in reply, the metadata on the original resume’s PDF file (which
is how it was produced to Defendant) indicates that it originated as a word
document prepared in March 2019, long before this litigation, which was
modified (likely converted into a PDF) on the date of Plaintiff’s May 2023
deposition. (Papac Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) The contention that Plaintiff never had
an electronic copy of the resume is without basis.
 
Plaintiff therefore
has in her possession the word document and PDF of the updated resume in their
native format, and has simply refused to produce them. Her statements of
inability to comply are, like the previous such statements brought before this
court, simply false.
 
The motion is
GRANTED. 
 
II.               
SANCTIONS
Statute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon
a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to interrogatories or requests for production of documents, absent substantial
justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310,
subd. (h).)
 
Defendant seeks
$2,550.00 in sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel, representing ten
hours of attorney work at $255 per hour. (Papac Decl. ¶ 14.) 
 
In the previous motion to compel
further, this court awarded sanctions only against Plaintiff’s counsel, and not
Plaintiff herself, based on Plaintiff’s averment in deposition that she had
produced responsive documents to her counsel, Dominique Westmoreland, which had
not been passed on to Defendant. Here, however, Plaintiff’s opposition
memorandum directly states that she prepared the false resume for production to
Defendant. It is true that this admission is included only in the opposition memorandum
authored by Westmoreland, and this opposition is so riven with flagrant
misrepresentations, damning admissions, and baffling inconsistencies, that it
is difficult to imagine anyone but its author approving its release. Nonetheless,
“[t]here is a presumption
that an attorney
has authority to appear
for any person for whom he professes to act.” (Wilson v. Barry (1951)
102 Cal.App.2d 778, 780.) That presumption applies to Plaintiff and
Westmoreland here.
Sanctions in the amount of $2,550.00 are therefore awarded
against Plaintiff and her counsel.
 