  Case Number:  21SMCV00085    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for terminating sanctions brought by
plaintiff against defendants.  The gist
of the motion is that defendants have essentially ignored their discovery
obligations and have done so willfully that at this point, only terminating
sanctions will cure the prejudice. 
Defendants oppose.
 
The event giving immediate rise to this motion is the need
for defendants’ depositions.  Plaintiff
served a notice of deposition but defendants failed to appear.  Plaintiff brought a motion to compel, which
the court granted.  Sanctions were
imposed.  Defendants, however, did not
appear at the depositions even pursuant to court order and have not paid the
sanctions.  Further, according to
plaintiff, defendants are essentially attempting to refuse service.
 
Defendants justify their position by noting that there was a
lull in discovery for a while leading them to believe that discovery was
over.  Thus, they claim that they were
somewhat taken off guard when new discovery was propounded.  That is no excuse.  They may have been surprised, and if they
required some scheduling adjustment as a result they could have asked for it.  Their actual self-help conduct is not excused
by the lull.  
 
Defendants also claim that they were unaware of the two
court hearings and that when they learned of the court’s ruling, they tried to
comply but to no avail and that they have produced documents.  Defendants’ supposed lack of knowledge is not
credible.  Plaintiff served them
properly.  The court views their conduct
as similar to what they did early on: they simply refuse to accept service and
then claim ignorance.  But that will not
do.  Defendants also complain that the
court was overly harsh at the hearing—directing not only monetary sanctions but
also that their depositions could be unlimited in length.  (Defendants are wrong about the latter
point.  The court directed that the
depositions, once started, would go day to day until completed, but the court
did not intend to say, and did not say, that the depositions were unlimited in
length.  It often happens that a
deposition is not completed on the first day—even given the statutory 7 hour
presumptive length.  The court’s order
was to ensure that the depositions were completed; the court said nothing about
extending the 7 hour presumptive limit per deponent.)  Defendants further attempt to justify their
behavior on the theory that they were concerned that plaintiff would inquire
about financial issues because of the debate about the COVID declaration.  (Plaintiff asserts that defendants signed a
false COVID declaration of hardship; defendants deny ever signing one.  In support of their position, defendants rely
on the fact that in the notice papers, plaintiff attached a blank
declaration.  That is not proof that
defendants never signed the declaration; providing a blank declaration was a
legal requirement under the COVID ordinances and statutes.)  Defendants, in their opposition, state that
they are sure that plaintiff will act inappropriately were they to be deposed
and that they would refuse to answer any financial questions and therefore they
should not be deposed or compelled to respond to any further discovery at
all.  Plaintiff, they argue, should be limited
to cross-examination at trial. 
Defendants contend that plaintiff’s counsel has been threatening to them
as well as grossly inappropriate. 
Plaintiff’s counsel contends that she has acted appropriately and that
it was defendants who have been inappropriate. 
The court has noted this problem in the past.  It appears that plaintiff has been—at least in
the past—over the top on this case with regard to some of the allegations.  At the same time, the court does not credit
defendants’ contention that counsel has been yelling at them for no good reason
(or at all).  At bottom though, the
problem is that even were the court to credit defendants’ position, they are
not allowed to engage in self-help and simply ignore their duties under the
discovery statutes or orders of this court.
 
The bottom line is that defendants’ actions do not comport
with the law.  Defendants do not get to
pick and choose what statutes they will obey and what statutes they will
ignore.  They do not get to elect whether
or not to follow court orders.  They
cannot evade knowledge by failing to open the mail or refusing service.  They cannot opt to ignore sanctions
orders.  They cannot, even now, decide
for themselves that they would rather not be deposed but that they would still
like to go to trial.  (In their opposition,
defendants do not state that they will consent to be deposed; rather they state
that they should be exempt from deposition and plaintiff should be allowed to
cross-examine them at trial.)  And with
the trial in just a few weeks, it is too late for the court to start to order
them to obey discovery and hope for the best. 
If defendants were truly worried that plaintiff would overstep,
defendants had ample remedies.  They
could have sought a protective order. 
They could have opposed the motion to compel.  At the deposition, they could have terminated
the questioning and sought the court’s protective if they believed that the
questions were in fact badgering or abusive. 
If they believed that plaintiff’s counsel would act inappropriately in a
way that the record would not pick up, they could have asked that a referee be
appointed (or terminated the deposition if such conduct actually occurred).  And if they thought that this court was not
acting properly, they could have sought appellate review by writ.  Instead, they resorted to self-help.
 
Nor does it aid their case to say that they were unaware of
the proceedings.  The court credits
plaintiff’s position that service was proper but defendants have attempted to
avoid service.  This court has already
had occasion to look at defendants’ actions when it comes to service and their
attempts to evade it.  While that might
(up to a point) work for the initial service of a complaint, once the complaint
is served those tactics do not suffice. 
In short, the court simply does not believe defendants’ claims of good
faith here.
 
The fact is that the court is convinced that defendants view
themselves as above the law.  No lesser
sanction will cure the prejudice of forcing plaintiff into a trial by
ambush.  Defendants’ conduct was willful
and deliberate and calculated to cause prejudice to plaintiff’s case.  It warrants terminating sanctions because the
court has no confidence that any lesser sanction will be effective unless it is
so severe that it is in essence a terminating sanction.  While the court knows that such sanctions are
to be used as a last resort—and the court has rarely imposed them in the past
(the court can recall only one other case where that was done)—they have a
place, and this is it.
 
Accordingly, plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions is
GRANTED.  Defendants’ answers are
STRICKEN.  Defendants are now in
DEFAULT.  The FSC and trial dates are
VACATED.  The court will set an OSC re:
Entry of Default Judgment for a date approximately 75 days out.  Plaintiff may submit CCP section 585 papers
to determine the amount of the judgment if the amount can be ascertained in
that manner.  However, the court advises
plaintiff that it plans to look at the 585 papers carefully to ensure that the
amounts are proper and not inflated. 
Plaintiff is also advised to be accurate in its damages requests and
limit the requests to amounts that can be and are proven and that are properly
recoverable from the causes of action alleged.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.