  Case Number:  21STCV01740    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  74 Habib et al.
v. A.L. Wilson Chemical Company, Inc. et al. 
Defendant UNIVAR Solutions USA
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
BACKGROUND  
This
case arises out of a products liability claim. 
Plaintiff Mamdouh Habib and Loris Attia (Plaintiffs) allege that
defendants, fourteen chemical companies (collectively Defendants), manufactured
products that exposed Mamdouh Habib (Habib) to toxic chemicals that led to
kidney cancer and eventually his death. 
On
December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the Second Amended Complaint.  The SAC alleges the following causes of
action: (1) negligence, (2) strict liability – failure to warn, (3) strict
liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of implied
warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
On
December 21, 2023, defendant UNIVAR Solutions USA Inc. (Defendant) filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment.  Defendant
seeks an order adjudicating Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for fraudulent
concealment and request for punitive damages. 
 
EVIDENCE
The Court preserves the parties’
evidentiary objections. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
            [A] motion for
 summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
 is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
 entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. “” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
  826, 850.) If the moving party carries this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
 opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
 of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
  389.)
 
DISCUSSION
Fraudulent Concealment – Fourth
Cause of Action
To
prevail on this cause of action, a plaintiff must prove, in part, that the
defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed a material fact with intent to
defraud the plaintiff and that plaintiff would have acted differently if they
had known of the concealed or suppressed fact. 
(Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  Defendant argues the court should grant
summary adjudication of this cause of action because Plaintiffs do not have,
and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence that Defendant knowingly concealed from
Decedent that one of Defendant’s products poses a risk of cancer.  In support, Defendant offers Plaintiffs’
discovery responses as evidence. (See Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 573, 580.) 
According
to Defendant, the responses are factually devoid.  Defendant does not have to affirmatively
disprove plaintiff’s case, rather, their initial burden can be met by showing
that plaintiff lacks, and cannot reasonably obtain, the evidence to establish
the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)  
Defendant
propounded Special Interrogatories on plaintiffs Sara, Jennifer and Stephanie
Habib and Loris Attia that requested all facts which supported their claim for
fraudulent concealment.  (Sayre Decl., Ex.
B pp. 4;19-20, Ex. C pp. 4:19-20.)  In
response, Plaintiffs stated that Defendant knew that its products could cause
kidney cancer because such information was generally known in chemical
industries.  (Sayre Decl., Ex. J pp.
28:8-12, Ex. K pp. 30:13-17.)  Even so,
Defendant did not share this information with consumers through written
warnings and material safety data sheets. 
(Sayre Decl., Ex. J pp. 33:17-34:14, Ex. K pp. 35:23-36:20.)  The Court finds Plaintiffs’ contention that
Defendant knew about the cancer risk speculative, though.  That is, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses do
not cite any specific scientific study of which Defendant should have been
aware. 
Moreover,
Special Interrogatory No. 19 to Plaintiffs Sara, Jennifer and Stephanie Habib
and Special Interrogatory No. 48 to Loris Attia ask Plaintiffs to identify all
documents that support their claim of fraudulent concealment against Defendant.  (Sayre Decl., Ex. B pp. 4:24-26, Ex. C pp.
4:24-26.)  Plaintiffs respond by citing
documents produced in prior litigation, in addition to scientific studies and
tests conducted on Defendant’s products. 
(Sayre Decl., Ex. J pp. 39:9-14, Ex. K pp. 41:25-42:3.)  Plaintiffs do not specify which documents,
studies or tests support their claim. 
Importantly, Plaintiffs do not identify tests or studies that concluded
Defendant’s product is carcinogenic. 
These
responses do not inform the court whether Defendant knew of the cancer risk and
suppressed the information.  Thus,
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses do not demonstrate Defendant’s intent to
conceal a material fact from Decedent. 
Defendant has satisfied its prima facie burden, meaning the burden
shifts to Plaintiffs to create a triable issue of material fact. 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s product was determined to pose a “physical hazard or
health risk” but offers no additional evidence or connection showing that
Defendant knew its product caused cancer.  Consequently, Plaintiffs have not created a
triable issue of material fact whether Defendant knew about and intentionally
concealed a material fact from Decedent. 
 
Punitive Damages
            As
with the Fraudulent Concealment cause of action, Defendant argues that the
court should grant its motion for summary adjudication on Punitive damages
given Plaintiffs’ discovery responses.  Under
Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff may recover punitive damages if it proves
by clear and convincing evidence the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.  In this context,
malice can mean despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a
conscious disregard of the safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  In a motion for summary judgment, the initial
burden is on the defendant to show the plaintiff cannot prove the defendant
acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.  (Fadeef v. State Farm General Insurance Co.
(2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 94, 109.)  If a
defendant meets that burden, the burden then shifts to the plaintiff to provide
evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could find clear and convincing
evidence of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Ibid.)
            Defendant
points to Plaintiffs’ responses to their Special Interrogatories regarding
punitive damages suffering from the same deficiencies as their responses to the
Fraudulent Concealment cause of action. 
(Sayre Decl., Ex. J pp. 46:10-49:22, Ex. K pp. 53:2-56:14.)
            The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ contention that Defendant knew about the risk of kidney
cancer speculative.  Plaintiffs’
responses do not cite any relevant scientific study of which Defendant should
have been aware.  Without knowing its
products posed a risk of kidney cancer, Defendant could not have consciously
disregarded Decedent’s safety nor could Defendant have knowingly ratified the
decision to sell the product without a necessary cancer warning. 
            Similarly,
Plaintiffs’ response to the requests for production cite studies and tests
conducted on Defendant’s products that are allegedly in Defendant’s possession,
but Plaintiffs do not cite any specific studies.  (Sayre Decl., Ex. J pp. 52:15-20, Ex. K pp.
59:17-22.)  Thus, Defendant has met its
prima facie burden. 
            As
above, Plaintiffs do not provide additional evidence proving that Defendant had
knowledge of the cancer risk in the relevant timeframe.  Thus, Plaintiffs have not created a triable
issue of material fact whether Defendant consciously disregarded Decedent’s
safety.  The Court grants Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of punitive damages. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of
action and punitive damages. 
            Defendant
shall give notice.