 Case Number:  24STCV07239    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 11, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         MONARCH LLC v. Total Resources
International, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV07239            
 
(1)  
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2)  
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff MONARCH, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendant
Total Resources International, Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/22/24: Complaint filed. 
·        
06/26/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a Proposition 65 enforcement action. Plaintiff alleges that first-aid
kits sold by Defendant contain Diisonyl Phthalate and that Defendant failed to
disclose this information. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories, and for
sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories, and for
sanctions. As the motions are subject to the same legal standard and concern
substantially identical factual and legal issues, the Court addresses the
motions jointly in the interest of brevity. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel propounded Requests for Admissions, Requests for Production, Form
Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories on Defendant on May 3, 2024.
(Declaration of Daniel M. Greenbaum ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) Defendant served responses to
the complete set of discovery on July 20, 2024 by mail and electronic service.
(Id. ¶ 11; Exh. 5.) Accounting for a two-day extension for electronic
service, these motions were due on September 5, 2024, the date these motions
were filed and served. Plaintiffs’ Motions are timely.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further
responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable
and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the
motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300
(b)(1).)
Plaintiff’s counsel states his
office sent Defendant’s counsel a meet-and-confer letter regarding the
discovery responses on August 14, 2024. (Greenbaum Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 6.)
Plaintiff does not state whether Defendant responded to this letter, or whether
there was any additional effort to communicate with Defendant’s counsel to
informally resolve this dispute. A single letter is not sufficient to
demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at informal resolution.
Plaintiff has not satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
Nevertheless, the Court will address the merits of the motions to expeditiously
resolve this dispute.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Articles of
Organization for MONARCH ACTION, LLC filed February 22, 2022; (2) the September
12, 2023 Amendment to those Articles of Organization; (3) the October 12, 2023
Amendment to those Articles of Organization; and (4) a printout of a search
report for “MONARCH ACTION” on the official website of the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder. 
 
            Defendant’s
Requests Nos. 1-3 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c)
(official acts). Defendant’s Request No. 4 is DENIED as irrelevant to the
Court’s ruling. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those
matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
propounded sets of Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories to
Defendant on May 3, 2024. (Greenbaum Decl. Exh. 1.) In response, Defendant
served boilerplate objections claiming that the discovery “was propounded by a
non-entity in the State of California and non-party to this case and was
therefore unlawfully propounded, void and without force or effect.” (Id.
Exh. 5.) 
 
            Defendant
contends in its opposition to these motions that MONARCH LLC is a non-existent
entity and not a party to this case. The Complaint in this action, filed March
22, 2024 originally named “MONARCH LLC” as the Plaintiff. The First Amended
Complaint, filed June 26, 2024, clarifies that “MONARCH” is an abbreviation for
“Mothers Oversight Network for Actionable Contaminant Harm.” (FAC ¶ 4.) Moreover,
the Amendments of Articles of Organization filed with the Secretary of State,
which Defendant purports to rely upon in opposition, plainly states that
MONARCH is an abbreviation for the name of the entity as of September 2023.
(See RJN Exhs. 2-3.) Defendant offers no authority in support of the conclusion
that applying an abbreviation of an LLC’s legal name is improper, and Defendant’s
bare assertion that an abbreviation is a “fictitious business name” subject to
the requirements of Business & Professions Code section 17918 is not
persuasive. Defendant’s objections and arguments are wholly specious and
without merit. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling further
responses to both form and special interrogatories. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and
severally, for Defendant’s invalid objections. 
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300(d).) However, sanctions are
not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s
counsel claims that he incurred 2.5 hours on each motion at an hourly rate of
$600, for a total of $1,500 on each motion. (Greenbaum Decl. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s
counsel offers no evidence or testimony as to the reasonableness of those
expenses by, for example, speaking to his legal training or years of
experience. Plaintiff has therefore failed to demonstrate that the attorney’s
fees sought are, in fact, reasonable. The Court thus declines to award
sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
//
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 11,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 