  Case Number:  21STCV45351    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 11, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: November 12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Barry Ben-Ron et al. v. Maria De Lourdes
Ruiz.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV45351
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Barry Ben-Ron and Brian Sean Costello
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Maria De
Lourdes Ruiz
 
CASE
HISTORY:

12/13/21:
             Complaint filed.
06/15/22:
             Cross-Complaint filed.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract
case. Plaintiffs purchased a property from Defendant which Plaintiffs allege
was subject to a PACE loan. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant agreed to pay off
the loan through escrow, such that the property would be transferred to
Plaintiffs clear of any lien and failed to do so, despite receiving money in an
amount equal to the balance on the loan, from escrow. 
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether Defendant owed a duty to
either Plaintiff to pay off a PACE lien through escrow for sale of the subject
property to Plaintiffs, and for summary adjudication of Defendant’s First
Affirmative Defense. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in its entirety. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether Defendant owed a duty to
either Plaintiff to pay off a PACE lien through escrow for sale of the subject
property to Plaintiffs, and for summary adjudication of Defendant’s First
Affirmative Defense. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Request for
Judicial of Notice
 
            Plaintiffs request that the Court
take judicial notice of a Notice of Assessment recorded in the Official Records
of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on October 1, 2018. Plaintiffs’
request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official acts). 
 
//
 
//
Defendant’s Tardy
Opposition
 
            Plaintiffs object to Defendant’s
opposition on the grounds that it was served and filed on Wednesday, August 28,
rather than the due date of August 27 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c subdivision (b)(2). The Court has discretion to consider or
disregard late filed papers. (See Cal. Rule of Court 3.1200(d).) As this motion
seeks summary adjudication of issues which are central to the dispute in this
matter, the Court is not inclined to disregard an opposition that is merely one
day late and appears to have caused no prejudice to Plaintiffs in preparing
their reply papers. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs object to portions of Defendant’s
evidence submitted in opposition to this motion. The Court rules on these
objections as follows:
 
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED.
The Declaration contradicts prior adverse deposition testimony. (D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20-22.) 
 
Objection No. 2: SUSTAINED
as irrelevant. (Evid. Code § 350.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs request a determination
that Defendant owed a duty to both Plaintiffs to pay off the PACE lien on the
subject property through escrow for the sale of that property. Plaintiffs also
request summary adjudication of Defendant’s First Affirmative Defense that the
Seller Property Questionnaire contains the printed language “This disclosure is
not intended to be part of the contract between Buyer and Seller.” As the
issues of duty and the affirmative defense are intertwined, the Court will
address them together. 
 
            The undisputed facts of this case
are that, in October 2020, Plaintiffs and Defendant executed a written contract
for the purchase of real property located at 212 East 24th Street, Los Angeles,
CA. (Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact &
Defendant’s Separate Statement of Disputed Fact Nos. 1, 8.) The contract was
prepared on a form entitled California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint
Escrow Instructions with a Seller Multiple Counter Offer. (Id.) The
Agreement was signed on October 10, 2020 by Defendant, as Seller, and Plaintiff
Ben-Ron as Buyer. (Id.) Plaintiff Ben-Ron assigned an interest in the
agreement to Plaintiff Costello. (Id. No. 11.) Paragraph 13.B of the
Agreement provides:
 
Title is taken in its present condition
subject to all encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
rights and other matters, whether of record or not, as of the date of
Acceptance except for (1) monetary liens of record (which Seller is obligated
to pay off) unless Buyer is assuming those obligations or taking the Property
subject to those obligations; and (ii) those matters which Seller has agreed to
remove in writing. 
 
(SSUMF No. 2, 9;
SSDF No. 2, 9.) Defendant and Plaintiffs also signed a Seller Property
Questionnaire indicating that the property was subject to a PACE lien. (SSUMF
Nos. 3-4, 10, 12; SSDF Nos. 3-4, 10, 12.) Specifically, Paragraph 14.E of the
Questionnaire asks if the seller is aware of “Any PACE lien (such as HERO or
SCEIP) or other lien on your Property securing a loan to pay for an alteration,
modification, replacement, improvement, remodel or material repair of the
Property?” (SSUMF No. 4, 12; SSDF No. 4, 12.) The box labeled “Yes” next to
Paragraph 14.E is checked, and in the “Explanation” section there is a
handwritten statement “Has a Loan for improvements that will be paid through
escrow.” (Id.) At the time of the sale, there was a recorded PACE lien
on the subject property. (SUMF Nos. 5, 13, SSDF Nos. 5, 13.) 
 
            Plaintiffs categorically state that
they did not agree to assume the obligations on the PACE lien, nor did they
agree to take the property subject to the PACE lien. (SSUMF Nos. 6, 13.) Further,
Defendant admitted in her deposition that she understood that the bank mortgage
and PACE lien were to be paid through escrow. (SSUMF Nos. 7, 14.) In
opposition, Defendant argues that the PACE Lien is properly considered an
“assessment” by the express terms of the Notice of Assessment. (SSDF Nos. 6, 14;
see RJN Exh. E.) Defendant contends that under Paragraph 17 of the Agreement,
certain listed items “shall be paid current and prorated between Buyer and
Seller as of close of escrow,” including real property taxes and assessments.
(SSDF Nos. 6, 14.) In reply, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant ignores that
paragraph 17 expressly states that applies “[u]nless otherwise agreed in
writing. (See Plaintiffs’ Exh. C. ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs contend that the parties executed
such an agreement in the form of the Seller Property Questionnaire via the
handwritten explanation that the loan would be paid through escrow. 
 
            The effect of the Seller Property
Questionnaire is also the subject of the First Affirmative Defense, which
contends that the Questionnaire is not a promise to pay off the PACE loan
through escrow, as alleged in the Complaint, because the Questionnaire states in
Paragraph 1 that “[t]his disclosure is not intended to be part of the contract
between Buyer and Seller.” (See Answer to Complaint.) Plaintiffs argue that the
handwritten explanation stating that the Pace Lien would be paid through escrow
overrides the form language in Paragraph 1 under general rules of contract
interpretation. (See Civ. Code § 1651 [handwritten contract language controls
over printed; original language controls over form language].) In opposition,
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs beg the question by assuming that the
Questionnaire is a contract in the first place. According to Defendant, the
Questionnaire, by its express language, is not a contract and therefore is not
subject to contractual rules of interpretation. In reply, Plaintiffs dismiss
Defendant’s argument as “sophistry” and stand on their position. 
 
            As stated in the Court’s September
10 ruling, the threshold issue is whether the Agreement’s reference to
“assessments” properly includes the PACE lien. This question is subject to
“well-established” rules for contract interpretation in the context of a
summary adjudication motion:
 
“The interpretation
of a contract is a judicial function. [Citation.] In engaging in this function,
the trial court ‘give[s] effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it
existed’ at the time the contract was executed. [Citation.] Ordinarily, the objective
intent of the contracting parties is a legal question determined solely by
reference to the contract's terms. [Citation.]” (Wolf v. Walt Disney
Pictures & Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1125-1126, 76
Cal.Rptr.3d 585 (Wolf).)
 
“The court generally
may not consider extrinsic evidence of any prior agreement or contemporaneous
oral agreement to vary or contradict the clear and unambiguous terms of a
written, integrated contract. [Citations.] Extrinsic evidence is admissible,
however, to interpret an agreement when a material term is ambiguous.
[Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126, 76 Cal.Rptr.3d
585; see also Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. G.W. Thomas Drayage &
Rigging (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 39-40, 69 Cal.Rptr. 561, 442 P.2d 641 [if
extrinsic evidence reveals that apparently clear language in the contract is,
in fact, “susceptible to more than one reasonable interpretation,” then
extrinsic evidence may be used to determine the contracting parties’ objective
intent].)
 
“The interpretation
of a contract involves ‘a two-step process: First the court provisionally
receives (without actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the
parties’ intentions to determine “ambiguity,” i.e., whether the language is
“reasonably susceptible” to the interpretation urged by a party.  If in light of the extrinsic evidence the
court decides the language is “reasonably susceptible” to the interpretation
urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the second step –
interpreting the contract. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Wolf v. Superior Court
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351, 8 Cal.Rptr.3d 649 (Wolf II);
[citations].) 
 
“When there is no
material conflict in the extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets the
contract as a matter of law. [Citations.] This is true even when conflicting
inferences may be drawn from the undisputed extrinsic evidence [citations] or
that extrinsic evidence renders the contract terms susceptible to more than one
reasonable interpretation. [Citations.] If, however, there is a conflict in the
extrinsic evidence, the factual conflict is to be resolved by the jury.
[Citations.]” (Wolf, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1126-1127, 76
Cal.Rptr.3d 585; see id. at p. 1134, 76 Cal.Rptr.3d 585 [“that extrinsic
evidence may reveal an ambiguity subjecting a contract to more than one
reasonable interpretation does not mean resolution of that ambiguity is necessarily
a jury question. Absent a conflict in the evidence, the interpretation of the
contract remains a matter of law”].)
 
(Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432-33.) 
 
When a dispute arises
over the meaning of contract language, the first question to be decided is
whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by
the party.  If it is not, the case is over.  If the court decides the language is
reasonably susceptible to the interpretation urged, the court moves to the
second question: what did the parties intend the language to mean? ... Thus,
where contract language is clear and explicit and does not lead to absurd
results, we ascertain intent from the written terms and go no further. If the contract is capable of more than one reasonable
interpretation, it is ambiguous, and we apply the standard rules of
interpretation in order to give effect to the mutual intention of the
parties.  In sum, courts must give a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation of a contract consistent with the
parties' apparent intent.  
 
(Department of
Forestry & Fire Protection v. Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (2015)
239 Cal. App. 4th 1060, 1066 [internal quotation marks, ellipses,
and citations omitted].) 
 
The Court ordered
supplemental briefing from the parties as to the proper interpretation of Paragraphs
13 and 17 of the Agreement, with particular focus on the meaning of the terms “encumbrances, easements, covenants,
conditions, restrictions, rights and other matters,” “monetary liens of record,” and “real
property taxes and assessments” and the application of those terms to the
Notice of Assessment recorded against the Property. (September 10, 2024 Minute
Order.) According to the parties’ Agreement, Plaintiffs were to take title
subject to all “encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
rights and other matters,” except for “monetary liens of record,” which
Defendant was obligated to pay absent a contrary agreement.  (Agreement, ¶ 13.)  The Agreement also provided, however, that
“real property taxes and assessments” were to be paid current and allocated
between the Plaintiff Buyers and Defendant Seller on a pro rata basis as of the
Close of Escrow.  (Id., ¶
17.)   The parties submitted supplemental papers in
compliance with the briefing schedule set by that ruling.
 
            Plaintiffs, in their supplemental
brief, argue that the language of the contract itself, standing independent of
the sales documents and the PACE legislation, is ambiguous as to whether the
PACE obligation is a “monetary lien of record,” as described in Paragraph 13,
or a “real property tax” or “assessment” as described in Paragraph 17. As
Plaintiffs state, the broad construction of Paragraph 13’s language dealing
with “encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights and
other matters” appears “all inclusive,’ covering any lien or assessment not
otherwise excluded by the Agreement. (SSUMF No. 2, 9; SSDF No. 2, 9.) Thus,
Plaintiff states, both “monetary liens of record” under Paragraph 13 and “real
property taxes and assessments” under Paragraph 17 are exceptions or exclusions
to the general rule of Paragraph 13. The Purchase Agreement defines neither “monetary
liens of record” as used in Paragraph 13 nor “real property taxes and
assessments” as used in Paragraph 17. (See Plaintiffs’ Exh. C.) Further, as
Plaintiffs detail, there are legal bases for describing the PACE obligation as
a lien of record, a loan, and an assessment. 
(Plaintiffs’ Supp. Brief, pp. 2-4.) 

 
Defendant does not meaningfully address Plaintiff’s arguments. Instead,
Defendant merely emphasizes that real property taxes and assessments are paid
current under Paragraph 17 as an exception to Paragraph 13B and argues that the
status of the PACE obligation as a monetary lien is not material. Defendant
also argues the Purchase Agreement “is not ambiguous when read carefully.” The
Court disagrees. The parties are expressly disputing the application of the Purchase
Agreement to a financial obligation that is not mentioned in the Purchase
Agreement based on contract terms which the Agreement employs without explicit
definitions. The Court concludes the Purchase Agreement is plainly ambiguous as
to how the PACE obligation should be treated. 
  
 
Defendant relies heavily on the language of the Notice of Assessment
without arguing explicitly whether it views the Notice as part of the contract
terms or as extrinsic evidence that may be used to resolve any ambiguity in the
Purchase Agreement.  While it is the
Court’s view that the Notice should not be considered part of the parties’
Purchase Agreement, this conclusion is immaterial because a review of its
language does not resolve the Agreement’s ambiguity. Defendant remarks that the
Notice of Assessment describes the PACE obligation as an assessment “dozens of
times” but ignores that the Notice also states that, upon recording, the
assessment “shall become a lien upon such real property.”  (Exhibit E, first page.) Of even greater
significance, Exhibit D to the Notice of Assessment reinforces rather than
dispels the uncertainty about how the PACE obligation is to be treated under
the Purchase Agreement.  (Id.,
Exh. D, at pdf p. 93.)  Exhibit D discusses
certain problems that may arise upon the transfer of the underlying property.
Specifically, it reveals an August 2010 announcement by Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac that they “will not purchase mortgage loans secured by properties with an
outstanding PACE obligation.” Disclosures to the Property Owner about possible
issues arising from the federal agencies’ positions include that “lenders . . .
may conclude the PACE assessment should be paid off before a property transfers
or is refinanced” or that “participating in a PACE program is a violation of
typical mortgage terms prohibiting senior liens without lender consent.”  These situations, Exhibit D continues, may
result in a buyer’s lender refusing “to finance the buyer’s first mortgage loan
unless the assessment is paid off.”  The
Court concludes from the warnings in Exhibit D that a transfer of property may
be taken subject to the PACE obligation, or it may be paid off before the
transfer to convey clean title to the buyer and give priority to the new
mortgagor’s lien. Because it acknowledges either possibility, the Notice of
Assessment taken as a whole offers little guidance for how the parties’
Purchase Agreement should be interpreted. 

   
Plaintiffs contend that the ambiguity is conclusively resolved by the Seller
Property Questionnaire, which should be considered
either part of the Purchase Agreement or parol evidence admissible to resolve
the contract ambiguity.  (Exhibit C.)   Because the Questionnaire explicitly states
it is “not intended to be part of the contract between Buyer and Seller,” and
the Purchase Agreement requires a written document to modify its terms, the
Court does not agree that the Questionnaire is either a separate contract or a
modification of the Purchase Agreement.  
 
Nonetheless, it is critical parol evidence of the parties’ intentions in
entering into the Agreement.  Pursuant to
Paragraphs 10A(4) and 14A of the Purchase Agreement, Defendant was required to
provide this Questionnaire within 7 days of execution of the Agreement.  (Exhibit C, ¶¶ 10A(4), 14A.)  In response, Plaintiffs had to approve the
disclosures or request repairs or other action from Defendant.  (Id., ¶ 14B.)  Through the Seller Property Questionnaire,
Defendant made a series of disclosures about “Title, Ownership Liens, and Legal
Claims.”  One of the pre-printed
questions on this standard form provided by the California Association of
Realtors was Paragraph 14.E, which asked Defendant to state whether there was
“Any PACE lien (such as HERO or SCEIP) or other lien on your Property securing
a loan to pay for an alteration, modification, replacement, improvement,
remodel or material repair of the Property?” (SSUMF No. 4, 12; SSDF No. 4, 12.)
The box labeled “Yes” next to Paragraph 14.E is checked, and in the
“Explanation” section there is a handwritten statement “Has a Loan for improvements that will be paid through escrow.” (Id.)
In contrast, Paragraph 14.F inquired whether the seller was aware of “[t]he
cost of any alteration, modification, replacement, improvement, remodel or
material repair of the Property being paid by an assessment on the Property tax
bill?” (See Id.; Plaintiffs’ Exh. D ¶ 14.F.) Unlike Paragraph 14.E, the box
labeled “No” next to Paragraph 14.F is checked. (Id.) Based on these
responses, Plaintiffs argue that, at the time of the execution of the Purchase
Agreement, Defendant understood the PACE Assessment to be considered a
“monetary lien” to be paid off in escrow and not an assessment on the property
tax bill.  This argument is reinforced by
Defendant’s own deposition testimony in which she states under oath that she
understood at the time of the escrow that the PACE obligation was to be paid
off in escrow out of the sales proceeds. 
(Plaintiff’s Exh. G.)   
 
Defendant, in opposition, argues that the Notice of Assessment clearly
indicates that it is an “assessment” to be collected in the same manner and at
the same time as the general taxes on real property. (See Plaintiffs’ Exh. E
§3(d).) As explained above, however, the Notice of Assessment interjects
additional uncertainty into the contract interpretation task before the Court
as its Exhibit D conveys the notion that the assessment may have to be paid off
in connection with a property transfer and, thus, does not forestall the PACE
obligation’s treatment either as an assessment under Paragraph 17 or a monetary
lien under Paragraph 13B.  As Plaintiffs
argue in reply, standing alone, the Notice of Assessment is not evidence of the
intent of the parties in executing the Purchase Agreement. There is no
evidence, for example, that Defendant examined, analyzed, and relied on the
Notice, and given her assertion that she speaks no English and had to have her
simple declaration translated for her, the idea that Defendant relied on this
Notice is questionable.  Defendant’s contentions
regarding the understanding of the escrow company are likewise irrelevant to
the determination of what the parties understood the Purchase Agreement to mean
with respect to the PACE obligation at the time the Agreement was executed. 
 
In summary, Plaintiffs have provided evidence tending to demonstrate that
Defendant, at the time of the Agreement, understood the PACE obligation to not
be an “assessment” for the purpose of the Agreement but rather a “Loan for
improvements that will be paid through escrow.” 
Defendant bears the burden to show with evidence that there is a triable
issue of fact as to the parties’ understanding of the Agreement when it was
executed. While the parties dispute the legal significance of the
Questionnaire, the record exposes no triable factual issues about its execution
or meaning in the context of the sales transaction.  Evidence of Defendant’s subsequent
understanding or confusion is not relevant, nor is evidence of the view of the
escrow company. The Notice of Assessment itself is not evidence of the parties’
intention, as it does not speak to the subjective understanding of the parties.
Defendant has therefore failed to carry her burden to demonstrate a triable
issue of fact on this point. The Court therefore finds that the PACE obligation
is subject to Paragraph 13B of the Purchase Agreement rather than an
“assessment” within the meaning of Paragraph 17. Defendant therefore owed a
duty to Plaintiffs to pay off the PACE obligation through escrow.
 
Further, the Court finds that the First Affirmative Defense is without
merit because whether the Seller Property Questionnaire is a contract itself is
immaterial; Defendant is required to pay off the PACE obligation under the
Purchase Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in its entirety. 
 
            Moving
parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 11, 2024.                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 