 Case Number:  22STCV30299    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JONATHAN
  POWERS, et al.,
  
         vs.
 
EQUITY WAVE
  LENDING, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV30299
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 14, 2024



 
Defendants Next
Day Appraisals, LLC’s and Brett Varon’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Jonathan S.
Powers, individually and as attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers and Jonathan
S. Powers Roth IRA’s and Henry Kreuter’s fourth amended complaint is sustained without leave to amend as
to the 2nd and 4th causes of action.
 
Defendants Next Day Appraisals, LLC (“Next Day”) and Brett
Varon (“Varon”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to the 2nd and 4th
causes of action in the fourth amended complaint (“4AC”) of Plaintiffs Jonathan
S. Powers (“Jon”), individually and as attorney-in-fact for Phyllis A. Powers
(“Phyllis”) and Jonathan S. Powers Roth IRA, and Henry Kreuter (“Kreuter”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs.
1-2; C.C.P. §410.10(e).) 
 
          Request
for Judicial Notice
          Moving
Defendants’ 5/7/24 request for judicial notice of the Varon appraisal dated
March 21, 2019 (D-RJN, Exh. A) is granted.
          Moving
Defendants’ 5/7/24 request for judicial notice of this Court’s 1/29/24 tentative
ruling on Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, which was adopted
as the order of the Court, is denied because this Court does not need to take
judicial notice of filings on the instant docket.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on April 26, 2024,
he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel via email, and
Plaintiffs’ counsel responded on April 29 indicating that the parties were
unable to resolve the issues raised in the demurrer.  (Decl. of Campo ¶2.)  Moving Defendants’ counsel’s declaration fails
to state whether he attempted to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference, and is therefore insufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).
 However, failure to sufficiently meet
and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v.
Hornbrook Community Services District (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving
Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their initial complaint on September 15, 2022.  Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on October 6, 2022. 
Plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 8,
2023.  Plaintiffs filed their third
amended complaint (“TAC”) on February 21, 2024. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative 4AC against Moving Defendants and
Non-moving Defendants Hightechlending, Inc. (“Hightechlending”), Brian Hedger
(“Hedger”), AAMC Orange County, Inc. (“AAMC”), Sandra K. Gramlich (“Gramlich”),
Jack J. Suddarth (“Suddarth”), Equity Wave Lending, Inc. (“EWL”), Gregory A. Moore
(“Greg”), and Edith A. Moore (“Edith”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging
five causes of action: (1) breach of fiduciary duty [against EWL and
Suddarth]; (2) negligence [against all Defendants]; (3) constructive
fraud [against EWL and Suddarth]; (4) misrepresentation [against
all Defendants]; and (5) fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment [against
Hedger].  
Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer on May 7, 2024.
 Plaintiffs filed their opposition on June
3, 2024.  Moving Defendants filed their
reply on June 6, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege in March 2018, Jon and Phyllis were
presented with an investment opportunity and loan servicing arrangement by
their broker and agent Suddarth and EWL. 
(See 4AC ¶17.)  Plaintiffs
allege the real property in this dispute are two vacant lots located at 3420
Dorothy Road, City of Calabasas, County of Los Angeles, California (“Calabasas
Property”) with Assessor’s Parcel Numbers 2080-015-033 and 2080-015-034 and a
legal description of: Lots 61 and 62 of Tract. No. 7094, as per map recorded in
book 92, pages 64 and 65 of maps, in the office of the county recorder of Los
Angeles County.  (4AC ¶3.)  
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending were the
agents for their principal, Hedger.  (4AC
¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege Hedger, by and
through his agents Greg, Edith and Hightechlending falsely misrepresented
Hedger’s status as a creditworthy borrower (with sufficient security in the
form of real property) to Plaintiffs, by and through its agents EWL and
Suddarth.  (4AC ¶17.)  
Plaintiffs allege in March 2018, Suddarth, the President
and authorized agent of EWL, advised and represented to Jon that he had
personally viewed the property and that the appraisal valuation was reasonably
accurate.  (4AC ¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege that however, the appraisal
valuation was not accurate and Suddarth’s representation was false.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth advised, assured, and represented to Jon that
the security provided sufficient protection, that the loan was over-secured,
and that if the security were foreclosed, there would be sufficient sale
proceeds to pay off the secured loan, interest, and all other fees and costs
related to the loan and foreclosure.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth’s representation was false.  (4AC ¶18.) 
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth assured and falsely represented to Jon that
the secured real property would easily sell for more than the loan amount.  (4AC ¶18.)
Plaintiffs allege the investment opportunity presented by
Suddarth and EWL to Jon and Phyllis provided that Jon and Phyllis would provide
money for a secured loan to Hedger, and act as servicer of the loan secured by
the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶19.)   Plaintiffs allege in reliance on the
representations made by EWL, Suddarth, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and
Hedger, Jon and Phyllis invested $168,000 for the lending arrangement.  (4AC ¶19.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending, agents for Hedger,
falsely misrepresented Hedger’s income and value of the real property security
to Plaintiffs by and through their agents. 
(4AC ¶19.)  Plaintiffs allege they
reasonably relied on the false misrepresentations by EWL, Suddarth, Greg,
Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger.  (4AC
¶19.)  
          Plaintiffs
allege on January 22, 2019, EWL, by and through its authorized agent Suzie
Peach, contacted Plaintiffs, its principals, seeking additional funding to
refinance Hedger’s secured loan, as requested by Hedger’s agents, Edith, Greg,
and Hightechlending.  (4AC ¶20.)  Plaintiffs allege Jon rejected the refinance
demand.  (4AC ¶20.)  
Plaintiffs allege on March 8, 2019, EWL, by and through its
authorized agents Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth (Senior Vice President of
EWL), again contacted Plaintiffs regarding Hedger and his agents’ refinance
demand.  (4AC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL made false
representations regarding the appraised value of the secured real property,
that Hedger was seeking to develop the Calabasas Property, and that Hedger
possessed a construction timeline.  (4AC
¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege EWL and its
agents failed to advise Plaintiffs that Hedger was at risk for default due to
his missed payments on the initial loan and that the refinanced loan opportunity
presented a greater risk than the initial loan due to the increased amount of
the loan and the fact that Hedger had missed payments.  (4AC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege EWL, by and through its agents, knew that Plaintiffs had
rejected the initial refinance demand, and that additional false
misrepresentations, deception, and omissions were necessary to convince
Plaintiffs to agree to the refinance demand.  (4AC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege a prudent fiduciary agent would have advised their
principal not to invest in this particular cash-out refinance loan due to the
increased risk of default and exposure to Plaintiffs as the opportunity was not
in the best interests of Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶21.) 
Plaintiffs allege they reasonably relied on the false representations,
deception, and omissions of EWL and its agents, including but not limited to
Suzie Peach and Debbi Suddarth.  (4AC
¶21.)  
Plaintiffs allege they proceeded to invest an additional
$274,000.00, as part of a refinance loan arrangement presented by its agent,
EWL.  (4AC ¶21.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending,
agents for their principal Hedger, misrepresented the creditworthiness and
income of Hedger, including the value of the real property security and the
fact that Hedger missed payments for the existing secured loan.  (4AC ¶21.) 

          Plaintiffs
allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented
the loan investment to Plaintiffs as an over-secured investment based on their
purported careful and diligent review and research of the borrower and secured
real property.  (4AC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith,
Hightechlending, and Hedger misrepresented that the loan to value ratio was
forty percent of the appraised value of $420,000 for the Calabasas Property and
that Hedger’s gross salary was $8,500 per month.  (4AC ¶22.) 
Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending owed Plaintiffs a
duty of care because they clearly knew or should have known that Plaintiffs and
Plaintiffs’ agents would rely on the inaccurate and misrepresented borrower
information Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending negligently prepared in making and
funding the loans.  (4AC ¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending
owed a legal duty of care to Plaintiffs. 
(4AC ¶22.)  
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, EWL, Greg, Edith, Hightechlending,
and Hedger failed to disclose and advise Plaintiffs that the property was
purchased for $75,000 in 2015, development of the Calabasas Property was not
permitted, that the development of the vacant lot had not been initiated, that
the permitting of the Calabasas Property could take two years or more, that the
lots did not have a sewer system and relied on a septic system thereby
materially impacting the value of the Calabasas Property, that Hedger had
missed payments on the original loan, and that Hedger was not properly and
thoroughly vetted, investigated, and evaluated for financial trustworthiness,
viability, credibility, and suitability. 
(4AC ¶23.)
Plaintiffs allege Edith, who was an employer of Hightechlending
and spouse of Greg, knew Hedger was dealing with financial hardship and likely
lacked an ability to repay the loan as she had a friendship with Hedger.  (4AC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege Edith failed to disclose Hedger’s financial hardship
when presenting and arranging the second loan with Plaintiffs’ agents EWL and Suddarth.
 (4AC ¶23.)  Plaintiffs allege the failure of Hightechlending’s
employee, Edith, to disclose the material information concerning Hedger’s
financial hardship and likely inability to repay the loan constituted a
material concealment and misrepresentation exposing Plaintiffs to undisclosed
risk known by Hightechlending, Edith, and Greg which was a substantial factor
and cause of the foreseeable harm suffered by Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶23.)
Plaintiffs allege EWL, as agents for Plaintiffs, hired two
licensed California real estate appraisers, Gramlich and AAMC in 2017 and Varon
and Next Day in 2019, who failed to carefully and diligently view and
investigate the Calabasas Property and provide accurate reports indicating that
Calabasas Property would utilize an above ground septic system and was not
connected to a sewer system.  (4AC
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Gramlich, AAMC,
Varon, and Next Day owed a duty of care to EWL and Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege the false and erroneous valuation of the Calabasas
Property by Gramlich, AAMC, Varon, and Next Day materially impacted the
appraised valuation of the Calabasas Property causing an erroneous valuation of
$420,000 by Gramlich and AAMC and then $450,000 by Varon and Next Day when in
fact the appraised value should have been $100,000 market value of the lots
that provided security for the money loaned by Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶24.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that Gramlich, AAMC, Varon,
and Next Day failed to view the property in person, were not familiar with the
specific location of the property and utilized pictures from a different
property.  (4AC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but for the failure of
Suddarth, EWL, Varon, Gramlich, Next Day, AAMC, Greg, Edith, and Hightechlending
to utilize due care and diligence regarding the valuation of the Calabasas
Property, an accurate and non-deceptive investment opportunity would have been
presented to Plaintiffs.  (4AC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege but for Gramlich’s and
Varon’s failure to perform a careful and diligent investigation and appraisal
of the Calabasas Property, Plaintiffs would have been aware of the actual
market value of the Calabasas Property. 
(4AC ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege
Suddarth, EWL, Gramlich, AAMC, Next Day, and Varon knew Plaintiffs would
reasonably rely on the false information provided by Suddarth, EWL, Varon,
Gramlich, Next Day, and AAMC regarding the valuation of the Calabasas
Property.  (4AC ¶25.)  
Plaintiffs allege in January 2019, Varon and Next Day
created an appraisal report for the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶26.) 
Plaintiffs allege the appraisal report indicates Varon signed the
initial appraisal report on January 16, 2019, which appears to have been
prepared for a different lender in January 2019.  (4AC ¶26.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that in March 2019, EWL
requested Varon and Next Day completed an appraisal for the Calabasas Property.
 (4AC ¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege rather than complete a new
appraisal, Varon and Next Day reused the initial appraisal report from January
2019 with the only change in the report being the date of Varon’s signature
which was March 21, 2019.  (4AC
¶26.)  This appraisal report was then
provided to EWL and Plaintiffs.  (4AC
¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege Varon and Next
Day erroneously failed to change the name of the lender to EWL although they
did change the signature date.  (4AC
¶26.)  Plaintiffs allege Varon and Next
Day, by and through their counsel of record, sought and was granted judicial
notice of the appraisal report with the signature date of March 21, 2019, but
failed to notify the Court that another version of that report existed with a
signature date of January 16, 2019. (4AC ¶26.) 
Plaintiffs allege Varon and Next Day failed to acknowledge that the
recycled report with a signature date of March 21, 2019, was indeed provided to
EWL and/or Suddarth, but that Varon and Next Day erroneously failed change the
name of the lender that the report was created for.  (4AC ¶26.) 

 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the 2nd
and 4th causes of action in the 4AC on the basis the causes of action fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Moving Defendants
due to the holding in Tindell v. Murphy
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1239.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Negligence & Negligent Misrepresentation (2nd & 4th
COAs)
A cause of action for negligence
requires the following elements: (1) defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty;
(2) breached the duty; and (3) the breach caused (4) damages.  (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)  A complaint which lacks allegations of fact to
show that a legal duty of care was owed is fatally defective.  (See Jones v. Grewe (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 950.)  The existence of a legal duty of care is
properly challenged by demurrer and is a question of law for the court.  (Hegyes v. Unjian Enterprises, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1103,
1111.)
“Negligent misrepresentation
requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s
lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true. It also
requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by
the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and damages to that
person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154,
internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege Suddarth, Next
Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich failed to exercise due care in the investigation,
viewing, and opining regarding the market value of the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶37.)  Plaintiffs allege Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich created and distributed an inaccurate and erroneous appraisal report.  (4AC ¶37.) 
Plaintiffs allege it was reasonably foreseeable that the appraisal
report would be reviewed and reasonably relied on by persons and/or entities,
such as Plaintiffs, with interest in the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶37.) 

Plaintiffs allege Next Day,
Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich owed a duty as licensed real estate appraisers to
Plaintiffs as it was known that they would rely on the erroneous appraisal
reports.  (4AC ¶38.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants Next Day, Varon,
AAMC, and Gramlich were required to exercise due care and diligence in
performing real property appraisal services as a similarly situated licensed
real property appraiser would exercise. 
(4AC ¶38.)
Plaintiffs allege Next Day,
Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich failed to act carefully and with due diligence in the
performance of their appraisal services by failing to investigate and appraise
the Calabasas Property carefully and diligently and to not distribute erroneous
appraisal reports.  (4AC ¶39.)  Plaintiffs allege they were harmed by the
negligence of Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich.  (4AC ¶39.) 
Plaintiffs allege the negligence of Defendants Next Day, Varon, AAMC,
and Gramlich was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ harm.  (4AC ¶39.)
Plaintiffs allege they were
harmed by the negligence of EWL, Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and
Gramlich.  (4AC ¶42.)  Plaintiffs allege the negligence of EWL,
Suddarth, Next Day, Varon, AAMC, and Gramlich was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiffs’ harm.  (4AC ¶43.)
Plaintiffs again fail to allege who
distributed the appraisal report to whom and who had knowledge of the
distribution.  (See 4AC ¶¶37-38.)
An appraiser designated by a
lender to value its borrower’s collateral for financing purposes generally owes
its duty of care to the lender, not to the borrower.  (Greenwald & Bank, Cal. Practice
Guide: Real Property Transactions, Ch. 6-L, 6:701.)  Indeed, “[w]hether the lender conducts the appraisal in house or hires
an outside appraiser, the considerations are the same. The appraisal ordered by
the lender is for its own protections and the borrower has [their] own means of
ascertaining the desirability of the property.”  (Willemsen v. Mitrosilis (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th
622, 629 [noting borrower should know lender’s appraisal is intended
for lender’s benefit, not to ensure success of borrower’s investment]; see also Tindell v. Murphy (2018)
22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1253-1254, [stating lender’s
appraiser had no duty of care to borrowers for inaccurate property description
as appraisal was intended to support lender’s evaluation of collateral, not
borrowers’ decision whether to purchase property].)
Here, Plaintiffs allege it was
reasonably foreseeable that Moving Defendants’ appraisal report would be
reviewed and reasonably relied on by persons and entities such as Plaintiffs
with interest in the valuation of the Calabasas Property.  (4AC ¶37.) 
Moving Defendants’ appraisal report was provided for Lender/Client
Atlantic Union, not for Defendant Hedger, identified as the Borrower, and most
importantly, not for Plaintiffs.  (D-RJN,
Exh. A.)  Here, as in Willemsen, there is no indication that Moving
Defendants were aware that Plaintiffs hoped to use the appraisal report at
issue as an investigational tool upon which to base their decision to approve
or reject the Calabasas Property when it was prepared for Atlantic Union, whose
relationship to EWL is not disclosed in the 4AC.  (Willemsen, 230 Cal.App.4th at pg. 631.)  Unlike in Soderberg v. McKinney (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1760, where an appraiser knew
that a particular group or class of persons to which plaintiffs
belonged—potential investors contacted by a broker—would rely on his report in
the course of a specific type of transaction he contemplated—investing in a
deed of trust secured by the appraised property, Moving Defendants’ appraisal
report was prepared for Atlantic Union, not EWL, and certainly not for
Plaintiffs.  (Tindell, 22 Cal.App.5th at pg. 1254.)  Plaintiffs’ opposition states that the appraisal
report was “created for and provided to Plaintiffs” without indicating the name
of the party who provided it to them. (Opposition, 5:23-25; 6:5-6.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd and 4th causes of action is sustained without leave to amend as to Next Day
and Varon.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
2nd and 4th causes of action in Plaintiffs’ 4AC is sustained without leave to amend as to Varon and
Next Day.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  