 Case Number:  22STCV26465    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative¿ 
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
¿ 
Background¿ 
 
Plaintiff Laurie Scott (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was injured
on March 23, 2022, when she slipped and/or fell on a substance on a floor
and/or walkway negligently owned, controlled, operated, and maintained by
Defendant Yard House USA, Inc. (sued as The Yard House, L.P.) (“Defendant”) on
Shoreline Village Drive in Long Beach, California. 
 
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendant
and Does 1 through 100. On September 27, 2022, Defendant filed its answer. 
 
On December
21, 2022, Defendant served Plaintiff with a Request for Statement of Damages.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11,
subdivision (b), a response was due within 15 days.  (Rios Decl., Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff served a Statement of Damages in
response but it did not state any amounts; instead, on the mandatory Form
Civ-050, for eight categories of damages, Plaintiff repeated the same response:
“According to Proof.  Discovery &
Investigation is continuing.”  (Id., Exh. 2.)  
 
On February 2, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel a Further
Statement of Damages from Plaintiff. The motion was assigned a hearing date of
October 13, 2023.
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
motion.  On the same day, she also served
a revised Statement of Damages.  The
Statement of Damages lists $13 million in general damages, broken down as
follows: $5 million for pain; suffering, and inconvenience; an additional $5
million for emotional distress; and $3 million for “other,” identified as “according
to proof under CACI 3905A” (which relates to pain, suffering, and emotional distress
damages).  The Statement of Damages also
lists more than $11 million in special damages, broken down as follows: medical
expenses of “less than $25k”; $4 million in future medical expenses; $4 million
in loss of future earning capacity; and $3 million for “other,” identified as “according
to proof under CACI 3903A” (which relates to past and future medical expenses).  (Slatkin Decl., Exh. 2.)
 
On October
6, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.11, subdivision (b), provides the procedure for
requesting a statement of damages in personal injury cases. 
 
When a
complaint is filed in an action to recover damages for personal injury or
wrongful death, the defendant may at any time request a statement setting forth
the nature and amount of damages being sought. The request shall be served upon
the plaintiff, who shall serve a responsive statement as to the damages within
15 days. In the event that a response is not served, the defendant, on notice
to the plaintiff, may petition the court in which the action is pending to
order the plaintiff to serve a responsive statement.
 
Discussion 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11, subdivision (b), a
defendant is entitled to request that the plaintiff provide a statement “setting
forth the nature and amount of damages being sought.”  The statement that Plaintiff served in
January 2023, which does not set forth any “amount” of damages, is plainly
deficient.  (Rios Decl., Exh. 2.)
 
The updated statement, served earlier this month, does set forth
amounts.  (Slatkin Decl., Exh. 2.)  But it is still deficient in that, in certain
respects, it does not set forth the “nature” of the damages being sought.  On mandatory form CIV-050, line 1(e), under
general damages, Plaintiff lists $3 million of “other” damages but does not “specify”
the nature of these other general damages. 
The reference to CACI 3905A on line 1(e) only deepens the mystery, as
that jury instruction relates to pain, suffering, and emotional distress, which
are specifically covered by lines 1(a) and 1(b) of the form.  This leaves Defendant to guess at what these “other”
damages are and, for example, whether they are in addition to, or included
within, the $5 million listed on line 1(a) and the additional $5 million listed
on line 1(b).
 
Similarly, on line 2(i), under special damages, Plaintiff lists $3
million of “other” damages but does not “specify” the nature of these other special
damages.  The reference to CACI 3903A
only deepens the mystery, as that jury instruction relates to past and future
medical expenses, which are specifically covered by lines 2(a) and 2(b) of the
form.  This leaves Defendant to guess at
what these “other” damages are and, for example, whether they are in addition
to, or included within, the “less than $25k” listed on line 2(a) and the
additional $4 million listed on line 2(b).
 
The motion is GRANTED in part. 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve a new Statement of Damages, on mandatory
form CIV-050, that sets forth the nature and amount of damages being sought.
 
Defendant also complains that the numbers on the Statement of
Damages served earlier this month are “absurdly excessive and unsubstantiated”
and “cannot be reconciled with discovery that has been exchanged to date.”  (Reply, at 2.)  A statement of damages, however, is just
that: a statement of damages, functionally similar to the amount stated at the
end of a complaint in a prayer for relief (when permitted).  If, as Defendant argues, the amount is
excessive, then Defendant has an adequate remedy available to it: Defendant may
pursue the issue of damages through robust discovery.  A further statement of damages is neither
necessary nor authorized to address this issue. 
(Indeed, it is unclear what relief the Court could fashion or enforce,
as the Court cannot be expected to adjudicate, at this stage of the
proceedings, what claimed damages are or are not excessive and unsubstantiated.)  Defendant’s request that the Court order
Plaintiff to serve a new Statement of Damages that is not excessive, or one
that is tethered to the discovery responses to date, is DENIED.
Finally,
although there is some discussion of potential sanctions in the briefing, Defendant
makes request for sanctions in the notice of motion and motion.  Accordingly, the Court makes no award of
sanctions.
Conclusion 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel a further Statement of Damages is GRANTED in part and DENIED
in part.  
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to serve a further Statement of Damages within 30 days of notice of
this order.  In this further statement,
Plaintiff must set forth the nature and
amount of damages being sought.  On mandatory
form CIV-050, if any amounts are claimed on lines lines
1(e), 1(f), 2(i), or 2(j), Plaintiff must “specify” (as the form requires) the
nature of the claimed damages.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.