 Case Number:  20STCV47832    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Defendants
Salvador Penatovar and KS Trans Service’s motion for relief from waiver of
right to jury trial is GRANTED. 
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP
section 631 provides that “[a]t least one party demanding a jury on each side
of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150), unless the fee has been paid by another party on the same side of the
case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 631(b).) The fee must be paid before the date
scheduled for the initial case management conference in the action. (Id., § 631(c).) If no case management
conference is scheduled in a civil action, the fee shall be due no later than
365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint. (Id., § 631(c)(2).) A party waives jury
trial by failing to timely pay the fee unless another party on the same side of
the case has paid that fee. (Id., §
631(f)(5).)
 
“The
court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although
there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id., § 631(g).) “A
trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when [] relief has been
denied where there has been no prejudice¿to the other party or to the court
from an inadvertent waiver.”¿ (Tesoro del Valle Master Homeowners Assn. v.
Griffin¿(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638.) Policy favors the court using its
discretion to proceed with a jury trial. (Bishop v. Anderson (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 821, 823.) 
 
“Where the right to jury is threatened, the
crucial focus is whether any prejudice will be suffered by any party or the
court if a motion for relief from waiver is granted. [Citations.] A
trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when ‘…relief has been
denied where there has been no prejudice to the other party or to the court
from an inadvertent waiver. [Citations.]’” (Wharton v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 100, 104.) “The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not
prejudice per se.” (Johnson-Stovall v. Superior Court (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 808, 811 [prejudice not shown by need to prepare
motions in limine, enlarged exhibits, and jury instructions unless
inadequate time also shown].) Rather, the prejudice that must be shown is
“prejudice from the granting of relief from waiver not prejudice from the jury
trial.” (Winston v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 600,
602, 603 [fact that it takes longer to try a jury case is not prejudice from
granting relief from waiver].)  
 
Discussion
 
Defendants assert their waiver of jury
trial was inadvertent and have submitted a declaration from their counsel,
Matthew G. Evans of Hosp, Gilbert & Bergsten, to support their motion. Defense
counsel attests to the following facts. Defendants’ Answer to the Complaint,
filed by Defendants’ then-counsel of record, Clark Hill, LLP, on or about
February 17, 2021, requested a jury trial. (Motion, Evans Decl., ¶ 5.) On
January 4, 2021, Plaintiff posted jury fees, but Clark Hill, LLP did not during
its defense of the case. (Evans Decl., ¶ 6.) On May 4, 2023, defense counsel’s
law firm substituted in as counsel, replacing Clark Hill, LLP. (Evans Decl., ¶
7.) Although the firm was diligent in defending the case, it did not realize
that Clark Hill, LLP had not posted jury fees. (Evans Decl., ¶ 7.) On August
10, 2023, the defense counsel’s firm realized that the jury fees had not been
posted and, accordingly, immediately posted the jury fees on that date and
filed a Notice of Posting Jury Fees. (Evans Decl., ¶ 10.) On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Robert Bishop, III (“Plaintiff”) served an objection to the notice. (Evans Decl., ¶ 11.) Defendants
argue, therefore, that their failure to timely post their jury fees, was the
result of their counsels’ mistake or inadvertence. 
 
Plaintiff argues that current defense counsel’s declaration does
not account for prior defense counsel’s delay and, therefore, without a
competent declaration showing mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, the
Court should deny the motion.
 
The Court finds good cause to grant the
motion for the following reasons. 
 
First, since Defendants’ prior counsel
included a request for jury trial with Defendants Answer, it appears that Defendants
have always intended to proceed through jury trial, lending credence to their
argument that the failure to timely post jury fees was the result of
inadvertence or mistake. 
 
Second, current defense counsel’s
declaration shows that his firm was unaware Defendants had not yet paid the
jury fees and acted within a reasonable time after substituting in as counsel
to post those fees. 
 
Third, although a declaration from prior
defense counsel would have been helpful, it was not necessary. “Where the right to jury is threatened, the
crucial focus is whether any prejudice will be suffered by any party or the
court if a motion for relief from waiver is granted. [Citations.] A
trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law when ‘…relief has been
denied where there has been no prejudice to the other party or to the court
from an inadvertent waiver. [Citations.]’” (Wharton v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 100, 104.) “The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not
prejudice per se.” (Johnson-Stovall v. Superior Court (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 808, 811 [prejudice not shown by need to prepare
motions in limine, enlarged exhibits, and jury instructions unless
inadequate time also shown].) Rather, the prejudice that must be shown is
“prejudice from the granting of relief from waiver not prejudice from the jury
trial.” (Winston v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 600,
602, 603 [fact that it takes longer to try a jury case is not prejudice from
granting relief from waiver].) Here, Plaintiff has not shown
what prejudice, if any, he will suffer from the granting of relief from waiver.
As stated above, it is an abuse of discretion to deny relief from waiver of the
right to jury trial where there has been no prejudice¿to the other party
or to the court. The Court will not suffer prejudice. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants
Salvador Penatovar and KS Trans Service’s motion for relief from waiver of
right to jury trial is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 