 Case Number:  23AHCV00745    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO DISMISS 
 
Defendant moves to dismiss the case.
 
Plaintiff
filed a complaint on April 4, 2023, alleging one cause of action for violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil Code section 51 et seq.
(“UCRA”).  Plaintiff claims that
Defendant Modern Shaman, LLC failed to design, construct, maintain, and operate
its website to be fully accessible to and independently usable by blind and
visually impaired people.  Plaintiff
alleges she is a visually impaired and legally blind person who requires
screen-reading software to read website content while using a computer. 
 
Tentative Ruling
Defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint is DENIED.  The Non-Jury Trial re Plaintiff’s Claim for
Injunctive Relief scheduled for 12/09/2024 is advanced to this date and
vacated.
 
Analysis
In her complaint, Plaintiff seeks permanent injunctive
relief, i.e., to cause a change in Defendant’s corporate policies, practices,
and procedures so that Defendant’s website will become and remain accessible to
blind and visually-impaired consumers.  (Compl., ¶ 4.)
 
In Defendant’s motion to dismiss, it contends the case is
moot and this Court should dismiss the case for two reasons: 
 
One, the Modern Shaman website was
corrected to meet ADA standards immediately following the alleged incident, and
monthly compliance logs (attached hereto as Exhibit A) confirm that the website
remains compliant despite its permanent removal from public view.  Two, and even more pertinently, the
restaurant’s last day of operation was June 30, it has permanently closed, and
the website is no longer in operation.  As
a result of both actions by the defendant, there is no possibility of ongoing
harm, and as such, there is no basis for injunctive relief.
 
(Motion, p. 3.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff makes several arguments.  First, that this motion is a demurrer that is
untimely. Second, that this motion is a defective motion for summary judgment
and lacks the required notice for a summary judgment motion, is untimely, lacks
a separate statement, and defense counsel failed to meet-and-confer regarding
this motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff
also argues that (1) Defendant has not met its burden of demonstrating that it
is absolutely clear that its wrongful behavior could not be reasonably expected
to recur, and (2) even if injunctive relief is moot, Defendant’s motion does
not address the $4,000 monetary damages for violation of the Unruh Act.
 
Notably, Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendant’s
argument that the complaint is moot due to the impending sale of the restaurant
equipment and transfer of the lease of the Greenleaf Avenue location.  “No justiciable controversy is presented where
the question sought to be adjudicated has been mooted by developments
subsequent to filing of the complaint.”  (M.M. v. Lafayette Sch. Dist.,
767 F.3d 842, 857 (9th Cir. 2014) (citing Church of Scientology of Cal.
v. United States (1992) 506 U.S. 9, 12).)
 
To demonstrate that a case is moot, the defendant must show
that (1) there is no reasonable expectation that the alleged violation will
recur, and (2) interim relief or events have completely and irrevocably
eradicated the effects of the alleged violation.  (County of Los Angeles v. Davis (1979)
440 U.S. 625, 631.)  “When both conditions are satisfied it
may be said that the case is moot because neither party has a legally
cognizable interest in the final determination of the underlying questions of
fact and law.”  (Ibid.)
 
As the moving party contends, it is generally appropriate to
dismiss an action once it has become moot.  “A
case is considered moot when ‘the question addressed was at one time a live
issue in the case,’ but has been deprived of life ‘because of events occurring
after the judicial process was initiated.’ . . . The pivotal question in
determining if a case is moot is therefore whether the court can grant the
plaintiff any effectual relief. . . . If events have made such relief
impracticable, the controversy has become ‘overripe’ and is therefore moot.”  (Wilson & Wilson v. City Counsel
of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1574.)
 
Based upon the
evidence presented, the Court determines Plaintiff’s request for injunctive
relief is moot.  First, there is no
reasonable expectation that the alleged ADA and Unruh violations will reoccur
because the business has not operated since its closure on June 30, 2024.  (Harlan Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defense
counsel declares that the sale of restaurant equipment and liquor license, and
transfer of the lease, is in escrow and projected to be finalized in late
October through early November.  (Supp.
Harlan Decl., ¶ 5, Exhs. 1-2.)  The
intended purchaser has no connection to Modern Shaman, LLC and is not owned by
any members of Modern Shaman, LLC.  (Supp.
Harlan Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  Defendant has no
plans to reopen the Greenleaf location nor at any alternate physical nor
virtual location.  (Supp. Harlan Decl., ¶¶
10.)  Second, the Court finds the
intervening events of closing the restaurant and selling the premises “have
completely and irrevocably eradicated the effects of the alleged violation.”  (Davis, supra, 440 U.S. at p. 631.) Plaintiff’s
claim for injunctive relief against Defendant is moot because the restaurant is
closed and not reopening.  (Kohler v.
Southland Foods, Inc. (9th Cir. 2011) 459 Fed. Appx. 617, 618 (“Kohler’s
claims for prospective injunctive relief [under Title III of the ADA] became
moot once the restaurant ceased operation.”) 
Because the undisputed facts show that Defendant’s restaurant and
website is closed to the public and has ceased operations, there is nothing to
enjoin. The Court concludes the injunctive relief claim is MOOT.
 
However, the closure
of the restaurant does not moot Plaintiff’s Unruh Act claim for statutory
damages arising from barriers encountered during her visits to Defendant’s
website, as a claim for statutory damages looks to past harm.  (Arroyo v. Aldabashi (N.D. Cal., Oct.
15, 2018) 2018 WL 4961637, at *5 [“Because a claim for damages under the Unruh
Act looks to past harm, a change in ownership does not moot this claim.”]; see
also Johnson v. Rai Rocklin Investments, LLC (E.D. Cal., Aug. 9, 2017)
2017 WL 3421848, at *2–3 [declining to dismiss an Unruh Act claim for damages
after dismissing an ADA claim for injunctive relief as moot].) 
 
Defendant asserts
that its website was fixed.  But making a
website comply with accessibility standards does not moot a Plaintiff’s claim
for statutory damages.  Defendant’s
motion has not shown that Plaintiff is not entitled to statutory damages for a
violation of the Unruh Act.  It merely
argues that since injunctive relief can no longer be provided, the case is moot
and should be dismissed.  (Motion, p. 5 [“Because
the Defendant made the necessary corrections and ceased all operations,
including the operation of the website, there is no longer any meaningful
injunctive relief that this Court can provide.  Accordingly, the case is moot and should be
dismissed.”[.) 
 
As Plaintiff’s claim
for statutory damages remains active, Defendant’s motion
to dismiss the case is DENIED.