  Case Number:  21PSCV00617    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Fleet Capital, Inc., Sam Ostayan, and Inco Builders’  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Respondent: Plaintiff Diana  Culkin TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Fleet Capital, Inc., Sam Ostayan, and Inco  Builders’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is a wrongful foreclosure action. On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Diana Culkin,  also known as Diana Jannette Marmolejo Corona, filed a complaint against  Defendants Fleet Capital, Inc. (Fleet Capital), Best Alliance Foreclosure and  Lien Services Corp. (Best Alliance), Inco Builders (Inco), and Does 1-25,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of California’s non  judicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful foreclosure, (3) conversion, (4)  unfair business practices, and (5) declaratory relief. On  February 9, 2022, Inco filed a cross-complaint against Culkin, Michael Culkin,  and Roes 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) trespass and (2)  slander of title. On  February 23, 2022, Fleet Capital and Inco filed a motion for judgment on the  pleadings as to the Complaint. On August 4, 2022, the court granted the motion  with leave to amend. On  October 7, 2022, Culkin filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  defendants and Sam Ostayan, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  violation of California’s nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful  foreclosure, (3) quiet title, (4) unfair business practices, and (5)  declaratory relief. On January 5, 2023, the court sustained a demurrer to the  FAC by Fleet Capital, Inco, and Ostayan. On  February 24, 2023, the court denied Fleet Capital and Inco’s motion to dismiss  Culkin’s action for failure to file a timely amended complaint and deemed  Culkin’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) filed as of that date. The SAC is  against the same defendants and alleges the following causes of action: (1)  violation of California’s nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful  foreclosure, (3) quiet title, (4) promissory estoppel, (5) breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) violation of the Rosenthal Fair  Debt Collection Practices Act, (7) unfair business practices, and (8)  declaratory relief. On  May 4, 2023, the court sustained a demurrer and granted a motion to strike by  Fleet Capital, Inco, and Ostayan as to the SAC. As a result, the operative SAC now  alleges the remaining causes of action: (1) violation of California’s  nonjudicial foreclosure statutes against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance, and  Ostayan; (2) wrongful foreclosure against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance,  Ostayan, and Inco; (3) quiet title against Best Alliance and Inco; (4) breach  of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing against Best Alliance; (6) violation of the Rosenthal  Fair Debt Collection Practices Act against Best Alliance; (7) unfair business  practices against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance, and Ostayan; and (8) declaratory relief  against Best Alliance. On May  21, 2024, Fleet Capital, Ostayan, and Inco (collectively, Defendants) filed the  present motion for summary judgment or adjudication. On August 12, 2024, the  court continued the hearing on Defendants’ motion. A  hearing on the present motion is set for October 21, 2024, along with a case  management conference and trial setting conference. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendants  ask the court to take judicial notice of seven documents: (1) a grant deed  recorded May 2, 2018, (2) a grant deed recorded January 14, 2019, (3) a notice  of default and election to sell under deed of trust recorded February 17, 2021,  (4) a notice of trustee sale recorded May 20, 2021, (5) a trustee’s deed upon  sale recorded June 22, 2021, (6) this court’s January 5, 2023 ruling on  Defendants’ demurrer to Culkin’s FAC, and (7) this court’s May 4, 2023 ruling  on Defendants’ demurrer to Culkin’s SAC. The  existence and factual contents of documents including recorded deeds of trust,  notices of default and trustee’s sale, and trustee’s deeds upon sale can be  noticed under Evidence Code sections 452, subdivisions (c) and (h), and 453. (Yvanova  v. New Century Mortgage Corp., 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, fn. 1.) Furthermore,  the court may take judicial notice of its own rulings. (Evid. Code, § 452,  subd. (d).) Accordingly,  Defendants’ requests are GRANTED. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Defendants’  objections to Culkin’s evidence are SUSTAINED as to Nos. 1, 2, and 3. To  the extent the court treats Culkin’s motion to quash Luis Alvarado’s  declaration of mailing filed in support Defendants’ motion for summary judgment  as an objection, the court finds Culkin failed to articulate a legal basis for such  an objection. ANALYSIS Defendants  move for summary judgment or adjudication of Culkin’s remaining causes of  action on the grounds that it is undisputed (1) Defendants gave timely notice  of the notice of default and (2) Culkin did not tender funds prior to the  foreclosure sale. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motion in its  entirety. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Discussion Here,  the gravamen of Culkin’s first cause of action for violation of California’s  nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, second cause of action for wrongful  foreclosure, third cause of action for quiet title, and seventh cause of action  for unfair business practices is the claim that Defendants improperly  foreclosed on the property located at 20556 Rancho La Foresta Road, Covina,  California 91724 (Covina Property). Culkin’s  first cause of action alleges Defendants committed the following violations: (1)  recording a notice of default when no default occurred (SAC, ¶ 52); (2) failing  to provide proper notice of sums due pursuant to Civil Code section 2966 (SAC,  ¶ 53, 58, 59, 63); (3) failing to sufficiently contact Culkin in person or by  telephone before filing notice of default pursuant to Civil Code section 2923.5  (SAC, ¶ 54); (4) failing to provide notice of assignment pursuant to Civil Code  section 2932.5 (SAC, ¶ 66); (5) failing to provide notice of default pursuant  to Civil Code section 2924b, subdivision (c)(1) (SAC, ¶ 75, 78); and (6)  improperly notarizing the trustee’s deed upon sale pursuant to Government Code  section 8224 (SAC, ¶ 79.) The court previously found the second, third, fourth,  and sixth allegations were inapplicable and failed as a matter of law. (05/04/2023  Notice of Ruling, e.p. 7-8.) Culkin’s  second cause of action alleges the non-judicial foreclosure of the Covina  Property was wrongful and should be set aside on the grounds alleged in the  first cause of action. (SAC, ¶ 86-89.) Culkin also alleges the foreclosure was  wrongful as Defendants rejected Culkin’s attempt to tender payment. (SAC, ¶ 42,  91-92.) Culkin’s remaining causes of action for quiet title and unfair business  practices are derivative of Culkin’s first two causes of action as both are  based on the same allegations of wrongful foreclosure. (SAC, ¶ 99-100, 128-129,  131-132.) Thus, the only remaining issues as framed by the pleadings are: (1) whether  Culkin defaulted as stated in the notice of default, (2) whether the notice of  default was properly noticed, and (3) whether Culkin adequately tendered  payment prior to foreclosure. As  to the first issue, it is undisputed Best Alliance recorded a notice of default  and election to sell under deed of trust against the Covina Property on  February 17, 2021. (Defendants’ Separate Statement (DSS), ¶ 5; RJN, Ex. 3.) The  notice states it is based on Culkin’s failure to pay $7,357.51 as of February  10, 2021. (RJN, Ex. 3, p. 2.) It further states that payment has not been made  of the following: “INSTALLMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND/OR INTEREST WHICH  BECAME DUE 6/2/2018; PLUS ALL LATE CHARGES AND ADVANCES AS SET FORTH IN SAID  NOTE AND DEED OF TRUST, PLUS ALL SUBSEQUENT INSTALLMENTS OF PRINCIPAL,  INTEREST, DEFAULT INTEREST, ENFORCEMENT COSTS AND CHARGES, COLLECTION COSTS AND  CHARGES, IMPOUNDS, CHARGES, ADVANCES, LATE CHARGES, OBLIGATIONS AND  INDEBTEDNESS AS THEY BECOME DUE, AND TRUSTEE'S FEES AND COSTS PURSUANT TO SAID  NOTE AND DEED OF TRUST, LESS CREDITS AND/OR OFFSETS. REINSTATEMENT WILL REQUIRE  ALL SENIOR LIENS, PROPERTY TAXES, AND HAZARD INSURANCE (NAMING LENDER AS AN  INSURED) TO BE IN A CURRENT AND PAID STATUS AND RELIABLE WRITTEN EVIDENCE  CONFIRMING IT.” (RJN, Ex. 3, p. 3.) In  supplemental briefing, Defendants provided a copy of the underlying promissory  note. (Ostayan Suppl. Decl., Ex. 1.) According to the terms of the note, Culkin  agreed to make monthly installment payments of interest on the principal at an  annual rate of five percent (5%) with the principal coming due at the end of  the loan term in August 2018. (Ostayan Suppl. Decl., Ex. 1.) The note also  included an acceleration clause which allowed the note holder to declare the  entire remaining interest and principal immediately due and payable upon  default on any installment payment. (Ostayan Suppl. Decl., Ex. 1.) Based on  these provisions, Defendants have established Culkin’s failure to make  installment payments was a breach of the underlying promissory note and resulted  in Culkin’s default. In  opposition, Culkin attempts to argue that Defendants cannot foreclose on unpaid  interest installment payments because the loan matured in August 2018 before  the present notice of default was filed. (Opp., p. 4:12-28; Suppl. Opp., e.p. 2:2-12.)  But while Culkin states a lender cannot unilaterally impose an extension of a  loan with mutual consent, Culkin fails to provide any legal authority for this assertion.  (Suppl. Opp., e.p. 2:7-8.) Furthermore, Culkin fails to point the court to any  authority that prohibits a lender from foreclosing on unpaid interest  installment payments after the underlying loan has matured. Culkin  also appears to take issue with the Defendants’ decision to base their notice  of default on unpaid installments as opposed to demanding a balloon payment and  suggests Defendants did so to avoid the notice requirements of Civil Code  section 2966. (Opp., p. 5:16-21; Suppl. Opp., p. 3:11-16.) Culkin, however,  fails to point to any legal authority that required Defendants to take one  approach over the other. Ultimately,  while the SAC alleges Culkin was not in default because the Defendants were not  permitted to only foreclose upon the interest (SAC, ¶ 52), the Defendants’  undisputed material facts establish that Culkin failed to make interest  installment payments. Defendants’ undisputed material facts also establish that  they were permitted to foreclose upon the entire amount of the loan pursuant to  the promissory note’s acceleration clause. Accordingly, the court finds there  is no triable issue of fact with regard to whether Culkin was in default. As  to the second issue of whether proper notice was given, the SAC alleges  Defendants failed to provide notice of default pursuant to Civil Code section  2924b, subdivision (c)(1). (SAC, ¶ 75, 78.) This provision states as follows: “Within one month following recordation of the  notice of default, deposit or cause to be deposited in the United States mail  an envelope, sent by registered or certified mail with postage prepaid,  containing a copy of the notice with the recording date shown thereon,  addressed to each person set forth in paragraph (2), provided that the estate  or interest of any person entitled to receive notice under this subdivision is  acquired by an instrument sufficient to impart constructive notice of the  estate or interest in the land or portion thereof that is subject to the deed  of trust or mortgage being foreclosed, and provided the instrument is recorded  in the office of the county recorder so as to impart that constructive notice  prior to the recording date of the notice of default and provided the  instrument as so recorded sets forth a mailing address that the county recorder  shall use, as instructed within the instrument, for the return of the  instrument after recording, and which address shall be the address used for the  purposes of mailing notices herein.” (Civ. Code, § 2924b, subd. (c)(1).) Here,  Defendants state it is undisputed that they mailed notice of the recorded notice  of default to Culkin on February 19, 2021. (DSS, ¶ 6.) Because this notice was within  two days of the notice of default being recorded on February 17, 2021 (DSS, ¶  5), the court finds Defendants met their initial burden of demonstrating they complied  with the notice requirements of Civil Code section 2924b, subdivision (c)(1). In  opposition, Culkin failed to file a separate statement that points to any  evidence disputing these material facts. Thus, there is no triable issue of  fact with regard to whether Culkin was provided proper notice pursuant to Civil  Code section 2924b, subdivision (c)(1). (Kojababian v. Genuine Home Loans,  Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 408, 416 [“If the opposing party fails to  submit the required separate statement, under the applicable law and rules, a  trial court may conclude that the opposing party has not satisfied his ‘burden  of production’ showing a triable issue of fact.”].) With  regards to the third issue of whether Culkin adequately tendered payment prior  to foreclosure, the SAC alleges Culkin was ready to tender the sums claimed on  June 9, 2021, but was unable to do so because Fleet refused to accept a wire  transfer payment. (SAC, ¶ 42.) In  their separate statement, Defendants state the following facts are undisputed. On  April 28, 2021, Culkin emailed Best Alliance with a request for payoff  information and indicated Culkin intended to pay the whole amount. (DSS, ¶ 7.)  On May 5, 2021, Best Alliance provided Culkin with a demand statement. (DSS, ¶  8.) On June 9, 2021, Culkin contacted Best Alliance and stated funds for the  payoff were in escrow and ready to be wired. (DSS, ¶ 12.) But despite Culkin’s  representations, Culkin did not have the funds prepared in escrow. (DSS, ¶  15-18.) Nor did Culkin ever tender such an amount to Defendants. (DSS, ¶ 20.) Based  on these facts, Defendants have met their initial burden of demonstrating that  it is undisputed Culkin failed to make a timely tender of payment. In  opposition, Culkin failed to file a separate statement that points to any  evidence disputing these material facts. Thus, there is no triable issue of  fact with regard to whether Culkin tendered payment prior to foreclosure. Accordingly,  the court finds there are no triable issues of material fact as to the  remaining issues in this action.  As such,  Defendants are entitled to summary judgment. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendants’  motion for summary judgment is GRANTED in its entirety.