 Case Number:  22STCV07330    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Asserted of
Request for Admissions (Set 1) served on Defendant Isaias Ortega filed by Plaintiff
Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club.
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
The request for sanctions is GRANTED in part.
Background
On March 1 2022,
Plaintiff Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Adam Derek Espinoza, Isaias Ortega, and Does 1
through 10 for subrogation recovery.  Defendant
Isaias Ortega (“Defendant”) filed his answer on June 24, 2022.
 
On February
16, 2023, served by mail Request for Admissions (Set One) on Defendant Isaias
Ortega (“Defendant”). Plaintiff has yet to receive responses.
 
On
December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Asserted in Request for
Admissions (Set 1) served on Defendant.  
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery
Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines
“[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.020, subd. (a).)
Where
there has been no timely response to requests for admissions, a “requesting
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with section 2023.010).” 
The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted
“unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been
directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to
the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).) 
“[P]roviding
untimely responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a
motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses … the trial court retains the authority to hear the
motion.”  (Id. at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important
incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id.
at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial court may
“deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in
part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 409.) “The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).)  
"Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of
right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have
motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date
initially set for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020,
subd. (a).) 
Discussion
On
February 16, 2023, served by mail Request for Admissions (Set One) on
Defendant. (Tapper Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff has yet to receive responses. (Id.,
¶ 3.)
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
Plaintiff has met the requirements for the requested
relief.  Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Asserted
in Request for Admissions (Set 1) served on Defendant Isaias Ortega.
 
Given the relatively straightforward nature of a
motion to compel initial responses, and the economies of scale associated with
filing multiple discovery motions, the Court sets sanctions on each motion in
the amount of $337.50 calculated based on 1.5 hours of attorney work,
multiplied by attorney’s hourly billing rate of $225.00.  (Id., ¶ 4.)
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Asserted in Request for Admissions (Set
1) served on Defendant Isaias Ortega.
 
Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to
Plaintiff in the amount of $337.50 within 30 days of notice of the ruling.
Moving
party is ORDERED to give notice.