 Case Number:  22STCV25081    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Default filed by Defendant City of
Los Angeles.
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
This arises from a motor vehicle incident
that occurred on December 14, 2023. 
Plaintiff Vartaw Grigorian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on August 3,
2022, asserting a cause of action under General Negligence and Motor Vehicle
Negligence against Defendants City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
Lazaro Ramirez and Does 1 to 100.
On September 14, 2023, default was entered
against Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”). On January 5, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion to set aside the default.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
Discussion
Defendant’s
counsel states that due to severe staffing issues, this matter “fell between
the cracks” and a responsive pleading was not filed. (Sassounian Decl., ¶ 2,
3.) Defendant’s counsel states that the default was due to attorney error in
failing to assign the case to a trial deputy. (Id., ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendant has attached a copy of its proposed Answer as Exhibit A. 
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
The Court finds Defendant
has established the default occurred due to counsel’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect due to staffing issues and mismanaging the assigning of the
case. Defendant has filed this motion within six months of default, as default
was entered on September 14, 2023.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion to set aside the default is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motion to set aside the default is GRANTED.
 
The default entered on September 14, 2023, is hereby SET
ASIDE.
 
Defendant is granted leave to file the answer attached to
its motion within 7 days.
 
The Court sets a Trial Setting Conference in
approximately 30 days.
                                                                                             
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  