  Case Number:  23TRCV03072    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to ComplaintBroker Defendants’ Demurrer is placed off calendar in light of the Court’s ruling on Seller Defendants’ Petition to Compel Arbitration and the Court’s order staying the entire action pending completion of arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants.“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:…(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (CCP §1281.2(c).)“If the court determines that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c),the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.” (CCP §1281.2, para. 4.)Seller Defendants are moving to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims pursuant to ¶31 of the Purchase Agreement. Broker Defendants are not a party to ¶31 of the Purchase Agreement. (Petition to Compel Arbitration, Ex. 2, ¶31(D)(“Agents shall not be obligated nor compelled to mediate or arbitrate unless they agree to do so in writing.”) Broker Defendants and Seller Defendants are named as joint tortfeasors in Plaintiffs’ tort causes of action and as co-defendants in the UCL cause of action. The claims against both Broker and Seller Defendants arise out of the same transaction and events and have overlapping factual and legal issues.Based on these facts, CCP §1281.2(c) applies and the Court has the discretion to choose from several options, including denial of the petition to compel arbitration. Here, it appears every issue of law and fact between Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants overlaps those as to Broker Defendants. There is therefore a danger of conflicting rulings if the Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants in arbitration and Broker Defendants in litigation are allowed to proceed simultaneously. The bulk of the wrongful conduct alleged in the complaint is against Seller Defendants. For these reasons, the Court orders arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants and stays the entire action pending completion of the arbitration.As the court has GRANTED Seller Defendants’ Petition to Compel Arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2, the entire action is stayed pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c), para. 4, pending completion of the arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants pursuant to ¶31 of the Purchase Agreement.As the entire action is stayed, the court takes the demurrer off calendar until such time as arbitration between the Plaintiffs and the Seller Defendants is completed.***Motion for Monetary and Non-monetary Sanctions against Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ Counsel pursuant to CCP §128.7The Court considered the moving papers, opposition and reply.RULINGDefendants’ request for CCP §128.7 sanctions is DENIED. Defendants fail to establish compliance with the 21-day safe harbor requirement. Defendants also fail to establish any substantive violation of CCP §128.7.BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Matthew Graham and Regan Cole purchased a single family home from Defendants Kerri and Richard Pomarolli (“Seller Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants remodeled the property without proper permitting and without a general contractor. Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants listed the property for sale on May 6, 2022 through Defendants Cory Jane Mishelevich-Birkett and Matilla Realty, Inc. d/b/a ERA Matilla Realty (“Broker Defendants”). Defendants falsely stated in the listing that the property contained a permitted family room addition.In June 2022, Plaintiffs entered into a residential purchase agreement with Seller Defendants for the property. Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants made multiple misrepresentations regarding the property in the purchase agreement, as well as in the listing. After purchasing the property, Plaintiffs discovered multiple defects in the home and ultimately discovered that the remodel work was improperly performed and unpermitted. Plaintiffs allege Broker Defendants also made alleged misrepresentations regarding the property.On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Seller and Broker Defendants alleging (1) fraud; (2) constructive fraud; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) violation of Penal Code §496; (5) negligence; (6) negligence per se; (7) breach of contract; (8) violation of Bus. & Prof. C. §17200, et seq.LEGAL AUTHORITY“By presenting to the court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met: (1) It is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. (2) The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law. (3) The allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery.” (CCP §128.7(b).)“Under section 128.7, a court may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. [¶] A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and is legally frivolous if it is ‘notwarranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.’ In either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable. A claim is objectively unreasonable if any reasonable attorney would agree that it is totally and completely without merit.” (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189 (CCP 128.7 sanctions properly imposed where it was obvious that plaintiffs’ claims were barred by res judicata, judicial admissions and judicial estoppel).)An action that is not legally or factually frivolous cannot be presented for an improper purpose. “Having concluded that the claims presented in the second amended complaint were nonfrivolous, we must also conclude that they were not presented for an improper purpose.”(Ponce v. Wells Fargo Bank (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 253, 265.)DISCUSSIONSeller Defendants ask that CCP §128.7 sanctions be imposed against Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ counsel. Seller Defendants argue the complaint was filed for an improper purpose and to harass them. Seller Defendants argue parties’ entered into an arbitration agreement that clearly applies to this action. Seller Defendants argue Plaintiffs refused to withdraw their complaint despite knowledge of the applicable arbitration agreement. Seller Defendants ask that the Court impose $9,000 in monetary sanctions and that it strike Plaintiffs’ complaint and dismiss Seller Defendants from the action.In response, Plaintiffs filed a combined opposition to Seller Defendants’ Petition to Compel Arbitration and the instant Motion for 128.7 Sanctions. Plaintiffs argue the requested sanctions are excessive.Seller Defendants claim they satisfied the 21-day safe harbor requirement under CCP §128.7(c). However, based on the proof of service, Seller Defendants filed the motion on May 28, 2024, and served it on the same date. Seller Defendants were required to serve the motion at least 21 days before they filed it with the Court. (CCP § 128.7(c)(1) (“Notice of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days after service of the motion…the challenged paper…is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”) Seller Defendants’ motion must therefore be denied for failure to establish that the 21-day safe harbor requirement was satisfied.Seller Defendants’ motion also fails substantively. Seller Defendants claim Plaintiffs’ complaint is frivolous and brought solely to harass them, because there is a clearly applicablearbitration agreement. However, a complaint is not “totally and completely without merit” merely because the alleged dispute is subject to an arbitration agreement. Even if there is an applicable arbitration agreement, the complaint is not dismissed. If a party successfully compels arbitration, the action would be stayed pending completion of arbitration and upon completion of arbitration, judgment would be entered on the arbitration award. Thus, existence of an applicable arbitration agreement does not affect the meritoriousness of a complaint.In addition, an arbitration agreement can be deemed unenforceable even if it is applicable to the dispute alleged in a complaint. For example, if CCP §1281.2(c) applies, as it does here, a court may decline to enforce an applicable arbitration agreement and force all parties to litigate their claims.In fact, a plaintiff does not waive the right to arbitrate by merely filing a complaint. (Doers v. Golden Gate Bridge etc. Dist. (1979) 23 Cal.3d 180, 185.) Thus, arbitration and filing of a complaint are not mutually exclusive.Moreover, a plaintiff may file a complaint in hopes that a defendant chooses not to exercise the right to arbitration. Arbitration can also fail, leading parties to agree to withdraw the matter from arbitration and reinstate the litigation. (See e.g. Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 487 (“Absent an agreement to withdraw the controversy from arbitration, however, no judicial act is authorized.”)For these reasons, Seller Defendants’ request for CCP §128.7 sanctions is DENIED. Defendants fail to establish compliance with the 21-day safe harbor requirement. Defendants also fail to establish any substantive violation of CCP §128.7.ORDERSeller Defendants’ request for CCP §128.7 sanctions is DENIED. Seller Defendants fail to establish compliance with the 21-day safe harbor requirement. Seller Defendants also fail to establish any substantive violation of CCP §128.7.***(1) Petition to Compel Arbitration (2) Motion to Stay Legal Action Pending ArbitrationIn connection with the Petition to Compel Arbitration, the court considered the moving papers, opposition and reply.In connection with the Motion to Stay, the court considered the moving papers. No opposition or reply papers were filed.RULINGDefendants Kerri Pomarolli and Richard S. Pomarolli’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED pursuant to CCP §1281.2. The entire action is stayed pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c), paragraph 4 pending arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants. Defendants Kerri Pomarolli and Richard S. Pomarolli’s Motion to Stay Legal Action Pending Arbitration is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs Matthew Graham and Regan Cole purchased a single family home from Defendants Kerri and Richard Pomarolli (“Seller Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants remodeled the property without proper permitting and without a general contractor.Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants listed the property for sale on May 6, 2022 through Defendants Cory Jane Mishelevich-Birkett and Matilla Realty, Inc. d/b/a ERA Matilla Realty (“Broker Defendants”). Defendants falsely stated in the listing that the property contained a permitted family room addition.In June 2022, Plaintiffs entered into a residential purchase agreement with Seller Defendants for the property. Plaintiffs allege Seller Defendants made multiple misrepresentations regarding the property in the purchase agreement, as well as in the listing. After purchasing the property, Plaintiffs discovered multiple defects in the home and ultimately discovered that the remodel work was improperly performed and unpermitted.On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Seller and Broker Defendants alleging (1) fraud; (2) constructive fraud; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) violation of Penal Code §496; (5) negligence; (6) negligence per se; (7) breach of contract; (8) violation of Bus. & Prof. C. §17200, et seq.LEGAL AUTHORITY“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or(b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (CCP §1281.2.)“The trial court may resolve motions to compel arbitration in summary proceedings, in which the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination. The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 776 (trial court properly decided plaintiff’s challenge to arbitration agreement despitedelegation clause where plaintiff attacked contract formation and very existence of agreement to arbitrate).)“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP §1281.4 (para. 1).)DISCUSSIONI. Petition to Compel ArbitrationA. Seller Defendants Establish an Applicable Arbitration Agreement and Plaintiffs Fail to Raise any DefenseSeller Defendants move to compel arbitration pursuant to the arbitration clause contained in the parties’ residential purchase agreement (“Purchase Agreement”). (Motion, Ex. 2.) Paragraph 31 of the Purchase Agreement states, “[t]he Parties agree that any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided by neutral, binding arbitration…The arbitration shall be conduct through any arbitration provider or service mutually agreed to by the Parties….” (Motion, Ex. 2, ¶31.)Plaintiffs’ claims undoubtedly arise out of the Purchase Agreement, as the complaint is based entirely on the misrepresentations made in the Purchase Agreement itself and in connection with Defendants’ sale of the property. (FAC, ¶¶24-40.) Seller Defendants therefore establish the existence of an applicable arbitration agreement to Plaintiffs’ dispute. Plaintiffs do not dispute that the arbitration agreement applies to their dispute.In response, Plaintiffs argue Seller Defendants failed to satisfy the condition precedent of selecting an arbitrator mutually agreed to by Plaintiffs and Seller Defendants and have thus waived their right to arbitrate.B. The Contract Does Not Contain a Condition Precedent“A condition is an event which must occur or be excused before performance on a contract becomes due. Conditions precedent are not favored and contractual provisions will notbe so construed in the absence of language plainly requiring such a construction.” (In re Marriage of Hasso (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1174, 1181.)There is no language in ¶31 that would make the obligation to arbitrate contingent upon first selecting an arbitrator, e.g. “subject to” or “conditioned on.” Plaintiffs fail to point to any such language. Absent plain language requiring that parties first appoint a mutually agreeable arbitrator prior to complying with their obligation to arbitrate, the Court will not construe paragraph 31 as imposing such a condition precedent on the parties’ obligation to arbitrate. The Court rejects Plaintiffs’ contention that their obligation to arbitrate was contingent upon selection of a mutually agreeable arbitrator.C. Defendants Have Not Waived Their Right to ArbitrationIn the alternative, Plaintiffs argue Seller Defendants have waived any right to compel arbitration by refusing to name an acceptable arbitrator. “A party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 447, 453.) As the party asserting waiver, Plaintiff bears the heavy burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense. (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)While there is no single test for establishing waiver, the relevant factors include: (1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps (e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration) had taken place; and (5) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party. (Saint Agnes Med. Ctr., supra, 31 Cal.4th at 1203.) The presence or absence of prejudice from the litigation is a determinative issue. (Id. at 1203–1204.)Any claim that the right to arbitration has been waived is reviewed with close judicial scrutiny. (Id. at 1195.) “Although a court may deny a petition to compel arbitration on the ground of waiver (§ 1281.2, subd. (a)), waivers are not to be lightly inferred and the party seeking to establish a waiver bears a heavy burden of proof.” (Id.) Any doubts concerning thescope of arbitrable issues should be resolved in favor of arbitration, whether the problem at hand is the construction of the contract language itself or an allegation of waiver, delay, or a like defense to arbitrability. (Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy, Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 320.)Plaintiffs fail to carry the heavy burden of establishing waiver. Seller Defendants were under no obligation to name an acceptable arbitrator prior to exercising their right to demand arbitration. Plaintiffs fail to articulate how the failure to name an arbitrator during the parties’ discussions qualifies as waiver of the right to arbitrate. Moreover, Plaintiffs fail to cite to specific evidence of Seller Defendants’ absolute refusal to participate in the process to select a mutually agreed upon arbitrator. Given Plaintiffs’ refusal to voluntarily participate in arbitration, Seller Defendants understandably chose to obtain an order compelling arbitration before attempting to select a mutually agreeable arbitrator.Plaintiffs raise no other arguments in opposition to the request to compel arbitration. Defendants have established an applicable arbitration agreement and Plaintiffs have failed to raise any defense to arbitration. Therefore, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.II. Motion to Stay Proceedings Pending Arbitration“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies…If the issue which is the controversy subject to arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.”Seller Defendants also filed a separate motion to stay the action against them pending completion of arbitration pursuant to 1281.4. In light of the Court’s order granting the petition to compel arbitration and staying the action pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c), Seller Defendants’ request to stay this action pending arbitration is GRANTED for those reasons.III. Selection of Neutral ArbitratorShould parties reach an impasse in selecting a neutral arbitrator, they may petition the Court to appoint the arbitrator pursuant to CCP §1281.6. “If the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seekarbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.”ORDERDefendants Kerri Pomarolli and Richard S. Pomarolli’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED pursuant to CCP §1281.2. The entire action is stayed pending arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Seller Defendants. Defendants Kerri Pomarolli and Richard S. Pomarolli’s Motion to Stay Legal Action Pending Arbitration is GRANTED.