  Case Number:  22STCV14590    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  54  



Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
TruConnect Communications, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV14590




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Hugo Sanchez,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
October 14, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
Moving Party: Defendant
Hugo Sanchez
Responding
Party: Plaintiff TruConnect Communications, Inc.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY'S FEES IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, reply, and
supplemental briefing.
BACKGROUND
                
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiff TruConnect Communications, Inc. filed a
complaint against Defendant Hugo Sanchez for (1) breach of contract; and (2)
trade secret misappropriation. Defendant is a former employee of Plaintiff.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant disclosed confidential trade secret information to
his new employer and Plaintiff’s direct competitor. Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed the action December 19, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 128.5 provides “(a)
trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay . . . (c) Expenses pursuant to this section
shall not be imposed except on notice contained in a party’s moving or
responding papers or, on the court’s own motion, after notice and opportunity
to be heard. An order imposing expenses shall be in writing and shall recite in
detail the action or tactic or circumstances justifying the order.” (CCP §
128.5.) Under California Civil Code § 3426.4, if a
claim of misappropriation is made in bad faith, the Court may award reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs to the prevailing party.
Defendant
moves for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $336,748.60 under CCP § 128.5 and Civil Code §
3426.4. 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff brought and maintained this action in bad faith.
Defendant represents that Plaintiff continually obstructed discovery, refused
to timely provide an accurate trade secret disclosure, and dismissed this
action shortly before trial to avoid the work of trial. Defendant argues that
this shows the action was frivolous and that Plaintiff brought the action in
bad faith to stifle competition and prevent Plaintiff’s employees from leaving.
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that it brought and maintained this action on the
good faith belief that Defendant breached their confidentiality agreement and
provided Defendant’s new employer with Plaintiff’s third-party compensation
model. Plaintiff represents that Defendant told Plaintiff that he was using
this trade secret at his new employer and that the new employer, a direct competitor
of Plaintiff, implemented a similar model shortly after hiring Defendant.
Defendant states that it dismissed the action due to Defendant’s refusal to
provide sufficient discovery, and because it determined that additional
litigation would not be economically desirable. 
“Bad
faith” is determined by a two-prong test: “(1) objective speciousness of the
claim, and (2) subjective bad faith in bringing or maintaining the action,
i.e., for an improper purpose.” (FLIR Systems, Inc. v. Parrish (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1275.) Here, Plaintiff brought this action with at least some
evidence and some basis for its allegation of misappropriation. Plaintiff
dismissed the action when continuing the litigation became untenable. This does
not show that the action was “objectively specious” or that it was brought for
an improper purpose. 
Defendant’s
motion for attorney’s fees is DENIED.