  Case Number:  24TRCV00625    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JOSELYN
  L. MARQUEZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00625




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
ROLLINS,
  INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 18,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Joselyn L.
Marquez
Responding
Party:                   None
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Production, Set One from Defendant
Adonnis Alexander Andrade
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed. 
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
Defendant Adonnis Alexander Andrade
is ordered (1) to serve on plaintiff Joselyn L. Marquez a further verified
response without objections to plaintiff’s Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One and (2) to produce all documents and things in defendant’s possession,
custody, or control, which are responsive to plaintiff’s demand, within twenty
days.
BACKGROUND
            On February 22, 2024, plaintiff
Joselyn L. Marquez filed a complaint against defendants Rollins, Inc., Wheels
LT, and Adonnis Alexander Andrade for (1) negligence, (2) negligent hiring,
supervision, retention, and (3) negligent entrustment.  Plaintiff alleges that on December 5, 2022, defendant
Adonnis Alexander Andrade, operating a vehicle owned by defendant Orkin
Services of California (erroneously sued as Rollins, Inc.), collided into
plaintiff’s vehicle causing plaintiff to sustain severe injuries. 
            On April 19, 2024, defendants Orkin
Services of California (erroneously sued as Rollins, Inc.) and Adonis Alexander
Andrade filed an answer to the complaint. 
            On December 4, 2024, the Court
granted plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to form and special
interrogatories and requests for admissions from defendant Andrade.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).
A statement of compliance shall
state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be
allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.  CCP § 2031.220.  
“A representation of inability to
comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  This statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  CCP §
2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Joselyn L. Marquez requests that the Court compel defendant Adonnis Alexander
Andrade to respond further to plaintiff’s Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, Nos. 1 through 39.
            Plaintiff
explains that she served her discovery requests, including a Demand for
Production of Documents, Nos. 1 through 39, on defendant Adonnis Alexander Andrade via electronic service on June 21, 2024.  Defendant served objection only responses on
September 3.  On September 28,
plaintiff’s attorney sent a meet and confer letter to defense counsel
requesting supplemental substantive responses to plaintiff’s demand by October
4.  On October 4, defense counsel
responded, “I was not able to provide supplemental responses to the discovery
today as requested in your letter.” 
            Defendant
responded to each request as follows:  “Objection.  Defense counsel submits these objections in
good faith and in the spirit of complying with the Professional Rules of
Conduct and Guidelines for Civility in Litigation.  Professional courtesies have been extended
previously and the parties have been able to resolve issues in the past.  Defense counsel remains willing to cooperate
so that substantive responses can be provided.  However, due to unforeseen circumstances
additional time is necessary to complete the meet and confer process to allow
Responding Party to provide substantive responses.  At this time, out of an abundance of caution
to preserve appropriate objections, this responding party objects as follows:  The request is vague, ambiguous, overbroad,
burdensome, harassing, unintelligible, and shotgun in nature. Responding party
further objects to the request in that it is not reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence, irrelevant to the subject matter of
the action, and therefore a misuse of discovery.  The request lacks foundation and calls for a
legal conclusion.  This request seeks
information gathered in anticipation of litigation and information protected by
the attorney-client and attorney-work product privileges, including violating
the authorities of Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Super Ct. (McCormick)
(1996) 47 Cal. App. 4th 215 and Soltani-Rastegar v. Super. Ct. (Brinzo)
(1989) 208 Cal. App. 3d 424, 429.  This
request is also objected to in that it seeks the premature disclosure of expert
opinions or witness information and seeks information that violates the privacy
rights of responding party and/or third-parties.” 
            Plaintiff
argues that the objections lack merit and that there is good cause of the
documents.  See Separate Statement.
            There
is no opposition.
The Court
finds that defendant Andrade’s
objections are without merit, and defendant
has not substantiated his objections. 
Plaintiff has also shown good cause. 
The
motion is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions

Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiff seeks $860 in
sanctions.  Plaintiff’s request is DENIED
as it was not properly noticed as required under CCP §2023.040, which states in
part, “[a] request for
a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and
attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought.”  Plaintiff failed to do both.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED. 
Defendant Adonnis Alexander Andrade
is ordered (1) to serve on plaintiff Joselyn L. Marquez a further verified
response without objections to plaintiff’s Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One and (2) to produce all documents and things in defendant’s possession,
custody, or control, which are responsive to plaintiff’s demand, within twenty
days.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.