 Case Number:  BC699897    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 15, 2023                TRIAL DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Jennifer Rivas v. Dynamic Nursing
Services, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC699897            
 
(1)  
PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD
(2)  
PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRAITON AWARD

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiff Jennifer Rivas; (2) Defendant Dynamic
Nursing Services, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendant
Dynamic Nursing Services, Inc.;(2) Plaintiff Jennifer Rivas.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            In her Complaint, filed on March 28, 2018, Plaintiff alleges that she was
harassed and terminated based on her disability. The case was ordered to
arbitration on August 15, 2018. 
 
Plaintiff petitions to confirm an
arbitration award. Defendant petitions to vacate the arbitration award. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Petition to Confirm
the Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s
Petition to Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
 
            Plaintiff
petitions to confirm an arbitration award. 
 
//
 
Procedural Requirements 
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been
made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The
petition shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name
as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1285.)  
 
Here, the Petition names all parties to the arbitration. (Attachment 3(b)(1).)
 
In
addition, a petition under this chapter must: 
 
¿(a)¿Set
forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate
unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. 
 
¿(b)¿Set
forth the names of the arbitrators. 
 
¿(c)¿Set
forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators, if any. 
 
 (Code Civ. Proc. 
§ 1285.4.) 
 
            The
agreement to arbitrate is not directly attached to the Petition. Instead, the
Petition references the Declaration of Sherri Nazarian filed concurrently with
the petition. The agreement to arbitrate is contained within the Employment Agreement
attached to the Declaration of Sherri Nazarian as Exhibit A. (Declaration of Sherri
Nazarian ISO Petition Exh. A.) The name of the Arbitrator (the Hon. Rex
Heeseman (ret.)) is included in the petition. (Petition ¶ 12.) A copy of the
award is not attached directly to the petition, but is attached to the Nazarian
Declaration as Exhibit D. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 1288 provides:   
 
A petition to confirm an award shall be
served and filed not later than four years after the date of service of a
signed copy of the award on the petitioner. A petition to vacate an award or to
correct an award shall be served and filed not later than 100 days after the
date of the service of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner.
 
However, “[n]o petition may be served and filed under this
chapter until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the award
upon the petitioner.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1290.4.) The proof of service on the
Final Award states that it was served on counsel for all parties on May 16,
2023. (Nazarian Decl. Exh. D.) This petition was filed on July 3, 2023. Thus, the
petition was timely filed. 
 
//
 
//
Legal Standard
 
Any party
to an arbitration award may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate
the award. (Code Civ. Proc § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this
chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as
made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance
with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates
the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1286 (bold emphasis
added).) Under California law, an arbitration award may be vacated only
under the following limited circumstances:
 
(1) The award was procured by
corruption, fraud or other undue means.
(2) There was corruption in any of the
arbitrators.
(3) The rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator.
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their
powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the
decision upon the controversy submitted.
(5) The rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the
hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefore or by the refusal of the
arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy or by conduct of the
arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title.
(6) An arbitrator making the award
either: (A) failed to disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground
for disqualification of which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was subject
to disqualification upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon
receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that
provision. . . .
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2(a).)
 
Other than these statutory grounds, arbitration awards are
immune from judicial review in proceedings to challenge or enforce the award. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 12-13.) Under California law,
errors of fact or law do not mean that an arbitrator has “exceeded” his powers.
(Id. at 28.)
 
Challenge to Arbitration Award
 
            Defendant
opposes confirmation of the arbitration award for the same reason that
Defendant has separately petitioned to vacate the award: that the arbitrator
exceeded his authority under the arbitration agreement by misapplying
California law. As set forth in the arbitration award, the arbitrator found that
Plaintiff had established a failure to engage in the interactive process, but failed
to show that a reasonable accommodation was available. (See Nazarian Decl. Exh.
D. pp. 5-7.) Defendant contends that under the arbitration agreement the
arbitrator was bound to apply substantive California law. (See Nazarian Decl.
Exh. A. p. 8.) According to Defendant, the arbitrator violated this requirement
by adopting the holding of Wysinger v. Automobile Club of Southern
California (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 413, 424–425, which states that a finding
of no reasonable accommodation “is not inconsistent” with a finding of
liability for refusal to engage in the interactive process, and by justifying
that decision on the basis of the arbitrator’s inherent power to decide on
principles of equity. (Hightower v. Superior Court (O’Dowd) (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1415, 1432.) 
 
            Despite how
Defendant portrays these claims, Defendant’s challenge to the arbitration award
is not based on a violation of the arbitrator’s authority, but on claimed errors
in the arbitrator’s application of California law. As our Supreme Court has
expressly stated, this is not a basis to vacate an arbitration award. (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 28; see also Moshonov v. Walsh (2000) 22 Cal.
4th 771, 775 [the Moncharsh Court “rejected the view that a court may
vacate or correct the award because of the arbitrator’s legal or factual error,
even an error appearing on the face of the award”].) The Court therefore finds
that the arbitrator did not exceed his authority under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1286.2(a)(4). 
 
Conclusion
 
            As
Plaintiff has complied with the procedural requirements for a petition to
confirm an arbitration award, and the Court has rejected Defendant’s challenge
to the arbitration award, Plaintiff’s Petition to Confirm the Arbitration Award
is GRANTED.
 
Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award
 
            Defendant
petitions to vacate the arbitration award. For the reasons stated above in
connection with the petition to confirm the arbitration award, Defendant’s
petition is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Petition to Confirm the Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s
Petition to Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 15, 2023                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.