  Case Number:  19STCV42457    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 15, 2023                TRIAL DATE: January
16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Kimberly Clayborn v. Alexander Marmureaneau,
M.D.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV42457            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Alexander R. Marmureaneau, M.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Kimberly
Clayborn
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/26/19: Complaint filed.
·        
07/06/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
02/24/21: Second Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a medical malpractice action. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed to adhere to the standard of care while performing cardiac surgery on
Plaintiff in October of 2018. 
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment
on Plaintiff’s claim for professional negligence.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Evidentiary
Objection to Declaration of Omeed Warej, M.D.
 
            Defendant offers several evidentiary
objections to various documents filed by Plaintiff. The Court rules on these
objections as follows:
 
1.      Declaration of Omeed Warej, M.D.
 
            Objection
No. 1 (Entire Declaration): SUSTAINED as lacking foundation. Dr. Warej does not specify which records were reviewed which is
necessary to establish the evidentiary basis for any expert testimony. (See Property
California SCJLW One Corp. v. Leamy (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1155, 1163.)  Further, in his deposition, Dr. Warej
testified that he did not review the medical records from the surgery at issue
in this case. (Exh. A, 47:18-20.)
 
            Objection No. 2 (¶ 8): SUSTAINED as lacking foundation.  While his statement of qualifications as a
cardiologist may establish Dr. Warej as a medical expert with respect to the standard
of care with respect to cardiological treatment and procedures, it does not
provide a basis for his expert opinion on the standard of care with respect to
the surgery performed by Defendant, who is a cardiothoracic surgeon.  Dr. Warej has not performed cardiac surgery
at all, much less the heart surgery at issue in this case.  Accordingly, the Court finds he is not
qualified to offer opinions on the standard of care for cardiothoracic surgeons
performing cardiac surgery, like the one performed on Plaintiff, nor to opine
on whether Defendant’s alleged malpractice caused any injury to Plaintiff.  
 
            Objection No. 3 (¶ 11): SUSTAINED as lacking foundation and an
improper legal conclusion. 
 
            Objection Nos. 4-5 (¶ 13a-b): SUSTAINED as irrelevant, lacking foundation
and an improper legal/medical conclusion.  
 
            Objection Nos. 6-7 (¶ 13i-j): SUSTAINED as lacking foundation, speculative,
and an improper legal/medical conclusion. 

 
2.      Declaration of Plaintiff Kimberly Clayborn
 
Objection Nos. 1-2 (¶¶ 12, 14): SUSTAINED as irrelevant. The issues as
framed in the Second Amended Complaint are whether Defendant performed heart
valve replacement surgery within the standard of medical care. (SAC ¶ 34.)
 
Objection No. 3-4 (¶¶ 24, 28). SUSTAINED as improper expert testimony by a
lay witness and as to Paragraph 28, also provides hearsay statements of
Plaintiff’s physicians.
 
Objection Nos. 5-7 (¶¶ 29-31). SUSTAINED as irrelevant. The issues as
framed in the Second Amended Complaint are whether Defendant performed heart
valve replacement surgery within the standard of medical care. (SAC ¶ 34.)
 
Objection Nos. 8-12 (¶¶ 32-36). SUSTAINED as improper expert testimony by a
lay witness.
 
3.      Deposition Testimony of Dr. Warej
 
Objection
No. 1 (Entire Exhibit): SUSTAINED
as lacking authentication. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Defective Separate Statement
 
            Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Material Fact as improper. Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
of Material Fact rests entirely on bulk citations to Plaintiff’s Exhibits 1, 2,
and 3, which constitute the entirety of Plaintiff’s evidentiary production in
opposition. In a separate statement, “[c]itation to the evidence in support of
the position that a fact is controverted must include reference to the exhibit,
title, page, and line numbers.” (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1350(f)(3).) “The separate statement serves two important functions in
a summary judgment proceeding:  It notifies the parties which material
facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious vehicle
permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.”  (Collins
v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 74.) A bulk citation
that is little more than a vague gesture toward the entire opposition does not
serve either of these objectives. Plaintiff’s Separate Statement is not
compliant, and the Court would be within its discretion to disregard the
Separate Statement in its entirety. Even if the Court were to consider the
Separate Statement, it would be to no effect, as Plaintiff’s evidence is
deficient or otherwise inadmissible in multiple respects for the reasons stated
above. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment
on the sole cause of action for medical negligence in the operative Second
Amended Complaint. 
 
The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty
to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection
between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or
damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) In a medical
negligence action, the standard of care is a matter that must be established by
expert testimony. (See Howard v. Owens Corning (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th
621, 632-33.) The causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
injury is similarly a matter of expert testimony, and that testimony must
establish that the injury was more likely than not the result of medical
negligence. (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s
claim for medical malpractice is without merit because Plaintiff cannot
establish either that Defendant’s conduct in performing mitral valve
replacement surgery breached the standard of care for a cardiothoracic surgeon
or that any such breach was the proximate cause of her injuries. The Second
Amended Complaint alleges that Defendant breached the standard of care by
improperly performing mitral valve replacement surgery on Plaintiff on October
11, 2018. (SAC ¶ 16.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant improperly installed
the replacement valve, causing the valve to leak, and sewing Plaintiff’s left
circumflex coronary artery closed. (SAC ¶ 29.) Defendant offers the expert
testimony of Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., a practicing cardiothoracic surgeon who
opines, based on his review of Plaintiff’s medical records and the parties’
depositions, that post-operative mitral valve leak is a well-known complication
that does not indicate substandard care. (SSUMF Issue 1 No. 19.) Dr. Khoynezhad
also states that Defendant could not have sewn Plaintiff’s left circumflex
artery shut during the procedure because Plaintiff showed no evidence of a
myocardial infarction at the end of the procedure, which would have occurred
had the artery been sutured shut. (SSUMF Issue 1 No. 23.) Moreover, Defendant’s
expert states that Plaintiff could not have had a cardiac catheterization
procedure through the artery in August 2022 had the artery been sutured closed.
(SSUMF Issue 1 Nos. 14, 23.) For those reasons, Dr. Khoynezhad states that Defendant’s
treatment of Plaintiff was not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
injuries. (SSUMF Issue 2 Nos. 18-23.) Defendant has thus offered expert
testimony tending to show that Defendant did not breach the standard of care
nor cause Plaintiff’s injuries. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a triable issue of fact as to these questions. 
 
            Although Plaintiff purports to offer
expert testimony in opposition demonstrating a triable issue of fact about
whether Defendant breached the standard of care and caused Plaintiff’s
injuries, the evidence presented is insufficient to carry Plaintiff’s burden. Plaintiff’s
separate statement does not set forth the specific pieces of evidence on which
the claimed disputed material facts are based. The golden rule of
summary adjudication is “if it is not set forth in the separate statement, it
does not exist.” (United Community Church v. Garcin (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337 [italics in original].) Moreover, for the reasons stated above, Plaintiff’s expert testimony and
partial deposition from Dr. Warej are not admissible, as Dr. Warej’s
declaration lacks foundation and the deposition transcript is not
authenticated. Even if the Court considered this evidence, the Warej
Declaration is of no value because it lacks evidentiary support. As to the
deposition transcript, the only testimony provided is a statement that Dr.
Warej believes that “there was some kind of mechanical impingement of the left
circumflex artery at the time of the operation.” (Plaintiff’s Exh. 3 96:19-97:22.)
Dr. Warej did not state that this mechanical impingement was caused by
Defendant sewing the artery shut, nor did he state that the artery was occluded
because of medical negligence, despite being directly asked that precise question.
(Id. p. 96:9-10.) 
 
It is not sufficient to argue that a harmful event occurred during the
valve replacement surgery.  Instead, the
plaintiff in a medical malpractice case must demonstrate both that malpractice
occurred and that the demonstrated malpractice caused the plaintiff’s injury to
“a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.”  (Jones v. Ortho Pharm. Corp. (1985)
163 Cal. App. 3d 396, 402.) Plaintiff has failed to do so, and therefore has
failed to establish a triable issue of fact. 
 
            As Plaintiff has failed to establish
a triable issue of fact as to Defendant’s medical negligence or a causal
connection to Plaintiff’s injury, Defendant is entitled to summary judgment. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 15,
2023                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 