  Case Number:  22NWCV00913    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  C LOPEZ v. SUBWAY
RESTAURANTS, LLC
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00913
HEARING:  05/23/24
 
#3
 
Defendants EAT FRESH, LLC and SUBWAY RESTAURANTS, LLC’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED.  
 
Opposing Party to Give notice. 
 
This product liability action was filed by Plaintiff KARINA
LOPEZ (“Plaintiff”) on September 8, 2022. On October 31, 2023, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following, relevant facts: “On May 31,
2021, Plaintiff, a pregnant young woman, was dining inside Defendants’
PREMISES, and unbeknownst to Plaintiff, one of the chairs inside Defendants’
PREMISES was defective, and as Plaintiff sat down on one of those chairs, the
(‘CHAIR’) ‘collapsed’ and as a result Plaintiff fell onto the hard floor.
Plaintiff was injured as a result of the traumatic incident.” (FAC ¶11.)  Defendant Foldcraft Co. manufactured the
chair.  
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Strict
Products Liability; 
(2) Breach
of Express and Implied Warranties; 
(3) Negligence
based on Defective Product; 
(4) Negligence
and Premises Liability; and 
(5) Negligence
Based on Violation of OSHA Regulations
 
Defendants EAT FRESH, LLC and SUBWAY RESTAURANTS, LLC
(collectively “Defendants”) move to strike Plaintiff’s claims for punitive
damages and all language related thereto. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that punitive damages are
permissible because Plaintiff has adequately alleged malice. 
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
Punitive damages must be pled
with specificity. Plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the
defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious. (Smith v. Sup.
Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-42.) For corporations, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Cal. Civ. Code §3294(b).) 
 
 “In a personal injury action the notion of
conscious disregard of the safety of others logically may be substituted for
that of disregard of the rights of others… [C]onscious disregard of safety as
an appropriate description of the animus malus which may justify an exemplary
damage award when nondeliberate injury is alleged.” (G.D. Searle & Co.
v. Sup. Ct. (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)  Here, Plaintiff adequately alleges the
following facts: “Foldcraft was aware of the probable consequences of keeping
its chairs in Subways for more than 7 years. They relayed this information to
Subway through literature provided with the chair. Foldcraft was also aware of
at least 50 occurrences of its chars breaking throughout various Subways
throughout the country. Therefore, Subway was also aware of the consequences of
keeping its chair its restaurants to be used by customers. Therefore, punitive
damages against both FOLDCRAFT CO…. and EAT FRESH, LLC… and SUBWAY RESTAURANTS
is warranted.” (FAC ¶20.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were on notice of
the “life of the chairs” and still failed to replace or inspect the chairs in
their restaurant, which constitutes a conscious disregard for safety. (FAC
¶18.) The motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. The FAC pleads sufficient
facts to support a recovery of punitive damages at this stage in a litigation.
 
 
 
 
 
 