 Case Number:  23AHCV02434    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerMoving Party: Defendants Pasadena Eye Medical Group; David Yu Responding Party: Plaintiff Samuel TaylorTentative Ruling: OverruleBACKGROUND This is a products liability and negligence suit arising from medical services Plaintiff received from Defendants and subsequent purchase of allegedly defective eyeglasses. Plaintiff received healthcare services from Defendant David Yu, M.D., who provided medical treatment for his eyes, evaluated his vision, and wrote a prescription for Plaintiff to use in purchasing eyeglasses. Plaintiff then purchased eyeglasses from a vendor located within Defendant Dr. Yu’s medical office. Plaintiff sued Defendants, alleging the eyeglasses were defective and made his vision worse.MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argues Plaintiff’s second cause of action for general negligence fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because to the extent the alleged negligence by moving Defendants occurred during the course and scope of the provision of medical services, amounting to a claim for professional negligence, not general negligence. Defendants also argue Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action for strict products liability and breach of warranty fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because Defendants provide medical services and are not vendors of goods.OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues Defendants are subject to liability for product defects under negligence theory of liability, that the complaint properly states a cause of action for breach of warranty against Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiff requests leave to amend his complaint to state a cause of action for strict product liability against the manufacturer of the defective eyeglasses if Defendants did not manufacture the eyeglasses.ANALYSIS I. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.)A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  Parties may also demur to causes of action individually.  In either case, the procedure is also called a ‘demurrer for sufficiency,’ and it tests the pleading by itself, alone and disconnected from extraneous matters.  (Hahn at p. 747.) A. Second Cause of Action (General Negligence)Plaintiff’s second cause of action for general negligence alleges that Defendants breached their duty of care to him by reversing the prescription in the eyeglasses he purchased, causing impairment of his vision and subsequent general and special damages. (Comp., ¶¶ 27-32.)  On its face, Plaintiff’s second cause of action strongly parallels Plaintiff’s first cause of action for medical negligence—alleging Defendants reversed his prescription in the eyeglasses he purchased. However, Plaintiff’s pleadings are not constrained to the same set of facts as his professional negligence claim. Namely, the Complaint states a cause of action against Defendants for negligence in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of a defective product. Namely, the potential that Defendants negligently manufactured Plaintiff’s eyeglasses pertain to conduct outside of the provision of medical services to Plaintiff.Defendants’ reliance on the Supreme Court decision in Flowers is misplaced. While the Court rejected the assertion of two types of negligence claims against a health care provider based on the same facts, the facts in Flowers are strongly distinguishable from this case. (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992.) In Flowers, the plaintiff brought a negligence action against a hospital and a nurse for damages arising from a fall from a hospital gurney; the Court found that it was error to find the pleadings broad enough to state a cause of action for ordinary negligence as well as professional negligence. (Id.). However, Flowers considers a set of conduct and duties where ordinary negligence could not apply. Unlike in Flowers Plaintiff’s pleadings can pertain to conduct outside the strict medical services he received and instead relate to relationship to Defendants as vendors or manufacturers of the eyeglasses as a product. B. Third and Fourth Causes of Action (Strict Products Liability, Breach of Warranty)In his third cause of action for strict products liability, Plaintiff alleges that he purchased corrective lenses from Defendants that were to be designed, manufactured and sold in accordance with the prescription of his health care provider, Dr. Yu, which were suitable to correct his vision. (Comp., ¶ 35.) The fourth cause of action for breach of warranty alleges that Defendants, by being involved in the business of selling eyeglasses and corrective lenses to consumers, expressly and impliedly warranted to plaintiff that the corrective lenses he purchased from Medical Center would comply with the orders and prescription of his physician. (Comp., ¶¶ 42-43.)Here, Defendants assert a demurrer is proper because Defendants are medical providers exempted from strict products liability. Defendants cite to several authorities demonstrating this principle, including Hector v. Cedars–Sinai Medical Center (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 493, 506– 507, where the court found a hospital could not be held strictly liable for defects in a pacemaker it purchased and implanted in a patient because “[a]s a provider of services rather than a seller of a product, the hospital is not subject to strict liability for a defective product provided to the patient during the course of his or her treatment.” (Id. at p. 504, 225; see also Silverhart v. Mount Zion Hospital (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 1022, 1028 (hospital supplying needle that broke during surgery cannot be held strictly liable); Murphy v. E.R. Squibb & Sons, Inc. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 672, 221 (pharmacist cannot be held strictly liable for filling prescription of defective drug).) However, all of Defendants’ cited authorities pertain to medical providers who use defective products manufactured by third parties, whereas Plaintiff here alleges that Defendants are liable for the manufacture and sale of the product as a vendor in a much more traditional sense. While Defendants claim to not be in the business of selling eyeglasses, the Court is limited to the allegations in the complaint.  Here, Plaintiff contends that Defendants in the stream of commerce and based on those allegations Plaintiff states a cause of action for strict liability and breach of warranty.  RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.