 Case Number:  24NNCV01677    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T Special Motion to Strike under CCP Section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP)Moving Party: Plaintiff Gabriela Cabrera  Responding Party: Defendant Oak and Fort CaliforniaTentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUND This case arises out of Plaintiff’s visit to Defendant’s store on December 23, 2023, where she encountered a sales counter that was too high and, with difficulty, made a purchase at the high sales counter. Plaintiff is paraplegic due to polio and relies on a wheelchair to ambulate. She then filed this action to remedy the situation as provided by the Unruh Civil Rights Act. Defendant cross-complained, alleging four causes of action for fraud, negligent misrepresentation, civil abuse of process, and attempted extortion.MOVING PARTY POSITION Plaintiff argues the Court should grant the Special Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint filed by Defendant as it is improper and retaliatory; accordingly, Plaintiff asserts it must be stricken. Plaintiff seeks her fees and costs incurred for filing the motion. Based on a hourly rates ranging from $550.00 to $600.00, Plaintiff argues she has incurred at least $11,100 in expenses not including time that will be spent on preparing a reply brief and preparing for and arguing the motion. Plaintiff’s counsel attests to spending 2 hours reviewing and revising this motion and supporting documents, and estimates preparing a reply brief will require 5 hours and preparing for and arguing the motion will require 3 hours, resulting in another $4,400 in fees. Plaintiff thus seeks fees and costs of $15,500. (Declaration Of Tristan P. Jankowski)OPPOSITION Defendant does not oppose the court’s dismissal of this cross complaint. Defendant instead opposes the amount of attorney fees claimed to be excessive by seeking over $15,000.00 in expenses. Defendant agrees to the motion to strike and requests the Court carefully evaluate and potentially reduce the attorney fees sought to ensure they are reasonable or to deny them outright, “especially given that the complaint has no merit and is frivolous.” (Defendant Response, p. 5.)REPLYPlaintiff argues that Defendant’s admission that Litigation Privilege applies in this case requires granting Plaintiff’s motion. Plaintiff also disputes the factual allegations and arguments made by Defendant.Plaintiff additionally asserts that attorney fees are mandatory in this instance and that $17,900.00 is a reasonable and mandatory fee.ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits written objections to the Declarations of Daniel Ray Bacon and Bassam Altwal offered by Defendant in submitted in opposition to this motion to strike. Sustained: Nos. 1 (foundation; personal knowledge); 5 (irrelevant); 6 (irrelevant); 10-11 (irrelevant). Overruled: Nos. 2-4, 7-9, 12-13. II. Anti-SLAPP Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits the court to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.¿¿¿ “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.  It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Id. at 384.)¿ “Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps.  First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16.  If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”  (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.)  The California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’  The court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.  Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.  It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.  ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”  (Id. at 384-385 [citations omitted].)¿ A.  Protected ActivityPlaintiff asserts Defendant’s causes of action arises from Plaintiff’s own protected activities in bringing a complaint against Defendant for having an inaccessible sales counter under the Unruh Act.  The subjective intent of a party in filing a complaint is irrelevant in determining whether it falls within the ambit of CCP § 425.16. It is not necessary for a court to inquire into plaintiff's subjective motivations before it may determine whether the anti-SLAPP statute is applicable. (Damon v. Ocean Hills Journalism Club (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 468, 480 .) Here, it is clear Plaintiff, by filing her complaint, engaged in protected activity, which constitutes a “written or oral statement or writing made before a ... judicial proceeding....” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(1); Contemporary Services Corp. v. Staff Pro Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055 (“Defendants’ act of filing the complaint [for abuse of process] in the underlying action squarely falls within section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1)”)). Filing a lawsuit is an act in furtherance of the constitutional right of petition, regardless of whether it has merit. See, e.g., Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 90.)Moreover, Defendant’s complaint clearly targets Plaintiff’s protected activity, as it exclusively relies on Plaintiff’s complaint in its causes of action — alleging Plaintiff engaged in fraud by allegedly making false representations in the lawsuit against Defendant. (Cross-Compl. ¿ 25.) Because Defendant cannot show a likelihood of success because Plaintiff benefits from Litigation Privilege, Defendant’s request for a continuance is DENIED.B. Likelihood of Success on the MeritsTo meet this prong, Plaintiff must demonstrate a prima facie showing of a reasonable probability of prevailing on the claims.  Here it is clear that Defendant cannot meet its burden of demonstrating a likelihood that it would prevail both under the Litigation Privilege as well as on the merits for any causes of action in the cross-complaint. At the outset, all four causes of action are barred by the litigation privilege. (Cal. Civ. Code § 47(b).) The privilege “applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Silberg v. Anderson, 50 Ca1.3d 205, 212 (1990).) In addition to pleadings being privileged communications, “[t]he privilege ‘is not limited to statements made during a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.’” (Action Apartment Ass'n, Inc. v. City of Santa Monica,41 Ca1.4th 1232, 1241 (2007); see Rusheen v. Cohen, 37 Ca1.4th 1048, 1058 (2006).) As a result, and as a matter of law, Plaintiff is protected under the Litigation Privilege and Defendant cannot even make a prima facie case against on its causes of action. Indeed, Defendant does not dispute that the privilege can be claimed in this instance. (Defendant Response, p. 5.)Because Defendant agrees that the Litigation Privilege applies and assents to Plaintiff’s motion to strike, the Court need not consider whether the underlying truth or falsity of the allegations made Defendant likely to succeed on the merits.III. SanctionsThe prevailing defendant on the motion to strike is entitled to recover attorney fees and costs. (CCP § 425.16(c).) “[A]ny SLAPP defendant who brings a successful motion to strike is entitled to mandatory attorney fees.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 C4th 1122, 1131.) It is thus clear that the Court must grant reasonable attorney fees to Plaintiff. Plaintiff requests the Court grant $17,900 in attorney’s fees based on the amount of time spent on this motion and the experience of counsel, as well the complexity of the issues presented.Here, Plaintiff provides with some specificity the allocation of work on this case: Attorney Jankowski spent 18 hours researching and preparing this motion and its supporting documents, and 2 hours for attorney Manning to review and revise the motion and its supporting documents. (Jankowski Decl. dated 8/8/24, ¶¶ 2-4.) Attorney Jankowski spent 5 hours drafting a Reply brief and anticipates 3 hours to prepare and argue the motion. (Jankowski Decl. dated 8/29/24, ¶¶ 2-4.) Attorney Cornell spent 4 hours revising a Reply brief and drafting the accompanying objections to evidence. (Cornell Decl. ¶¶ 2-3). Jankowski charges $550 per hour. Manning and Cornell charge $600.00 per hour. The Court finds Plaintiff’s expressed time allotment to be mostly reasonable, given the significant effort and substantial substantive discussion evident in Plaintiff’s motion. However, the Court will reduce Plaintiff’s anticipated 3 hours to prepare and argue this motion to 1.5 hours.However, the Court finds Plaintiff’s attorney fees to be unreasonably high. While the amount of time spent on this motion reflects reasonable effort, the litigation pertaining to this motion is not so complex as to warrant these rates. The Court finds that a blended rate of $500.00 is a reasonable hourly rate for all Plaintiff’s counsel. Applying this rate to the total 30.5 hours worked across Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court finds $15,250.00 to be reasonable.RULING Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to strike is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees is GRANTED in the amount of $15,250.00.