 Case Number:  21STCV12318    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for New Trial Moving Party: Plaintiff Miguel MendozaResponding Party: Defendant City of Los AngelesTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case resulting from a collision between a car and Plaintiff cyclist after the bike lane Plaintiff was on ended, resulting in Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff sued Defendant, who moved for summary judgement based on design immunity and lack of evidence of a concealed trap. The Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgement.MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues a new trial should be granted because the court denied Plaintiff's request for a continuance of the motion for summary judgment to allow for further discovery. Plaintiff also argues there was insufficient evidence to grant summary judgment, and that the decision was contrary to law.OPPOSITIONDefendant argues the Court properly denied plaintiff’s request for continuance and that Plaintiff fails to justify any reason to order a new trial. Defendant further argues Plaintiff’s theory of liability relies on an erroneous legal premise that Plaintiff was barred from riding on the sidewalk and had to ride in the street at the location of the accident and that Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the existence of a concealed trap.REPLYPlaintiff argues that the Court should have continued the summary judgment hearing and can still do so. Additionally, Plaintiff reiterates that the Court should grant a new trial because there were triable issues of material fact.ANALYSISI. Evidentiary ObjectionsObjections to the Declaration of Plaintiff’s expert Brad Avrit.Sustained: 1A through 1J (lack of foundation, improper expert opinion), 4 (hearsay, lack of foundation), 23 - 26 (lack of foundation).  Balance of objections are overruled.II. Motion For New Trial A motion for new trial is a creature of statute; . . .” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co.¿(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 659. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a motion for new trial may be granted if there is any:¿ [¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. [¶] 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages. [¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.¿¿¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 657.)¿¿¿ “A motion for a new trial is appropriate following an order granting summary judgment.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 858.)   In this case, granting a new trial is not appropriate.  With regard to the request for a continuance to complete additional discovery under C.C.P. Section 437c(h), the Court found and continues to find that there was no showing that additional discovery was likely to address the core questions pertaining to design immunity or exceptions to design immunity.  Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial does not provide evidence meaningfully impactful to this critical consideration. Indeed, while Plaintiff asserts he “should not be expected to specifically identify the expected testimony of the witnesses when he has not yet deposed them, or identify the relevance of the future discovery that he has not had a chance to complete, when the delay was not Plaintiffs fault,” Plaintiff still fails to explain what he might hope to reveal in future discovery that might have any bearing on the summary judgment motion.  As a result, Plaintiff has not shown that the Court abused its discretion in denying the request to continue the hearing to complete further discovery.  With regard to whether the Court erroneously found that there was no triable issue of fact as to the existence of a trap or changed conditions, Plaintiff fails to explain how the more detailed argument and supplemental declaration from Brad Avrit are based on newly discovered facts or law.  This failure is fatal to Plaintiff’s motion.  Doe v. United Air Lines, Inc., (2008) 160 Cal. App. 4th 1500, 1506.  However, even after considering the new argument and declaration and even disregarding Defendant’s objections, the Court still finds that there are no triable issues.  Specifically, while the motion for new trial expands on the argument that cyclists traveling along the roadway are involuntarily and unknowingly exposed to an unreasonable risk of harm from traffic due to the termination of the bike lane, this Court previously found and continues to find that, under the facts of this case, there is no evidence to show that the absence of a warning was a substantial factor in this collision.  Additionally, Mr. Avrit’s argument that cyclists are forced to ride on the street because it is illegal to ride on the sidewalk is clearly contradicted by the plain language of Municipal Code Section 56.15.  Likewise, the renewed arguments of changed conditions fail to raise a triable issue as to a loss of design immunity absent a requisite showing that it rendered the existing design unreasonable or inconsistent with state standards.  Weinstein v. California Dept. of Transp. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 52, 60-61.  Here, the Avrit declaration does not raise a triable issue of fact on this issue.RULINGBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a new trial is DENIED.______Motion to Tax CostsMoving Party: Plaintiff Miguel Mendoza Responding Party: Defendant City of Los AngelesTentative Ruling: GRANT IN PARTBACKGROUND In response to having had its motion for summary judgment granted, Defendant City of Los Angeles has filed a memorandum of costs.MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues Defendant's memorandum claims impermissible and/or unreasonable costs. The Plaintiff is requesting that the Court tax the following costs, on the grounds that they are not allowed, or are unreasonable:o #4 Deposition Costs in the amount of $6,243.72. Plaintiff asserts Defendant’s memorandum does not identify the deponents by name, but rather has numbers that do not correspond to anything that the Plaintiff can use to identify the deponents in order to address whether they were reasonable or necessary.o #5 Service of Process Fees in the amount of $3,351.05, payable to Madden Corporation DBA ProCourtier, ProLegal. Plaintiff argues Defendant's verified cost bill for service was insufficient to establish the necessity and reasonableness of the service costs, where memorandum of costs did not state how the subpoenas were served nor did it provide any information to support the reasonableness of the services costs, whether they were served by a registered process server or whether the fees were actually for service of process, as opposed to courier services or vendor-assisted court filing. Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts the fees for August 31, 2021 of $1,289.94 and January 11, 2024 of $650, are unreasonable.o #8: Expert Witness Fees in the amount of $10,250 payable to expert Rock E. Miller.Plaintiff argues that expert witness and regular witness fees cannot both be recovered under statute.OPPOSITIONDefendant argues Plaintiff’s motion should be denied except as to $8,900 in Rock Miller’s expert witness fees, and $650 in ProLegal costs, for which it withdraws its request. Defendant additionally provides a list of deponents and invoices associated with each, claiming it is entitled to recover costs associated with them. (Declaration of Joshua Quinones (“Quinones Decl.”), ¶ 3 and Exhibit A.)Defendant also asserts it is entitled to $2701.05 in service fees, stating it used ProLegal as its legal support service to serve subpoenas for medical records, which the costs are associated with. (Quinones Decl., ¶¶ 5-6 and Exhibit B.) Defendant lastly argues its expert witness, Rock Miller, should be paid for his deposition fees in the amount of $1,600 because Plaintiff’s attorney knows that he is a retained expert who provided a declaration in support of the City’s Motion for Summary Judgment (Quinones Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)REPLYPlaintiff did not file a reply.ANALYSISCCP Section 1032 provides that a prevailing party may recover their costs. (CCP § 1032.) CCP Section 1033.5(a) itemizes allowable costs; CCP Section 1033.5(b) itemizes costs that are not allowed. Subsection (c) provides that costs shall be necessary to the litigation and reasonable in amount, and that items of cost not mentioned in the statute are recoverable in the court’s discretion.  “If items on a memorandum of costs appear to be proper charges on their face, those items are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services are proper and necessarily incurred. [citations.] The burden then shifts to the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675, 693.) “In ruling upon a motion to tax costs, the trial court's first determination is whether the statute expressly allows the particular item and whether it appears proper on its face. ‘If so, the burden is on the objecting party to show [the costs] to be unnecessary or unreasonable.’ [citation.] (Foothill-De Anza Community College Dist. v. Emerich (2007 ) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 29.)   “[T]he mere filing of a motion to tax costs may be a ‘proper objection’ to an item, the necessity of which appears doubtful, or which does not appear to be proper on its face. [citation.] However, ‘[i]f the items appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the defendant [citations], and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].’ ” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131.)I. Deposition Costs Defendant is entitled to recover reasonable and necessary costs associated with depositions. As a result, Defendant’s cost memorandum identifies each deposition, and the cost associated with it. Defendant provided a list of deponents as well as invoices associated with their deposition. (“Quinones Decl.”), ¶ 3 and Exhibit A.)  As a result, Defendant is entitled to recover costs for these depositions. II. Service of Process FeesDefendant's memorandum of costs fails to state how the subpoenas were served, and thus fails to establish whether the costs are reasonable or necessary. Nelson v. Anderson is instructive here, as the court found a prevailing party’s memorandum of costs, by failing to state how the subpoenas were served, made it impossible to determine from the face of the cost bill whether the items are proper. The court therefore found the verified cost bill was insufficient, and that the prevailing party had the burden to establish the necessity and reasonableness of the service costs—but failed to do so. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 132, as modified on denial of reh'g (June 14, 1999).) Here, Defendant provides information and explanation as to the service of process costs and their purposes — namely that Defendant used ProLegal to serve subpoenas for medical records, which the costs are associated with. (Quinones Decl., ¶¶ 5-6 and Exhibit B.) Defendant is therefore entitled to recover for these expenses in the amount of $2,701.05.III. Expert Witness FeesDefendant withdraws its request for costs for Rock Miller’s services in the amount of $8,900. (Opposition p. 4.) However Defendant maintains that Plaintiff must pay $1,600 for Plaintiff’s deposition of Rock Miller because he is a retained expert deposed pursuant to St. Mary Medical Center v. Superior Court in connection with the declaration he provided in support of Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  Under St. Mary Medical Center v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531, depositions of expert witnesses who provide declarations in support of motions for summary judgment are expressly permitted. Moreover, the party deposing an expert witness is required to pay the expert witness’ fee. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.450.) Plaintiff must therefore pay Rock Miller in the amount of $1,600 for Mr. Miller’s fees incurred in relation to his deposition of September 27, 2023.RULINGPlaintiff’s motion to tax costs if GRANTED IN PART. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion with respect to $1,600 for Mr. Miller’s fees, $2,701.05 in service of process fees, and $6,243.72 in deposition costs.