 Case Number:  21STCV24930    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Deem Request for Admissions AdmittedMoving Party: Plaintiff Jack Melkonian Responding Party: Defendant Management Towing, Inc.Tentative Ruling: Grant in partBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising out of a collision on July 11, 2019.  This case has been pending since 2021.  Plaintiff served Defendant Management Towing Inc. dba Rowlett Towing (“Defendant”) Requests for Admission on October 20, 2023. Plaintiff has yet to receive responses.  MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should Deem Request for Admissions Admitted because Plaintiff has received no response to these Requests for Admission to date from either Defendant or Pasco, and that Defendants’ failure to respond to Plaintiff’s correspondences constitute a misuse of the discovery process. Based on a $300.00 hourly rate, Plaintiff requests $3,133.75 in sanctions relating to this motion, including ten hours of work ($3,000.00) in addition to $133.75 in additional fees. OPPOSITIONDefendant argues the Motion must be denied because it has fatal defects and verified and Code-compliant responses will have been served by the time of the hearing on this motion. Moreover, Defendant argues it provided an explanation of “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” resulting in the failure to serve a timely response.  REPLYPlaintiff argues Defendant’s opposition admits they were served with requests for admission while represented by WOLFE & WYMAN LLP and that no sufficient excuse for Defendant’s failure to respond has been proffered.ANALYSISI.  Motion to Deem Requests for Admission AdmittedWhere there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).) CCP § 2033.280(c) states, in relevant part: “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.If a party to whom requests for production of documents were directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2031.300(b)-(c).) CCP § 2031.300 contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. The propounding party need not demonstrate good cause or satisfy a meet-and-confer requirement – all that needs to be shown in the moving papers is that a set of requests for production of documents was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-04.Here, Defendant Management Towing Inc. dba Rowlett Towing (“Defendant”) fails to provide an adequate explanation for its delay in providing responses to Plaintiff. Defendant asserts that its former counsel Wolfe & Wyman LLP had filed a successful Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel as to Pasco in October 2023 and that Defendant’s new counsel first noticed the overdue discovery request with Plaintiff’s filing of this motion. Merely changing counsel is not sufficient explanation as to why Defendant’s counsel—both former and current—failed to respond to Plaintiff’s requests. Thus, provided Defendant does not submit responses by the date this motion is heard, the Court will grant Plaintiff’s request to deem requests for admission as admitted.The Court declines to grant Plaintiff’s motion with respect to Defendant Pasco, as Plaintiff has not provided the Court with the Requests for Admissions.II. SanctionsBased on a $300.00 hourly rate, Plaintiff requests $3,133.75 in sanctions relating to this motion, including ten hours of work ($3,000.00) in addition to $133.75 in additional fees. The Court finds Plaintiff’s hourly rate reasonable, whereas the number of hours worked is not as this is not a complicated motion.  The Court finds it reasonable to reduce the number of hours to 3.5.  Accordingly, sanctions in the amount of $1,050, plus a filing fee of $60, are awarded.  RULINGPlaintiff’s motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted is GRANTED with respect to Defendant Management Towing Inc. dba Rowlett Towing.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Defendant is GRANTED in the amount of $1,110.  Sanctions to be paid within 30 days of Plaintiff giving notice of this ruling.Plaintiff’s motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted with respect to Defendant Pasco is DENIED.