  Case Number:  22PSCV00991    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Steve  Sayegh, et al. v. Ford Motor Company  Motion  of Defendant Ford Motor Company to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion to compel  arbitration and stay action. The Court further lifts its stay issued on December  22, 2022.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a lemon law case. On September 2, 2022, plaintiffs Steve  Sayegh and Marissa Martinez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action  against defendant Ford Motor Company (Defendant) and Does 1 through 20, alleging  causes of action for breach of implied warranty of merchantability, breach of  express warranty, and fraudulent concealment.  On November 16, 2022, Defendant filed a motion to compel  arbitration and stay proceedings. On March 14, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the  motion. On March 22, 2023, Defendant replied. On April 12, 2023, the Court  ordered the parties to provide further briefing on this motion. On April 28,  2023, Defendant filed a supplemental brief. On May 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to the supplemental brief. On May 17, 2023, Defendant filed a supplemental  reply brief.  LEGAL  STANDARD              Parties may be  compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a  valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers  the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute. (Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v. Southern  California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].)  OBJECTIONS             The Court OVERRULES  Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection, as the normal rules of document  authentication and foundation do not apply on a motion to compel arbitration. (Gamboa  v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice only  as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other  specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the  factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta  (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION FAA v. CAA             “[T]he FAA’s procedural provisions (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not  apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause expressly  incorporating them. [Citation.] … [T]he question is not whether the parties  adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes (§§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default because Congress intended the  comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) to apply in federal court.  The question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345, italics in original.)            “[P]revious cases have held that when  an arbitration agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California  law, the California Arbitration Act (CAA) governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’  shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion to compel  arbitration.” (Victrola 89, LLC, supra, 46  Cal.App.5th at p. 346.)              The Lease  Agreement (as defined below) states that the law of the state where the Lessor’s  place of business is as set forth in the lease applies to the Lease Agreement.  (Ihara Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 37.) The Lease Agreement states that the Lessor’s place  of business is in California. (Ihara Decl., Ex. 1, p. 1 of 7.) Thus, California  law applies. The Arbitration Agreement (as defined below) states only that the contract  is subject to the FAA. (Ihara Decl., Ex. 1.) It does not state that its  enforcement is governed by the FAA. (Victrola 89, LLC, supra, 46  Cal.App.5th at p. 346.) Therefore, the CAA governs this motion to compel  arbitration. (Id. at p. 345.)  Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement “[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a  preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,  413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to  enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory  defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of  producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact  necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial  burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a  copy to the motion. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.)  Defendant attached a copy of a California Motor Vehicle Lease  Agreement (the Lease Agreement) for the subject vehicle to its moving papers. (Ihara  Decl., Ex. 1.) That agreement also contains an arbitration clause (the  Arbitration Agreement). (Id.) Accordingly, Ford has met its initial  burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to challenge the validity of the  Arbitration Agreement.  Plaintiffs do not directly dispute the validity or existence of  the Arbitration Agreement. The extent of Plaintiffs’ opposition to the  existence or validity of the Arbitration Agreement was based on evidentiary  objections, which the Court overruled as noted above. These evidentiary  objections are insufficient on a motion to compel arbitration because the  normal procedures for foundation and document authentication do not apply on a  motion to compel arbitration. (See Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p.  165.) Plaintiffs provided no declarations in their opposition or supplemental opposition  disputing the existence or validity of the Arbitration Agreement. (See Id.)  The Court also notes that the Arbitration Agreement looks similar, if not  identical, to that contained in the contract attached to Plaintiffs’ complaint.  (Compl., Ex. 1.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant satisfied  its burden of establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement. However,  there still remains the question of whether Defendant has the right to enforce  the Arbitration Agreement, as Defendant is not a party to the Lease Agreement.  (See Ihara Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendant contends it is entitled to enforce the  Arbitration Agreement based on equitable estoppel and as a third-party  beneficiary.  Equitable Estoppel Defendant concedes that it is not a party to the Arbitration  Agreement, but contends instead that it is entitled to enforce the Arbitration  Agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Defendant relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, arguing that  Plaintiff’s claims arise out of and are intertwined with the underlying  contract obligations of the Lease Agreement. (Id. at p. 495; Boucher  v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 271, [“[U]nder  both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may  invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its  claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately  founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”]; Goldman  v. KPMG LLP  (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th  209, 217-218.)  In Felisilda, the First  District of the Court of Appeal found that purchasers of a vehicle were  estopped from refusing to arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims against the vehicle  manufacturer, based on an agreement between the purchaser and the vehicle  dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-499.) The  relevant portions of the subject arbitration agreement in Felisilda are similar to those in the Lease  Agreement:  ARBITRATION  PROVISION [¶] ... [¶] 1. EITHER YOU  OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT  IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. . . . Any claim or  dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the  interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability  of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,  successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to ... condition  of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship  (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this  contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding  arbitration and not by a court action. . .  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490, emphasis in  original.)   The Court of  Appeal in Felisilda found that because the plaintiffs  “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the  vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they  are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the  manufacturer].” (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 497.) As such,  the Court of Appeal found the plaintiffs’ claims in that action arose out of  the condition of the vehicle and were covered by the arbitration provision in  that contract. The Court of Appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims were  “founded on or intimately connected” with the contract in that action because  they arose out of the condition of the vehicle.   However, on  April 4, 2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal rejected application  of Felisilda in a similar motion to compel  arbitration by a car manufacturer in a lemon law case. (Ford Motor Warranty  Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal. App. 4th 1324, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611 (“Ochoa”).  The Court is aware that Ochoa is currently pending review before the  California Supreme Court, but this Court is permitted to rely on Ochoa while  its review is pending. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(3); Ford  Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 532 P.3d 270; Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v.  Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)  Moreover, on June 26,  2023, the Second District of the Court of Appeal decided the case of Montemayor  v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, in which the Court of Appeal  also rejected the holding in Felisilda that equitable estoppel applies  to enable a non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a  sales contract similar to the Lease Agreement at issue in this case. The Court  of Appeal further rejected Felisilda and followed Ochoa in other  recently issued opinions, such as Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94  Cal.App.5th 614 and Jaclyn Yeh v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County  (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 264. The Court finds these additional opinions from the Court  of Appeal to be persuasive evidence that Ochoa is the better reasoned  decision here.  The Second District in Ochoa found that the arbitration  language at issue in that case was insufficient to support the manufacturer’s  equitable estoppel argument, stating that the breach of warranty claims were  not based on the sales contracts with the dealers, but were completely  independent from the terms of the sales contract. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) The  Court of Appeal held that this language in the arbitration clause referring to  arbitration of claims “against third party nonsignatories” cannot mandate  arbitration of the warranty claims. Rather, such language agreed to  arbitrate claims against third parties whose service, etc., are financed under  the sales contract. (Id.)  The Second District also found that the warranty claims were not  founded in the sales contracts. The warranty claims arose out of statutory  obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to  repair in accordance with the warranty or related claims. They did not  arise out of any express contractual language in the sales contracts, which  themselves do not include any warranties, or assurance regarding the vehicle’s  performance, or any promise of repairs or remedies if contracts arise. “To  the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on the part of the  dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle  that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.” (Ochoa, supra, 89  Cal.App.5th at p. 1335.) In short, “the substantive terms of the sale contracts  relate to sale and financing and nothing more.” (Ibid.)  The Court finds the same rationale and reasoning applies here. The  purpose of the Lease Agreement was the financing of Plaintiffs’ lease of the  subject vehicle. The Lease Agreement specifically notes that the warranties at  issue are from Defendant, not the third-party dealer, the finance company, or  the holder, (see Ihara Decl., Ex. 1), and arise under operation of law, not  contract, (see Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334). Thus, the  warranties were not inextricably intertwined with or founded in the Lease  Agreement for purposes of equitable estoppel.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects Defendant’s equitable  estoppel theory.  Third-Party  Beneficiary            For Defendant’s contention of enforcing the arbitration agreement  as a third-party beneficiary to be true, “the parties to the contract must have  intended the third party to benefit.” (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27  Cal.4th 516, 524.) To do so, Defendant must show that “(1)…the third  party would in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2)…a motivating  purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party,  and (3)…permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action  against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract  and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements  must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.” (Goonewardene  v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)  The Court of Appeal in Ochoa also rejected the auto  manufacturer’s third-party beneficiary argument. Analyzing the Ninth Circuit  Court of Appeal's recent decision in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (2022) 23 F.4th 942, the Second District agreed that the sales contracts reflect  no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer under Goonewardene –  nothing in the sales contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct  “benefit” to the manufacturer, there was no indication that a benefit to the  manufacturer was a motivating purpose of the contract, and allowing the  manufacturer to enforce the arbitration would be inconsistent with the  reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1337-1338.)  Applying the same reasoning here, there is insufficient evidence  to show whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide  a benefit to Defendant. Civil Code section 1559 requires that a contract  benefiting a third party must be made expressly for the benefit of a third  person before that third party can enforce it. (Civ. Code § 1559.) The Court  finds no language in the Lease Agreement or Arbitration Agreement indicating an  express intent to benefit Defendant, nor does the Court find that allowing Defendant  to compel arbitration would be consistent with the reasonable expectations of  the contracting parties.  Based on the foregoing, the Court rejects this argument as well,  and DENIES the motion to compel arbitration and stay action. The Court declines  to address the parties’ other arguments raised in their respective briefs. The  Court also lifts its stay issued on December 22, 2022.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion to compel  arbitration and stay action. The Court further lifts its stay issued on  December 22, 2022.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.