  Case Number:  22STCV38230    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22STCV38230

 
Motion to Strike filed: 11/15/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Southern California Nevada Conference of the United Church of Christ (“Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
The Congregational Church of Chatsworth (“Defendant/Cross-Complainant”)
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The Motion to Strike is denied.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard 
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id. at subd. (b).) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437.)
 
The Motion is Untimely
 
As stated in the Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
Opposition, “[T]his motion is months untimely, was waived as of August 29,
2023, and this Court is not required to even consider it.” (Opp. 1:25-26.)  The Court agrees.  A motion to strike must be filed “within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading.” (CCP § 435(b)(1).)  Clearly, the Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s
“Notice of Filing” does not satisfy the requirements of California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322(a) regarding a notice of motion.  The Court, although not proud of it,
acknowledges our backlog and delay in motion dates.  However, this in no way impedes the proper
and timely filing of properly noticed motions. 

 
For the foregoing reasons and those stated in the
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Opposition and Reply, the Motion is denied.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to Strike is denied. 
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
 
Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by
telephone at (818) 407-2233.
 
CMC is continued to 02/27/2024.
 
 