 Case Number:  22STCV05301    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT B
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GARY
  ZACCARIA, AN INDIVIDUAL,
Plaintiff,  
  
         vs.
 
RALPHS
  GROCERY COMPANY, A OHIO CORPORATION, et al.,
Defendants.



 Case No.:  22STCV05301
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 9, 2024



 
Petitioner Gary Zaccaria’s Motions to Compel Respondent
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Motion for Order to Deem Request for Admissions
Admitted are granted. Respondent is ordered to provide verified responses,
without objections, within 15 days. Respondent is also ordered to pay $1,580 in
sanctions within 15 days.
 
Petitioner Gary Zaccaria (“Petitioner”) moves to compel Respondent
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America (“Respondent”)’s
responses to Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One, Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, and Motion for Order to Deem Request for
Admissions Admitted (collectively “Discovery”). As to each motion, Petitioner
seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,460, comprised of a $60 filing fee and four
hours of work per motion at a rate of $350 per hour, including one hour in
preparing a reply brief and one hour for attending each hearing.
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and
for a monetary sanction.  (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Leach v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
 
Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of
documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (CCP §
2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (CCP §
2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains
relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents
demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for
failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter
outside court before filing the motion.
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel . . . responses to interrogatories or production demands, absent
substantial justification or other circumstances that make imposing the
sanctions unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290(c).) Similarly, “[t]he court may impose
a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.”  (CCP § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of
the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to
provide discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d) and (g).)
 
Petitioner moves to compel Respondent’s responses to Discovery because
Respondent failed to provide any responses. On January 23, 2023, Petitioner
propounded Discovery requests on Respondent. (Moossai Decl. ¶ 2.) Respondent’s
discovery responses were initially due on February 24, 2023, but Petitioner
granted Respondent’s request for an extension of time up to March 14, 2023. (Ibid.
at ¶ 3.) No responses were received. (Ibid. at ¶ 4.) Petitioner
attempted to contact Respondent’s counsel numerous times on this matter,
however, to date, Respondent has failed to respond to Petitioner’s
communications or discovery requests. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 5-6.) Here,
Respondent has failed to timely comply with their discovery obligation because
they have failed to provide timely responses to discovery. Accordingly,
Respondent is ordered to provide verified responses to Petitioner’s Discovery
requests, without objection, within 15 days of this ruling.
 
Considering Respondent’s total failure to comply with their discovery
obligations, the Court orders sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,580
(representing 4 total hours of work at a rate of $350 per hour plus a $60
filing fee for each motion).
 
Dated:  October 9, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon.
Karen Moskowitz
Judge
of the Superior Court