 Case Number:  23STCV18617    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing:             10/09/2024
Re:                         23STCV18617 Developers Surety and Indemnity
Company vs Cyndy’s Cleaning Services

 

 
 
Plaintiff Developers
Surety and Indemnity Company’s Request for Default Judgment
 
Defendant: Cyndy’s Cleaning Services
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff Developer Surety and Indemnity
Company’s request for default judgment is GRANTED.
            
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from the September
2019 stabbing and subsequent death of Defendant Cyndy’s Cleaning Services
(“Cyndy’s”)’s employee Kamryn Stone. (Complaint ¶¶ 4-5.) Decedent was stabbed
while acting in the scope of his employment as a custodian at the Rose Bowl
stadium. (Ibid. at ¶ 5.) On June 30, 2021, Barry F. Stone, individually
and as successor-in-interest to the Estate of Kamryn Stone and Kristie
Campbell-Stone, brought suit against ABM Industry Groups, LLC (“ABM”), and
other defendants, alleging premises liability, negligence, negligent hiring,
and assault and battery. (Ibid. at ¶ 4.) ABM contracted with Cyndy’s to
provide custodial services on the night of the assault. (Ibid.) On
December 28, 2022, ABM filed a cross-complaint against Cyndy’s in the
underlying action, alleging Cyndy’s was negligent in their hiring, supervising,
and retaining of its employees, thereby contributing to the death of the
decedent. (Ibid. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff Developers Surety and Indemnity
Company (“Plaintiff”) insured Cyndy’s as its named insured and agreed to
provide a defense to Cyndy’s in the underlying action. (Ibid. at ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that bodily injury is
not covered under the commercial general liability policy which it provided to
Cyndy’s. (Ibid. at ¶ 9.) As a result, on August 7, 2023, Plaintiff
brought the instant action for declaratory relief from its duty to defend and
indemnify Cyndy’s against all defendants in the underlying action.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a party
has failed to timely respond or appear. (Code Civ. Proc., § 585.) A party
seeking judgment on the default by the court must file a Request for Court
Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other
admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest
computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) declaration
of nonmilitary status; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all
parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate
judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment;
(8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorney’s fees if allowed by
statute or by the agreement of the parties. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1800.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff
seeks judicial declarations that (1) Plaintiff has no duty to defend Cyndy’s
against all defendants in the underlying action; and (2) Plaintiff has no duty
to indemnify Cyndy’s against all defendants in the underlying action. Plaintiff
also seeks an award of costs incurred in the amount of $715.50.
 
Cyndy’s
has failed to timely respond or appear. Plaintiff’s default packet meets all
statutory requirements under CCP § 585. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for
default judgment against Cyndy’s Cleaning Services is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice and prepared a proposed Judgment for the
Court’s signature. 