  Case Number:  22CHCV00493    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 22CHCV00493    Demurrer Filed: 7/21/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Bank  of the West (on behalf of real party in interest, BMO Harris Bank N.A.)  (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Gary  G. Topolewski; and Topolewski America, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiff  demurs to Defendants’ entire cross-complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30  days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    On 3/29/23,  Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same causes  of action against Defendant. On 4/28/23, Defendants filed their answer and  cross-complaint, alleging (1) Malicious Prosecution; and (2) Breach of the  Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.   On 7/21/23,  Plaintiff filed the instant demurrer against Defendants’ cross-complaint. On 10/12/23,  Defendants filed their opposition. On 10/19/23, Defendants dismissed their  first cause of action for Malicious Prosecution without prejudice. On 10/19/23,  Plaintiff filed its reply.   DEMURRER   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Plaintiff  demurs to Defendants’ entire cross-complaint, arguing that Defendants fail¿to  allege facts sufficient to¿state¿any of the causes of action therein.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 5/24/23, he met and  conferred with Defendants’ counsel regarding the issues raised in the instant  demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Joshua  K. Partington ¶¶ 2–4.) Therefore, counsel has satisfied the preliminary  meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a).   B.     Breach  of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing   As  Defendants have dismissed their first cause of action for Malicious Prosecution  from their cross-complaint, the sole remaining cause of action alleges against  Plaintiff a Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Every  contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that  neither party will do anything to interfere with the other party's right to  receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American Nat'l Fire Ins.  Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature and extent of the  duty depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the  parties' legitimate expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.) “A  breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract … and  breach of a specific provision of the contract is not ... necessary to a claim  for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty  Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,  1244.)   Here,  Defendants allege that Plaintiff breached the covenant of good faith and fair  dealing implied in the loan agreements because Defendants have made all loan  payments to Plaintiff. (Cross-Compl. ¶ 34.) Plaintiff argues that here, “Topolewski  America does not allege any contract terms intended to be protected by the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Nowhere in the Cross-Complaint does  Topolewski America allege that the Bank undertook a ‘conscious and deliberate  act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes’ of the contract(s)  between Bank and Topolewski America.” (Dem. 8:22–25, quoting Careau &  Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,  1395.)   In  opposition, Defendants argue that “in pursuing this litigation when all  payments have been made, in claiming the equipment never existed, and that  Cross-Complainants’ employees are not real people, without making a diligent  effort to confirm the same and tying both sides up in endless costly  litigation, Cross-Defendant has engaged in conscious and deliberate acts to  deprive Cross-Complainants of the help to its business that was the ‘agreed  common purpose’ of the loans.” (Defs.’ Opp. 2:18–22.)   However,  the Court notes that nowhere on the face of the cross-complaint do Defendants  make the above factual allegations. To the extent that Defendants intend to  allege that Plaintiff breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing by bringing the instant action against them, this allegation is not  made in the cross-complaint. Moreover, even if it were, Plaintiff has cited to  legal authority finding that the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing cannot be read “to prohibit a party from doing that which is expressly  permitted by an agreement.” (Dem. 9:10–13, quoting Carma Developers (Cal.),  Inc. v. Marathon Development California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342, 374.)  Therefore, “by alleging that Bank breached its duty of good faith and fair  dealing by enforcing its inspection rights under the Loan Documents, Topolewski  America is essentially seeking to altogether eliminate the Bank’s express  inspection rights from the agreements between the parties.” (Id. at  9:16–18.) The Court agrees with Plaintiff, and finds that “while Topolewski  America may have a rightful defense to the causes of action asserted  against it in the Complaint, it does not have a cause of action separate  and apart from that defense.” (Pl.’s Reply 4:1–2 [emphasis in original].)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have failed to allege facts  sufficient to support a cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of  Good Faith and Fair Dealing against Plaintiff. Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained as to Defendants’ second cause of action.   LEAVE TO AMEND   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis v.  YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Here, the  Court notes that Defendants have not made any showing that their pleading can  be successfully amended to state a cause of action for Breach of the Implied  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. However, this is the first demurrer  brought against Defendants’ cross-complaint. Accordingly, under the Court’s  liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Defendants 30 days  leave to amend their cross-complaint to cure the defects set forth above.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained with 30  days leave to amend.