 Case Number:  24STCV17629    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  34 Janis Lazos v. Southern California Regional Rail Authority, et al. (24STCV17629)
 
1.              
Defendant
Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion to Abate Action, or in the alternative,
Join Necessary Parties is DENIED in part as to abatement and GRANTED in part as
to joining a necessary party.
 
2.              
Defendant
Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion to Strike is DENIED in part and GRANTED
in part. 
 
The
court will inquire at the hearing whether leave to amend should be granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Janis Lazos (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows: 
 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s 14-year old son,
Raymond Patrick Paskel (“Decedent”), was struck and killed by a train and cars
owned by Union Pacific Railroad Company in El Monte, California. 
 
The Governor’s Office Emergency Services posted a
tweet stating that the accident occurred at around 9:00 a.m. near Arden Drive
and Railroad Drive, and the city’s fire and police departments responded. 
 
It was reported that a burglary was in process on
the train and of suspicious behavior at the train, but the train was not
stopped. 
 
Plaintiff was not present at the train track.
Plaintiff filed a missing person juvenile report of Decedent at 7:40 p.m. on
January 24, 2024 and Plaintiff identified a photo of the Decedent at 9:00 p.m.
on January 24, 2024. 
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint
asserting causes of action against Defendants Southern California Regional Rail
Authority, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Union
Pacific Railroad Company (“Union”), and Does 1-50 for: 
 
1.              
 Negligence, Premises Liability,
and Gross Negligence – Wrongful Death; 
2.              
Negligence Per Se – Wrongful Death; 
3.              
Negligent Selection, Inspection, and Supervision; 
4.              
Survival Action; and 
5.              
Dangerous Condition and Failure to Warn of Dangerous Conditions. 
 
On August 27, 2024, Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“MTA”) filed their answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint. 
 
On August 29, 2024, Defendant Union Pacific Railroad
Company (“Union”) filed this Motion to Join a Necessary Party and Motion to
Strike. On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed her oppositions to Union’s motions.
On October 10, 2024, Union has filed replies to Plaintiff’s oppositions. 
 
1.              
Defendant
Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion To Join A Necessary Party
 
Legal Standard
“Necessary” parties are
defined under Code of Civil Procedure section 389(a): 
A person who is subject to service of process
and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in his
absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2)
he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated
that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter
impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the
persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,
multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed
interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a
party. 
“Code of Civil Procedure
section 389 limits compulsory joinder to those situations where the absence of
a person may result in substantial prejudice to that person or to the parties
already before the court.” (Morrical v. Rogers (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
438, 461.)
A determination that a
person is a necessary party under section 389(a) is the predicate for the
determination whether he or she is an indispensable party under section 389(b).
(Dreamweaver Andalusians, LLC v. Prudential Ins. Co. of America (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1173.) A “necessary” party only becomes “indispensable”
if the court undertakes the analysis set forth under section 389(b) and
determines that the action cannot proceed without that party. (City of San
Diego v. San Diego City Employees' Retirement System (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
69, 83-84.) “The term ‘indispensable’ actually is a conclusion that, absent
joinder of the party in question, the case must be dismissed.” (Edmon and
Kernow, Cal. Prac. Guide: CPBT (Rutter Group 2020), ¶2:155.)
“Whether a party is
necessary and/or indispensable is a matter of trial court discretion in which
the court weighs ‘factors of practical realities and other considerations.” (City
of San Diego v. San Diego City Employees' Retirement System (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 69, 84.) “For example, where existing and absent parties' interests
are sufficiently aligned such that the absent party's rights will not be affected or impaired by the
judgment or proceeding, the absent party need not be joined.” (Ibid.) 
B.        Discussion
 
Union
moves the court to issue an order abating the instant action until Decedent’s
natural father, Shunta Paskel (“Shunta”), is joined in this action either as a
plaintiff pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 389 or as a nominal
defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 382. (Motion to Join, 3:7-13.)

Union argues that an heir who brings a wrongful
death action has a duty to join all known heirs in a single action. (Id.,
3:24-28, 4:1-15.) Union contends that Decedent was a minor at the time of the
accident who had never been married and does not have any surviving issues. (Ibid.) Union argues that Shunta has standing to
bring a wrongful death claim as the natural father of Decedent making Shunta a
necessary party in this wrongful death action and Plaintiff had a duty to
ensure that Shunta is properly joined under Code of Civil Procedure section
377.60. (Ibid.)
As such, Union argues
that this action should be abated until Shunta is joined or that the court
order that Shunta  be joined as a party
to this action in order to prevent potential double recovery from Union and to
promote judicial economy. (Id., at 3-6.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Union’s request for abatement must be raised
by special demurrer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(b), by
answer, or Union’s request is waived. (Opp., at 2.) Plaintiff contends that
since Union’s motion was procedurally improper, it should be denied. (Ibid.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that even if
Union’s motion was procedurally proper, Plaintiff will seek a stipulation from
Union or request leave to cure the issue by joining Shunta as an heir and
nominal party, and assign Plaintiff as the Decedent’s personal representative
on behalf of the heirs. (Id., at 2.) Plaintiff contends that
Plaintiff’s proposal is allowed and preferable under the circumstances since Shunta
is not willing to join as a plaintiff. (Id., at 2.)
 
In
reply, Union argues that Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(b) is not
relevant here since Union does not claim that Plaintiff does not have legal
capacity to sue. (Reply, at 1.) Union contends that Union properly moved for
abatement or to have all necessary parties joined under Adams v. Superior
Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 77 and Salmon v. Rathjens (1907)
152 Cal. 290, 295 which held that a defendant is entitled to move to abate an
action where all heirs are not joined in a wrongful death suit. (Id.,
2:4-11.) 
 
“The
wrongful death statute is ‘a procedural statute establishing compulsory joinder
and not a statute creating a joint cause of action.’” (Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 807 [quoting Cross v. Pacific Gas
& Elec. Co. (1964) 60 Cal.2d 692].) While a nonjoined heir is not an
‘indispensable party’ to a wrongful death action, omitted heirs are ‘necessary
parties’ such that “plaintiff heirs have a mandatory duty to join all known
omitted heirs in the ‘single action’ for wrongful death.” (Id. at 808.)
“If an heir refuses to participate in the suit as a plaintiff, he or she may be
named as a defendant so that all heirs are before the court in the same
action.” (Id.) “Defendants facing a wrongful death action in which all
the heirs should have, but have not, been joined are entitled to move to abate
the action.” (Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 77.)
Heirs need not be joined if the wrongful death action is brought by the
personal representative of the decedent. (Id. at 77-78.)
 
The
court finds that Shunta must be joined as a party to this action. Since
Plaintiff proposes appropriate methods to cure the lack of joinder of the
necessary party, abatement of this action would be inappropriate. Thus, the
court orders that Shunta be joined as a plaintiff, or if he refuses to
participate as a plaintiff, then as a defendant. The court will inquire at the hearing whether alternative methods to
joining Shunta could cure the current defect. 
 
The motion is denied in part and granted in part. 
 
2.              
Defendant
Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion To Strike 
 
A.             
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The
grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
B.             
Discussion
 
Union
moves to strike the following portions of Plaintiff’s complaint: 
 
1.              
References to,
and the prayer for, punitive/exemplary damages in paragraph 25 of Plaintiff’s
complaint and paragraph 8 in Plaintiff’s prayer for relief; 
2.              
Plaintiff’s
Second Cause of Action for Negligence Per Se; and
3.              
Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for Survival Action.
 
1.              
Punitive
and Exemplary Damages 
 
Punitive damages may be awarded in an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract upon clear and
convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
 
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd.
(c)(3).)
 
Union
argues that Plaintiff’s request for punitive or exemplary damages should be
stricken since they are not recoverable in wrongful death actions. (MTS,
3:23-28.) Additionally, Union argues that since Plaintiff does not allege that
Union acted with oppression, fraud, or malice but instead alleges that Union
was grossly negligent. (Id., 4:1-5.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff pled that Union was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of its conduct and failed to avoid those
consequences. (Opp., 4:21-22, 5:1-9.) Plaintiff also argues that Plaintiff also
pled that Union’s conduct was reckless and indifferent. (Id., 5:1-9;
Compl. ¶¶ 24, 32.) Plaintiff also alleges that there were dangerous conditions
and consequences. (Id., 5:1-9; Compl. ¶¶ 46, 56.) 
 
In
reply, Union reaffirms the same arguments made in its moving papers that (1)
Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages for the wrongful death cause of
action, (2) Plaintiff did not allege sufficient facts to support an award for
punitive damages, and (3) since Plaintiff’s survival action is subject to
strike, Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages has no basis to remain. (Reply,
2:16-28, 3:1-28, 4:1-28.)  Union requests
that at a minimum, paragraph 25 of Plaintiff’s complaint should be stricken
because Plaintiff expressly claims she is entitled to punitive damages as part
of her wrongful death cause of action. (Id., 4:22-25.) 
 
The
court agrees that punitive damages are not recoverable for a wrongful death
cause of action. Punitive damages are not available in a statutory wrongful
death action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.34; Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc.
(2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 796-797; Ford Motor Company v. Superior Court
(1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 748, 751.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s complaint pleads that Union
had notice of the dangerous conditions of the train, yet failed to abate them,
disregarding the impact on Decedent. (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 32, 20, 51.) As Union
points out, the most Union’s alleged conduct amounts to is negligence, for
which punitive damages are not warranted. Finding that Plaintiff’s complaint
fails to allege facts sufficient for a punitive damages request, the court grants
Union’s Motion to Strike portions pertaining to or seeking punitive damages. 
 
2.              
Negligence
Per Se 
 
“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a
presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of
persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was
adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but
creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause
of action for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) 
 
Union
argues that Plaintiff asserts a second cause of action for negligence per se
against Defendants on the basis that Defendants breached duties imposed by the
Code of Federal Regulations. (MTS, 6:7-22.) Union argues that Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendants violated statutory duties does not provide Plaintiff
the ability to bring an independent cause of action for negligence per se but
instead Plaintiff should assert negligence per se to support her first cause of
action for negligence. (Ibid.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff’s complaint incorporated negligence
per se in her causes of action for general negligence and wrongful death
causes of action as an alternative theory of liability. (Opp., 6:1-17.)
Plaintiff concedes that some California authority holds that  negligence per se is not a standalone
cause of action, but Plaintiff also argues that other authority suggest the
opposite. (Ibid.) Notwithstanding, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff is
entitled to plead negligence per se as a theory. (Ibid.) As such,
Plaintiff argues that to the extend the court rules that negligence per se
is not a separate cause of action, the court should only strike lines 17-19 of
page 7 of Plaintiff’s complaint: “SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION BY LAZOS AGAINST
DEFENDANTS METROLINK, MTA, AND UNION PACIFIC (NEGLIGENCE PER SE – WRONGFUL
DEATH).” (Ibid; Compl. 7:17-19.) Plaintiff argues that the subsequent allegations
in should be treated as theories tied to the first cause of action for negligence.
(Ibid.) 
 
In
reply, Union continues to argue that negligence per se provides support of
Plaintiff’s claim for negligence but cannot be raised as a separate cause of
action. (Reply, 5:1-13.) 
 
To
the extent Plaintiff alleges negligence per se as a separate cause of
action, the court grants Union’s motion. However, Plaintiff’s allegations as to
negligence per se may remain in the pleading to the extent Plaintiff
intends to rely on the doctrine of negligence per se to prove her
underlying negligence cause of action.
 
The
motion is granted. 
 
3.              
Survival
Action 
 
A
survival action may be prosecuted by the estate’s executor or administrator or
by the victim’s successor in interest. (Williams v. The Pep Boys Manny Moe
& Jack of California (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 225, 236.) Code of Civil
Procedure, section 377.34, which provides: “In an action or proceeding by a
decedent's personal representative or successor in interest on the decedent's
cause of action, the damages recoverable are limited to the loss or damage that
the decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or
punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to
recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering,
or disfigurement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.34(a).) 
 
Union
contends that Code of Civil Procedure section 377.30 states that a survival
action may be commenced by a decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by
decedent’s successor in interest. (MTS, at 7.) Union argues that Plaintiff’s
complaint fails to establish that Plaintiff has standing to bring a survival
action since it lists Plaintiff as an individual and not a personal
representative or successor in interest for Decedent’s estate. (Id., at 7.)
Additionally, Union argues that Plaintiff alleges that she is the mother of
Decedent but does not make the assertion that she has standing to bring a
survival action. (Ibid.) Union also argues that Plaintiff fails to
comply with the procedural requirements for bringing a survival action since
Plaintiff does not provide a supportive affidavit or declaration corroborating
Plaintiff’s relationship with Decedent. (Ibid.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff will provide a declaration that
will cure any issues brought by Union and reaffirms that Plaintiff is
Decedent’s guardian, heir, and only surviving party with a significant
involvement in the life of Decedent. (Opp., at 6.) Plaintiff also considers
opening a probate proceeding and requests a continuance of this demand so that
Plaintiff is appointed as a representative of Decedent’s estate. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff contends that there is no ground on the face of the pleading to
strike Plaintiff’s survival action claim. (Ibid.)
 
In
reply, Union once again argues that Plaintiff fails to comply with her
statutory requirements to show her standing to bring a survival cause of
action. (Reply, at 5.) 
 
The
court finds that a motion to strike is an improper procedural vehicle to
determine whether Plaintiff’s survival action should be dismissed from her
complaint. (Quiroz v. Sevent Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281 [“Where
a whole cause of action is the proper subject of a pleading challenge, the
court should sustain a demurrer to the cause of action rather than grant a
motion to strike.”].) As such, Union’s motion is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
1.              
Defendant Union
Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion to Abate Action, or in the alternative, Join
Necessary Parties is DENIED in part as to abatement and GRANTED in part as to
joining a necessary party.
 
2.              
Defendant Union
Pacific Railroad Company’s Motion to Strike is DENIED in part and GRANTED in
part.  
 
The court will inquire at the hearing whether leave
to amend should be granted.
 