 Case Number:  24STCV09843    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, December 12, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV09843
CASE NAME:                        Donald F. Ramos, et
al. v. General Motors, LLC., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant General Motors, LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Donal F. Ramos and
Katrina Ramos
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike
OPPOSITION:                        13 November 2024
REPLY:                                  19
November 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant
GM’s demurrer is overruled and the motion to strike is denied. Defendant GM
must file an Answer by December 23, 2024. An OSC Re: Filing of Answer is set
for January 10, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. and the Case Management Conference is also continued
to that date and time.  Defendant to give
notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On April 19, 2024,
Donald Ramos and Katrina Ramos (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against General
Motors (“Defendant” or “GM”) for violations of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
On August 1, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging five
causes of action: 1) Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2; 2) Violation of Civ. Code
§ 1793.2(B); 3) Violation of Civ. Code § 1793.2(A)(3); 4) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability (Civ. Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5.); and 5) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. 
 
Defendant GM now demurs
to the fifth cause of action. Plaintiffs oppose the Motion. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
            A.        Fifth Cause of Action - Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
Fraud based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant
must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must
have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,
and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the
plaintiff must have sustained damage.”¿ (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)¿ Less specificity is required to plead
fraud by concealment.¿ (Ibid.)¿“Even under the strict rules of common
law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when
the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”¿ (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1256, 1384.)¿
 
Defendant GM demurs to
the fifth cause of action on the basis that the fraud claim is not pled with
the requisite specificity and fails to allege a transactional relation between
GM and Plaintiff that gives rise to a duty to disclose. “Under California law,
a plaintiff may assert a cause of action for fraudulent concealment based on
conduct occurring in the course of a contractual relationship, if the elements
of the claim can be established independently of the parties' contractual
rights and obligations and the tortious conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk
of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of the parties when they entered
into the contract.” (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17
Cal.5th 1, 45.) 
 
Here, the FAC alleges
Defendant GM, “through sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiffs,
including but not limited to pre-production and post-production testing data;
early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to
Defendant GM and its network of dealers; aggregate warranty data compiled from
Defendant GM’s network of dealers; testing conducted by Defendant GM in
response to these complaints; as well as warranty repair and part replacements
data received by Defendant GM from Defendant GM’s network of dealers, amongst
other sources of internal information” knew about the transmission defect in
the Subject Vehicle and the safety risk it posed. (FAC, ¶¶ 63, 71.) 
 
The transmission defect
posed a safety hazard due to “1) the battery dying, 2) sudden automatic braking
repeatedly, 3) warning lights and sensors going off repeatedly.” (Id., ¶
24.) The transmission defect “can suddenly and unexpectedly cause the driver to
be unable to control the speed and acceleration/deceleration of the vehicle”
exposing Plaintiffs and their passengers (along with other drivers who share
the road or garage with Plaintiffs) to a serious risk of accident and injury.”
(Id., ¶ 62.) Defendant GM “concealed information about the defects in
Defendant’s Vehicles prior to and at the time of sale and thereafter” and
“continued to conceal the Transmission Defect from consumers, including in its
marketing materials, and advised any complaining customers that poor shifts
were ‘normal.’” (Id., ¶¶ 30, 65.) 
 
Defendant GM maintains
that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim lacks specificity because the FAC fails to state “(i)
the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts
or made untrue representations about their Colorado, (ii) their authority to
speak and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in
Plaintiffs’ Colorado at the time of purchase, (iv) any interactions with GM
before or during the purchase of the Colorado, or (v) GM’s intent to induce
reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the specific Colorado at issue.” (Motion, at
p. 9:7-12.) 
 
The rule of
specificity of pleading is intended to apply only to affirmative
representations and not to fraud by concealment. (See Alfaro, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at 1384.) As the Alfaro court observed: “it is harder to
apply [the requirement of specificity] to a case of simple nondisclosure. ‘How
does one show “how” and “by what means” something didn't happen, or “when” it
never happened, or “where” it never happened?’” (Ibid.; see Jones v.
ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1200 [concealment is
sufficiently pled when the complaint as a whole provides sufficient notice of
the claims against defendants].)¿¿ 
 
Here, the FAC
sufficiently alleges that Defendant GM “authorized or ratified by GM’s
officers, directors or managing agents, including approving GM’s marketing
materials and product disclosures which failed to disclose the Transmission
Defect and which were relied upon by Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into
purchasing Subject Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 75.) This is sufficient to put Defendant
GM on notice of the basis for Plaintiff’s fraud allegations and the fact that
Plaintiff believes “Defendant (and its agents, representatives, officers,
directors, employees, affiliates, and/or dealerships) concealed the defects,
minimized the scope, cause, and dangers of the defects with inadequate TSBs
and/or Recalls, and refused to investigate, address, and remedy the defects as
it pertains to all affected vehicles[.]” (Id., ¶ 36.) 
 
Moreover, the
specific information as to who allegedly authorized or ratified the concealment
of the transmission defect is information that lies with Defendant GM and not
Plaintiffs. “We acknowledge that the requirement of specificity is relaxed when
the allegations indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily possess full
information concerning the facts of the controversy’ [citation] or ‘when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party[.]’ [Citation.]” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.¿(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158.)
Accordingly, the court finds that the fraud claim is adequately pled. 
 
Second, the FAC
alleges a buyer-manufacturer/distributor relationship between Plaintiffs and
Defendant GM that gives rise to a duty to disclose. 
 
In Rattagan v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, the California Supreme Court
recognized that manufacturers owe a duty to disclose when “(3) the material
facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows those
facts are not known or reasonably discoverable by plaintiff (i.e., exclusive
knowledge); (4) the defendant makes representations but fails to disclose other
facts that materially qualify the facts disclosed or render the disclosure
misleading (i.e., partial concealment); or (5) defendant actively conceals
discovery of material fact from plaintiff (i.e., active concealment).” (Id.
at p. 40.) 
 
Here, the FAC
alleges that Defendant GM had superior knowledge about the transmission defect
and actively concealed the defect by telling consumers that the poor shifts
were “normal” and “purporting to be able to fix the symptoms of the defects
and/or that such symptoms were not the result of a defect.” (FAC, ¶¶ 31, 65.)
Defendant GM fails to cite case law supporting the finding that a manufacturer
of a consumer vehicle owes no duty to the end consumers of their products, even
if they did not directly sell the vehicle to the buyer. 
 
The demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant GM moves to strike
the request for punitive damages in the FAC. Defendant GM asserts “punitive
damages claim must be stricken because Plaintiffs have not pled a viable fraud
claim or any other cause of action that can support a claim for punitive
damages.” (Motion, at p. 1:6-8.) As the demurrer to the fifth cause of action
is overruled, Plaintiffs can seek punitive damages based on their fraud claim. 
 
Second, Defendant GM asserts
that the FAC fails to allege facts to show that GM acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, §
3294(c)(3).) As the court has overruled the fraud cause of action, the
allegations relating to fraud are sufficient to withstand the pleading requirements
for punitive damages. The FAC sufficiently alleges that “[a]ll acts of
corporate employees as alleged herein, were authorized or ratified by GM’s
officers, directors or managing agents, including approving GM’s marketing
materials and product disclosures which failed to disclose the Transmission
Defect and which were relied upon by Plaintiffs, thereby inducing them into
purchasing Subject Vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ 75.) 
 
The motion to strike is denied.

 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
GM’s demurrer is overruled and the motion to strike is denied. Defendant GM
must 
file an Answer by December 23, 2024. An
OSC Re: Filing of Answer is set for January 10, 2025, 
at 8:30 a.m. and the Case Management
Conference is also continued to that date and time.  
Defendant to give notice. 


