 Case Number:  23CHCV02958    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
01-06-25
Case
# 23CHCV02958, Pizza De Cal, Inc. v. N.V.N. Shopping Center, LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: None set.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Eho Two, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
striking illegal immigration allegations and punitive damages allegations
against Defendant Eho Two, LLC from the First Amended Complaint.
 
RULING: Motion is granted
with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Pizza de Cal (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants N.V.N. Shopping
Center, LLC (NVN), Eho Two, LLC (Eho Two), and Does 1 through 20 on October 2,
2023 alleging Defendants breached a lease agreement in order to force Plaintiff,
and Defendants’ other tenants, to vacate Defendants’ strip mall located in
Pacoima, CA.  On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, and (4)
negligence.
 
Javier
Bencomo owns Plaintiff.  In 2018,
Plaintiff purchased La Pizza Loca, a Los Angeles based pizza restaurant chain
and assumed a written lease for a commercial space located at a strip mall in Pacoima,
CA (Pacoima Location).  (FAC, ¶ 31.)  Plaintiff leased the location from Defendants
NVN, an alleged alter ego of Eho Two. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 10, 20, Exh. A - Lease Agreement.)  NVN was listed as the Landlord in the lease
agreement.  (Ibid.)  Eho Lin allegedly operated the Pacoima
Location through Eho Two.  (FAC, ¶
6.)  Plaintiff began paying rent in or
about 2018/2019.  
 
Plaintiff’s
revenues exceeded expectations, and the Pacoima Location performed well until the
Coronavirus pandemic.  During the
pandemic, Plaintiff temporarily shut its doors as required by law and reopened
as soon as reasonably possible.  (FAC, ¶
21.)  In early October 2021, several
individuals trespassed on the strip mall and stole the copper wire that carried
electricity to the strip mall.  (FAC, ¶
22.)  Plaintiff reported the situation to
NVN through phone calls and emails between Mr. Bencomo and NVN’s
representatives.  (FAC, ¶¶ 22, 23.)
 
NVN
first agreed to fix everything but then directed Plaintiff to make a claim with
its insurer.  (FAC, ¶ 23.)  NVN also suggested that Plaintiff abandon the
store and move out and then refused to identify its own insurance carrier to
avoid Plaintiff making an independent claim. 
(Ibid.)  Next, NVN told
Plaintiff that Plaintiff needed to replace the wires in Plaintiff’s store.  (Ibid.)  NVN was then nonresponsive for various
periods of time and refused to undertake the necessary repairs in the common
area it controlled—the wires that carried electricity to the strip mall.  (Ibid.)  NVN then filed an eviction case against
Plaintiff demanding that Plaintiff pay rent for the Pacoima Location.  (Ibid.)  NVN then unilaterally waived all back rent
and any other monies due or owed by Plaintiff in the unlawful detainer case.  (FAC, ¶ 23, fn. 3.)
 
Between
October 1, 2019 and late 2022 NVN allegedly abandoned its landlord duties and
obligations by failing (1) to maintain adequate levels of insurance coverage
despite premiums being part of the common area maintenance charges; (2) to
provide electrical to the strip mall generally and to Plaintiff’s store; (3) interfered
with Plaintiff’s ability to conduct business to produce the maximum profitable
volume of sales reasonably obtainable; (4) to timely remove graffiti from the
common areas defined in the lease; (5) to repair electrical components of
common areas; (6) to adequately provide and repair plumbing and other utilities
comprising part of the common areas; (7) to adequately provide pest control to
the common areas; (8) to adequately provide fire protection and related annual
inspections of fire protection equipment to common areas; and (9) allowing
homeless individuals to run amuck through the strip mall without any security
or other preventative measures to help abate the nuisance.  (FAC, ¶ 24.)
 
Due
to lack of electricity, Plaintiff shut down and dismissed all its Pacoima Location
employees.  (FAC, ¶ 25.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants and Eho Lin refused to repair the electricity issues in
order to force all tenants to vacate the strip mall and to redevelop the strip
mall and generate investments from foreign nationals.  (FAC, ¶ 27.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants’ Pacoima Location property manager and supervisor, Dora
Contreras, disclosed that Defendants never intended to repair the electrical
system, refused to file an insurance claim to make Plaintiff whole or even
attempt to repair the strip mall’s electrical system, planned to redevelop the
entire strip mall, and wanted to force Plaintiff and the tenants out by, in
part, refusing to fix the electrical system.  (FAC, ¶ 28.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that other individuals, such as insurance adjusters, agents, and brokers
attempted to intervene on Plaintiff’s behalf by reaching out to NVN.  (FAC, ¶ 29.) 
Defendants expressed to these individuals that Defendants would not
participate with any insurance claim to Defendants’ own carrier for the purposes
of repairing the electrical issues or compensating Plaintiff for loss.  (FAC, ¶ 29.) 
Further, Defendants indicated they did not plan to undertake any repairs
while tenants occupied the strip mall.  (FAC,
¶ 29.)
 
On
October 16, 2024, Eho Two filed a motion to strike punitive damages and allegations
of illegal immigration Visa schemes against Eho Two from the FAC.
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
Before filing a motion to strike, the parties must
meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)  The moving party must file and serve a meet
and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the moving party
met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to motion, and
that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in
the motion to strike;” or “(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to
motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the moving
party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)
 
Eho Two’s counsel of record, Jennie Barkinskaya,
states she sent Plaintiff’s counsel, Daniel Bramzon, a meet and confer
correspondence discussing deficiencies in the FAC on October 2, 2024.  (Declaration of Jennie Barkinskaya, ¶ 4, Exh.
B.)  Ms. Barkinskaya claims as of October
16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel has not responded to Ms. Barkinsaya’s request to
meet and confer.  (Barkinskaya Dec., ¶
5.)
 
The meet and confer requirement is met.
 
SUMMARY
OF ARGUMENTS
Eho
Two argues that the Court should strike allegations of an illegal Visa scheme
and punitive damages from the FAC.  The
FAC includes inflammatory, unfounded, fantastical, irrelevant, and unnecessary
allegations that Eho Two was engaged in a sinister Visa scheme.  These allegations are prejudicial and irrelevant
to Plaintiff’s causes of action regarding what is at its core: a complaint
regarding substandard conditions at a shopping plaza where Plaintiff operated
its pizza restaurant business.  Further, punitive
damages are not available in connection to causes of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Additionally, the alleged conduct and failure to act lacks the requisite
willfulness, oppression, and malice to support punitive damages.
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Strike - Sections 436 and 431.10
A
court may, upon motion or at any time, strike from the complaint “any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter” or “all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 436, subds. (a)-(b), 187; Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 822, 830 [noting the court’s inherent power to limit the focus of
the proceedings to the issues framed by the remaining viable pleadings].)  An “irrelevant matter” is an allegation that
“is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense,” “is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)-(c).)[1]  The Court must read the factual allegations
in the complaint as a whole and assume their truth.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Illegal
Immigration Visa Scheme Allegations
Eho Two moves to strike the following language from
the FAC:
 
·        
Page 2, lines 3 - 5: “Dreams.” through “version
of course.” 
·        
Page 2, lines 24 - 25: “Meanwhile”
through “Eho Lin.” 
·        
Page 2, line 26 - page 3, line 1: “Eho
Lin had different plans” “strip mall which included the LPL Pacoima store.” 
·        
Page 3, lines 5 - 19: “Eho Lin apparently
funded” through “whatever that may be – and property redevelopment.”
·        
Page 3, lines 20 - 23: “This lawsuit is
an ex post facto dream catcher” through “spirit can overcome Eho Lin’s twisted
version of capitalism.”
·        
Page 4, lines 15 - 17: “Based on
information and belief, this entity is an alter-ego of Eho Two, LLC,” through “involving
Chinese nationals.” 
·        
Page 5, lines 25 - 27: “Either Eho Lin
owns a mailbox store,” through “the individual.” 
·        
Page 6, lines 2 - 4: “The origin of this
tangled ownership web” through “Mr. Bencomo’s Pacoima LPL store . . . .”
 
The
complaint must contain (1) a statement of facts constituting a cause of action
in ordinary and concise language and (2) a demand for judgment for the
relief to which the pleader claims to be entitled.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.10, subd. (a)(1)-(2); see also Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60 [striking exhibits and exhibit quotes because they
were irrelevant to the causes of action complaint].)  
 
Eho Two moves to strike allegations which describe
Eho Two’s alleged motivation for breaching the lease agreement and the related
implied covenants.  However, Eho Two’s motives
are irrelevant to Plaintiff’s contract-based claims.  (Alki Partners, LP v. DB Fund Servs., LLC (2016)
4 Cal.App.5th 574, 597.)  Although motive
is relevant to establish willful conduct in a punitive damages request,
Plaintiff does not request punitive damages for his Negligence cause of action,
and willful conduct cannot be negligent. 
(G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22,
29-30; Donnelly v. Southern Pacific Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Eho Two’s motion to
strike these factual allegations from the complaint.[2]  
 
            Punitive
Damages
Eho Two moves to strike the following punitive
damages language from the FAC:
 
·        
Page 12, lines 14 - 19: “Such intent or
motive” through “to deter future, similar conduct.” 
·        
Page 13, lines 10 - 14: “Such intent or
motive” through “to deter future, similar conduct.” 
·        
Page 14, line 8, prayer for punitive
damages. 
·        
Page 14, line 13, prayer for punitive
damages.
 
To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth
specific facts demonstrating the elements stated in Civil Code section
3294.  (College Hospital, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; see also Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977)
73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Id. at p. 725; Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).)  Oppression is “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
Fraud is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)  
 
Eho Two argues that alleging “failure to timely or
properly maintain the premises is insufficient to show any reprehensible or
despicable conduct.”  (Motion, p.
3:14-15.)  Awareness of defective
conditions and refusal to make repairs is not sufficient to support punitive
damages.  (Motion, p. 3:16-18.)
 
Punitive
damages are not available for breach of contract claims including derivative
claims for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and
breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a); Cates
Constructions, Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 61; Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 901.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants Eho Two’s motion to strike punitive damages from the FAC.
 
 
ORDER
Motion is granted, without prejudice and with leave to
amend.
 
Plaintiff Pizza De Cal is ordered to file and serve
an amended complaint within thirty (30) days of the date of this complaint.
 
Defendant Eho Two, LLC to give notice.


