  Case Number:  23STCV14893    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
1, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Edwin
Novel Jewelry Design, Inc. v. Reddit, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV14893

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Reddit, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Edwin Novel Jewelry
Design, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the entire First Amended Complaint on the grounds it is barred by the
federal Communications Decency Act, 47 U.S.C. § 230;
2.      Demurrer
to the entire First Amended Complaint on the grounds it is barred by the First
Amendment of the United Stated Constitution; and
3.      Demurrer
to the entire First Amended Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action against Reddit.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the FAC is SUSTAINED in its entirety with 20 days leave to amend.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff Edwin Novel Jewelry Design, Inc.
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Reddit, Inc. (Defendant or
Reddit) with two causes of action for: (1) Trade Libel; and (2) False Light.
 
On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
naming Defendant DOE 2 as Matt Fehring.
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to
Complaint naming Defendant DOE 6 as Dan Moran and Defendant DOE 9 as Concierge
Diamonda, Inc.
 
On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC). According to the FAC, a group of Plaintiff’s competitors acting
as moderators on Reddit started attacking Plaintiff through online publications
causing Plaintiff’s sales to plummet. 
 
On October 17, 2023, Defendant Matt Fehring filed a Motion
to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint.
 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant Reddit, Inc. filed a
Demurrer to the FAC. On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January
24, 2024, Reddit filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Reddit’s Request for Judicial Notice as to
Exhibits E, F, G, and Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice as to Items 1 and
2.[1]
(Cal. Evid. Code § 452(h).) However, the court only
takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence,
content and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it
does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in
those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta
(2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Prior to filing
a demurrer, the demurring party is required to satisfy their meet and confer
obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. (CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that
they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration
pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) & (3). Upon reviewing the Declaration
of Julie E. Schwartz, the parties sufficiently met and conferred.
 
Demurrer¿ 
¿ 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.”¿(Hahn¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
First Cause of
Action – Trade Libel
 
a.       Federal Communications Decency Act,
47 U.S.C. § 230
Reddit contends that Plaintiff’s FAC is barred as to Reddit
under the CDA because it provides an interactive computer service, Plaintiff’s
claim treats Reddit as a publisher of the offending content, and the content
was provided by another information content provider. Plaintiff argues that the
moderators are gratuitous agents of Reddit and so Reddit is not immune under
the CDA. Reddit replies that Plaintiff has not alleged any facts overcoming CDA
immunity and that the moderators are third parties under the CDA because their
relationship with Reddit is expressly defined such that they do not speak for
Reddit or act on its behalf. Reddit additionally replies that Reddit’s right to
terminate moderators does not transform moderators into employees. The parties
heavily rely on federal authority to support their arguments.[2]
 
Section 230(c)(1) of the CDA provides that, “no provider… of
an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of
any information provided by another information content provider.” (See also, Barrett v. Rosenthal (2006) 40 Cal.4th
33, 39.) An “interactive computer service” is “any information service, system
. . . that provides or enables computer access by multiple users to a computer
server.” (Id., § 230(f)(2).) An
“information content provider” is “any person or entity that is responsible, in
whole or in part, for the creation or development of information provided
through the Internet or any other inter active computer service.” (Id., § 230(f)(3).) Section 230(e)(3) of
the CDA provides that, “No cause of action may be brought and no liability may
be imposed under any State or local law that is inconsistent with this
section.”
 
“Immunity under section 230 requires proof of three
elements: (1) [Defendant] is an interactive computer services provider, (2)
[Defendant] is not an information content provider with respect to the disputed
activity, and (3) [Plaintiffs] seek to hold [Defendant] liable for information
originating with a third-party user of its service.” (Doe II v. MySpace Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 561, 568 (Doe II).) 
 
At issue here is whether a Reddit volunteer moderator is
“another information content provider” who triggers Section 230 protection for
Reddit or if Reddit is liable for their volunteer moderator’s posts.[3]
The FAC alleges two moderators: defendant Matt Fehring (formerly DOE 2) and DOE
1, username Chooseausername7567. (FAC ¶¶15, 18.) Upon reviewing the FAC, there
are no allegations pertaining to Reddit posts other than via these two
moderators. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Fehring and DOE 1 are employed by
Reddit as volunteer moderators. (FAC ¶¶ 7, 15, 18.) 
 
To establish a claim for vicarious liability, Plaintiff must
show the tortfeasor was employed by the defendant, or there is an alleged
“actual” or “ostensible” relationship. (See Asplund
v. Selected Investment in Fin’l Equities, Inc. (2000) 86 Cal.App.4th 26,
45-49 [employment relationship]; Cal. Civ. Code § 2298 [“An agency is either
actual or ostensible.”]; Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Los Angeles (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 953, 969 [actual agency]; Cal.
Civ. Code § 2300 [“An agency is ostensible when the principal intentionally, or
by want of ordinary care, causes a third person to believe another to be his
agent who is not really employed by him.”]) 
 
Reading the FAC in context, Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged the existence of an employment or agency relationship. First, the FAC
alleges that moderators “are granted powers and abilities far beyond those of
ordinary users” presumably by Reddit, that they “monitor the messages in the
subreddit, and remove messages that are off-topic,” “determine why posts are
removed,” “able to make public why posts are removed,” and that Reddit can
terminate them. (FAC ¶¶  8, 9, 10, 11, 12.)
Plaintiff alleges that the two moderators posted defamatory statements “within
the scope and authority” of their moderator roles. (FAC ¶¶ 15, 18.) 
 
Accordingly, Reddit is not protected by Section 230 of the
CDA for the alleged misconduct.
 
b.      First Amendment
Reddit contends it has a constitutionally protected right to
decide which speech to allow on its platform and so cannot face liability for
its decisions about what speech to allow, or not, on its service and platform. Plaintiff
does not directly oppose this argument. The court declines to further develop
this argument at this time.
 
c.       Sufficient Factual Allegations
Reddit contends that Plaintiff’s claim fails because the FAC
only alleges that Reddit hosted the content created by ten other Reddit users
and that the volunteer moderators do not act on Reddit’s behalf as indicated by
Reddit’s Terms. Plaintiff states that Reddit did not dispute that Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a claim of libel but does not otherwise develop this
argument. Reddit replies that it has not conceded that the speech at issue is
defamatory and that Plaintiff has not otherwise alleged facts supporting an
agency relationship or other theory of vicarious liability.  
 
“Trade libel is the publication
of matter disparaging the quality of another’s property, which the publisher
should recognize is likely to cause pecuniary loss to the owner.” (ComputerXpress, Inc. v. Jackson (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1010.) “The tort encompasses all false statements
concerning the quality of services or product of a business which are intended
to cause that business financial harm and in fact do so.” (Id. at pp. 1010-1011.) The statement must be false. (Id. at p. 1011.) Opinions will not support
a cause of action for trade libel. (Ibid.)
Whether the statement is fact or opinion is usually a question of law which the
court determines by reading the alleged statement as an average reader and
determining the natural and probable effect of the statement considering both
language and the context. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged defamatory statements by Reddit via its moderators. There
are three alleged defamatory statements at issue. (1) DOE 1’s statement: “It
seems like the posts criticizing this company keep disappearing across Reddit.
I would suspect this is due to bogus legal threats and/or mass reporting of the
posts causing them to be pulled down.”[4] (FAC ¶ 43.) (2) Defendant
Fehring’s statement: “[e]very time someone posts a negative comment about Edwin
Novel Jewelry Design, one of these posts asking about them pops up looking like
an advertisement for them.” (FAC ¶ 77.) (3) Defendant Fehring’s statement: “I’m
having a ball over here in r/diamonds cleaning up these posts. I swear they’re
making or using or using alts to pump out good comments.” (FAC ¶ 78.) It is
unclear to the court how these statements allege “false statements concerning
the quality of services or product of a business which are intended to cause
that business financial harm and in fact do so.” These posts are opinion,
observational commentary and hyperbole. Moreover, These statements pertain to
managing Reddit’s platform. 
 
Accordingly, the court
SUSTAINS Reddit’s demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action – False Light
 
There were no new arguments specific to the second cause of
action. As such, the analysis for Section 230 and First Amendment protection is
unchanged.
 
“False light is a species of invasion of privacy,
based on publicity that places a plaintiff before the public in a false light that would be
highly offensive to a reasonable person, and where the defendant knew or acted
in reckless disregard as to the falsity of the publicized matter and the false light in which the
plaintiff would be placed.” (De Havilland
v. FX Networks, LLC (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 865.) Like libel, it exposes
a person to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy and assumes the audience
will recognize it as such. (Ibid.) The
elements are: (1) assertions of fact, (2) actually false or create a false
impression about the plaintiff, (3) highly offensive to a reasonable person or
defamatory, and (4) made with actual malice. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts
supporting a claim against Reddit for false light for the same reasons
articulated above.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Reddit’s demurrer to the
second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
2.      Demurrer
to the FAC is SUSTAINED in its entirety with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 1, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


