 Case Number:  21SMCV01387    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  I The underlying case is brought by plaintiff against
defendant.  Defendant loaned plaintiff
money that is secured (at least in part) by real property.  Plaintiff’s owner lived in the property until
it caught fire.  Plaintiff’s owner claims
he will live there again once repairs are complete.  Defendant seeks to foreclose on the loan.  In a prior order, the court enjoined any
foreclosure sale.  At issue in the PI
hearing was, among other things, plaintiff’s contention that it transferred
shares of a thinly traded stock to defendant who was supposed to sell the stock
to reduce or retire the loan.  But rather
than sell the stock, defendant allegedly held the stock in order to engage in a
hostile takeover of the company. 
According to plaintiff, when plaintiff opposed the takeover, defendant
attempted to foreclose on the note primarily in retaliation.  The court issued the injunction and ordered a
bond of $100,000.  The bond amount was
expressly without prejudice to a motion to increase the bond if a proper
showing could be made.  Defendant has
accepted that invitation by way of this motion, which plaintiff opposes.
The loan history is more complex than the over-simplified
version above, but ultimately there were a series of agreements.  There is a Deed of Trust (DOT) on the
property that explicitly identifies the four loans.  One is the Real Property Note of $4 million,
one is the Securities Note of $200,000, one is the Guaranty Loan of $225,000,
and finally there is the Put Agreement of $1.75 million.  The total principal amount is $6.125
million.  When plaintiff did not repay
the loans, defendant recorded a Notice of Default dated December 13, 2021
(NOD).  The NOD stated that the DOT was
given “for the purposes of securing, among other things, payment of
indebtedness in the total principal amount of $4,000,000, together with interest
thereon.”  A Notice of Trustee’s Sale
(NOTS) was set for April 27, 2022.  That
sale was enjoined.
The court begins by questioning whether this motion is even
necessary.  According to defendant,
plaintiff has not even posted the $100,000 bond as required.  Given that a reasonable time to post has come
and gone, the injunction is not effective at all.  So far as this court is concerned, if
plaintiff is not going to post any bond, defendant can foreclose on the
property; the injunction would be dissolved by this court had defendant so
requested by way of motion.  Having said
that, the court can readily envision such a motion being brought and, at the
last minute, plaintiff suddenly coming up with the bond and asking that the
injunction remain in force.  Given that,
the court will address the merits.
Preliminarily, the requests for judicial notice are GRANTED,
including the new evidence submitted in reply. 
Plaintiff’s objection to the Hankey declaration is SUSTAINED, although
it is not material.  Hankey does not
explain how he came up with the fee number. 
The objection to the Holmes declaration is SUSTAINED as it is
hearsay.  Holmes cannot authenticate the
report he did not write.  However, that
problem was cured in reply.  Defendant’s
objection to the Heshmatpour declaration is DISREGARDED because that evidence
is not particularly germane to the court. 
With that, the court turns to the merits.
Defendant originally asked that the bond be increased to
$4.8 million, although on reply, defendant (improperly) seeks a higher bond of
$6.3 million.  The elements defendant
identifies include the total shortfall between the property’s value and the
amount of the debt, accruing interest, and attorneys’ fees that will be
necessary to dissolve the injunction. 
The court notes that in setting the bond, it is not defendant’s burden to
prove that it will prevail; the purpose of the bond is to protect the defendant
in the event defendant prevails. 
Having said that, the amount of the bond is left to the court’s
discretion, and the likelihood of ultimate success is not irrelevant. 
One problem that defendant has is that it misreads the
court’s prior ruling.  The court did not
say that the amount of the bond is the shortfall between the debt and the
property’s value.  The court was simply
saying that if there is no shortfall then there is no need for any significant
bond at all because the injunction delay will cause no injury.  On the other hand, if there is a shortfall,
the calculus is different.  However, it
is injury due to the delay that the bond protects against, not any
injury at all.  Thus, the bond amount is
tied to the amount that the shortfall will increase due to the delay,
not the total shortfall.  Put another
way, consider a debt of $10 million secured by property worth $7 million.  Even absent an injunction, the judgment
creditor will be short $3 million; that injury is not caused by the injunction,
it is caused by the underlying inadequate collateral.  The bond is not designed to protect the
enjoined party from that injury. 
However, as interest accrues, the shortfall will grow.  It is the growth that the bond covers.  On the other hand, if there is a debt of $10
million but the defendant has $15 million in equity, then there is no need for
more than a nominal bond.  If the
defendant prevails and the property is sold, there will be plenty of money to
satisfy the full debt including additional interest with money left over. 
So to calculate the bond injury assuming inadequate
collateral it is the additional interest that is accruing (because that
increases the amount of the shortfall) plus any diminution of the property’s
underlying value.  The court has no
evidence before it that the property is declining in value, so the amount
injury that will be caused by the delay is the amount of interest that would
accrue between the date of the PI and the trial date. The court has some evidence
on that point because defendant has calculated the daily sum at about $2000/day
(if the total debt is considered) or $1450/day (if only the $4 million debt is
considered).  The court notes that even
putting aside all but the $4 million note, the total debt is calculated (by
defendant) at $8.1 million.  If all the
debts are considered, the total is now $12.7 million.
Defendant also contends that it is entitled to a bond to
cover its attorneys’ fees relating to ultimately obtaining an order dissolving
the bond.  Frankly, were the court
writing on a clean slate, the court would not agree that such is the law, at
least where the fees go to the underlying merits as opposed to some unique work
going only to the bond.  However, case
law suggests that defendant is right. 
Surprisingly (at least to the court) the fees are recoverable at least
in part.  Defendant contends that it has
already incurred close on a half million in fees and impliedly defendant
contends that a similar amount will be coming down the pike. 
Plaintiff contends that the whole discussion is irrelevant
because the anti-deficiency statute bars any recovery anyway.  The court does not read the statute that way,
and good thing for plaintiff.  If it were
the case that defendant could never recover any shortfall, the balance of
hardships would tilt differently.
Defendant argues that the property is worth $8 million, and
that (defendant claims) is generous because it does not really consider the
$1.5 million in fire damage.  Plaintiff,
while pleading poverty, asserts that the property is really worth $15 million
and therefore there is no shortfall at all. 
(Apparently there is no debt on the property other than the notes at
issue in this case.)  If defendant is
correct, there is a growing shortfall and perhaps a need to increase the
bond.  If plaintiff is correct, there is
more than enough equity in the property to cover any judgment that might
ultimately be rendered and thus there is no need to increase the bond.
Defendant’s appraiser is from the Alexander Valuation Group
and it was made without viewing the interior. 
Plaintiff’s appraisal is from Babken Azizyan, who has questionable
credentials.  (Specifically, he holds an
AL license, which permits him to appraise non-complex 1-4 family properties
worth up to $1 million.  However, the
licensing agency’s rules are not reflected in positive law.  Azizyan is not precluded legally from
appraising the property; his lack of a higher license goes to weight, not
admissibility.)  Part of the problem with
plaintiff’s appraisal is that it does not seem to account for the fire damage,
which would reduce the value by $1.5 million or so to $13.5 million.  Even the lower number, though, would not
require an increased bond.  Not
surprisingly, defendant’s owner, Heshmatpour, also estimates the property’s
value at $15 million (once the repairs are complete).  He might be able to provide an admissible
valuation—after all, he is the property’s owner’s owner.  But it is hardly a rigorous analysis.
To put some specific numbers into this, if interest is
$2000/day, the increased shortfall due to the delay between the order and trial
(no date has yet been set) would be about $750,000.  If the lower interest rate is used, it is
closer to $530,000.  The court does not
have good evidence on the attorneys’ fees. 
The court is not convinced that all of defendant’s fees are recoverable
in the event defendant prevails.  The
calculus is more nuanced. 
With all of that said, the court might be inclined to
increase the bond to $600,000.  The court
tends to credit defendant’s appraisal more than plaintiff’s appraisal.  Neither is really done with the rigor that
the court would expect, but the court finds defendant’s appraisal to be more
reliable.  The court is aware of
plaintiff’s claims of poverty.  But
having said that, the court can only weep so many tears over a plaintiff who is
living in a $15 million home (or will soon be doing so).  And, as said at the start, plaintiff has not
even bothered to post the $100,000 bond amount originally set.  However, the court would be willing to hear
argument about a short continuance to allow plaintiff (and perhaps defendant)
to provide a better appraisal report contingent on plaintiff posting at least
the $100,000 bond immediately.  In such
an event, the court would also allow defendant to firm up the fee aspect and
revise the amount of the bond sought.