 Case Number:  21SMCV01459    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  I This is an unopposed motion to continue the trial, currently
set for January 29, 2024.  Defendant
contends that the parties have not yet completed their discovery and moreover
there are some subcontractors who are presently unknown but may need to be
added.  Defendant also states that it has
been hard to communicate with some parties. 
The motion to continue the trial is not opposed.
The court is not happy with the situation.  The complaint was filed more than two years
ago.  The court simply does not
understand how it could be that the parties are not aware of who the
subcontractors are.  The court does not
believe that defendant has shown diligence here.  (Defendant complains it has not been able to
do an inspection.  The court agrees with
plaintiff, though, that an inspection is premature until all the parties are
present, at least absent extenuating circumstances.  The fault, therefore, once again lies with
the defense.)
That said, the case is also plainly not ready for prime time
and any trial will wind up being a circus. 
The court will give this one and only continuance.  There will be no others absent
extraordinarily good cause.  The court
will discuss timing with the parties. 
The court notes that it is not at all clear that it will allow new
parties to be sued at this time.  A new
party will demand new discovery and that could delay the trial further.  Leave of court will be required to add a
party.  If it is a DOE, a showing will
need to be made as to why the DOE defendant was not known earlier.  The parties should discuss that.
The court will hold a TSC in 30 days, at which point the
court expects the parties to have met and conferred and agreed on a plan and
time-table to bring this case to resolution through trial or otherwise.  The joint plan will be provided 5
court days before the hearing.  While the
court cannot order the parties to agree, it can certainly strongly indicate (as
it is) that reaching an agreement on the plan would be in everyone’s best
interest.  The motion is, therefore,
GRANTED.