 Case Number:  23SMCV00897    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
This is a Song-Beverly case in which plaintiff also alleges
fraud.  Plaintiff alleges that she was in
the market for an electric vehicle, but it was important to her that it could
travel 250 miles on a single charge and that the warranty would cover any
repair (during the warranty period).  She
leased a new Chevy Bolt on May 8, 2021. 
She alleges that she saw various advertisements and publications from
the defense that demonstrated that the range was satisfactory.  She also says that the dealer made similar
representations to her.  She claims,
though, that the car had serious defects including the potential for a battery
fire, seatbelt issues, and other problems. 
Further, she claims that the car did not have the promised range.  Plaintiff says she presented the car to
authorized repair facilities but it has not been fixed.
Defendant previously raised similar concerns in an earlier
demurrer.  The court overruled the
demurrer other than as to the negligent misrepresentation cause of action.  Defendant is precluded from bringing the same
argument again, at least absent a change in the law.  (Such a change might be forthcoming.  Our Supreme Court is considering a certified
question from the Ninth Circuit going to the application of the economic loss
rule in the context of a failure to disclose (Rattagan) and it has held
another case in which the Court of Appeal suggested that a dealer is the manufacturer’s
agent for purposes of representations the dealer makes (Dhital).  While this case is couched at least in part
as an affirmative misrepresentation case—and therefore perhaps beyond the
question in Rattagan—the Dhital case is still of interest.  But so far as the court knows, both cases
remain undecided.)  While the court
agrees it is not “collateral estoppel” (which requires a final judgment), the
court still will not entertain serial demurrers.  Defendant claims that the allegations were
changed, but they were not changed in a material way.  This is just defendant taking a second bit at
the apple.  Because the court will not
keep reconsidering decisions already made, the demurrer as to these causes of
action is OVERRULED.  The court will not
hear argument on this point as the demurrer in this regard is simply
improper.  If the court erred, defendant’s
remedy was to seek writ review.
That leaves negligent misrepresentation, which must be pled
with specificity.  In the current
operative pleading, plaintiff alleges that she met with a salesperson
authorized to speak for the manufacturer; that she asked to see the Bolt
because she felt based on research that it met her needs; that she reviewed the
manufacturer’s advertisements and publications that said that the Bolt could go
259 miles on a single charge and that it could be safely charged indoors in her
home; and that if there was a problem, it would be fixed while under
warranty.  She states that all of these
views were confirmed by the salesperson. 
(FAC, ¶ 8.)  That is
sufficient for pleading purposes.  In
reply, defendant cites (for the first time) Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153.  If defendant
wanted to make a Tarmann argument, it should have done so in the
moving papers.  Nor would that case
really apply.  Plaintiff does not allege
that she called GM’s headquarters and spoke to a corporate officer; she claims
she read marketing materials that GM published. 
GM is in a far better position than is plaintiff to know who inked the
words at issue.  Defendant also argues
that it is not responsible for the dealer’s comments.  That might or might not be the case.  The court will await potential Supreme Court
guidance in Dhital before making a firm decision on this.  The demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of
action, but without prejudice to a motion for summary adjudication on this
point at a later time when it becomes clearer whether plaintiff actually relied
on anything stated directly by GM as opposed to relying only on statements by
the dealer.  Similarly, a motion for
summary adjudication might lie if the undisputed facts show that GM’s only
liability is for nondisclosure and the Supreme Court’s decision in Rattagan
eliminates such liability. 
The motion to strike is DENIED.  The court agrees that punitive damages per
se are not specified under the Song-Beverly Act (rather, there is an
enhanced recovery if certain aspects are shown).  Defendant argues from this basis that
punitive damages are not available at all. 
There is a case that would appear to so hold.  (Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries,
Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218.)  But
more recent authority suggests that both can be awarded to plaintiff so long as
it does not constitute a double recovery. 
(Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946.)  The court believes that Anderson is
well reasoned and the court elects to follow it.  True, a double recovery will not be
permitted, but that is an issue for a later time.  And, of course, the fraud is based on conduct
occurring before the sale (the allegedly false statements made);
Song-Beverly is based on conduct occurring after the sale (the failure
to repair or repurchase).
Defendant has 30 days to answer.