 Case Number:  21SMCV01056    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
SETA, LLC v.
Liberman, et al., Case No. 21SMCV01056
Hearing Date:
September 6, 2024 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Answer to Complaint 
Plaintiff SETA brought a nuisance and ejectment suit
against defendants Liberman, alleging the Libermans encroached onto SETA’s
property. The Libermans seek to leave to file a first amended answer to assert
affirmative defenses that 1) an easement existed and 2) the relative hardship
doctrine. Libermans’ counsel states previous defense counsel did not assert
these affirmative defenses when filing the original answer. Ritter Decl. ¶ 2.
After investigating SETA's claims, defense counsel determined asserting the
additional affirmative defenses is necessary and would provide strong defenses
against SETA’s claims. Id. ¶3.
In opposition, SETA argues the motion fails to
demonstrate diligence because the Libermans failed to show a valid reason for
not seeking the amendment earlier. SETA contends defendants had time to request
permission to file an amended answer since they were served in July 2021 and had
time during discovery, which began in September 2021. 
The court is not persuaded, as the amendment would not
cause a delay in the trial, which is three months away, cost critical evidence,
add preparation costs or increase the burden of discovery. Magpali v.
Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 CA4th 471, 486-488. 
SETA argues, without explanation, that allowing the
amendment would be prejudicial, as it would require naming the City of Los
Angeles. SETA does not explain why the City would be named nor what allegations
might be brought. SETA does not explain how the proposed amendment or addition
of the City causes prejudices. On the other side, defendants would be
significantly prejudiced were they to be precluded from presenting evidence of
an existing easement that would impact the rights of the landowners. There is a
liberal policy regarding amendment of pleadings, and the court exercises its
discretion in this instance. 
The motion includes a redline and clean version of the
proposed Amended Answer. Given that courts should liberally allow amendments to
answer where no prejudice is shown, the court finds leave to be appropriate. Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564. GRANTED. 