 Case Number:  22STCV09271    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Enforce Court  OrderMoving Party: Defendant United Pacific Services Inc.Responding Party: N/A Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDOn April 15, 2024, the Court granted Defendant's motion to compel Raymond Villalobos, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) to submit to a mental examination by Defendant's retained, licensed neuropsychological expert, Kyle B. Boone, Ph.D. Defendant has been attempting to conduct Plaintiff's mental examination since July 2023. An outstanding issue is the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and audio recording of Plaintiff's mental examination. The Court’s April 15 Order also required the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and audio recording of the examination by Plaintiff for the limited purpose of consultation with Plaintiff's own experts and to conduct cross-examination of Defendant's experts. On May 31, 2024, Defendant emailed Plaintiff a letter that “serves as Defendant's reasonable and good faith attempt to meet and confer” with Plaintiff regarding a stipulated protective; however, Plaintiff has not responded. (Exhibit List in Support of Motion to Enforce Plaintiff's Compliance with Order Compelling Mental Examination, Exh. 9.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant requests that the Court grant a motion and issue an Order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and audio recording of the examination to Plaintiff and Defendant's retained, licensed neuropsychological experts. Defendant relies on Plaintiff’s failure to respond to Defendant’s meet and confer attempt to stipulate to the scope of disclosure and permissible uses of Plaintiff’s raw test data and audio. Defendant additionally requests that the Court grant sanctions in the amount of $4,080 for attorney fees.OPPOSITIONNo opposition to Defendant’s motion was filed.ANALYSISI. Motion for Enforce Court Order  The parties must meet and confer in good faith before seeking court intervention. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) At a minimum, each party must confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney and make a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter. Failure to do so is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(i).) Under CCP § 2032.410, where a party is required to submit to a mental examination but fails to do so, the Court may make those orders that are just and may issue sanctions.Here, it is appropriate to enforce the Court’s April 15, 2024 Order and to confine the scope of disclosure of raw test data and audio recording of the examination to Plaintiff and Defendant’s respective licensed neuropsychological experts. In this instance, Defendant has attempted to meet and confer in good faith with Plaintiff in compliance with the Court Order. Moreover, the lack of any opposition by Plaintiff suggests that the Court has no good cause to deny the order. II. Sanctions Based on a $220.00 hourly rate, Defendant requests $4,080.00 in sanctions relating to this motion and the prior motion to compel.  Given that sanctions were not sought previously, the Court does not find it appropriate to include the time to bring the prior motion.  The Court finds a total of six hours to be reasonable for the current motion, plus the $60 filing fee, for a total sanction of $1,380.  RULINGDefendant’s motion for a protective order is thus GRANTED.  Plaintiff is again ordered to attend the mental examination within 45 days.  The scope of disclosure of raw test data and audio recording of the examination is limited to Plaintiff and Defendant’s respective licensed experts. Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel of record is GRANTED in the amount of $1,380.  Sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of Defendant giving notice.