  Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Protective Order Moving Party: Plaintiff Nanette PriceResponding Party: Defendant Salvatore Martinez Tentative Ruling: DenyBACKGROUNDThis is a car crash case. Plaintiff alleges that on November 29, 2019, she suffered severe injuries when a truck driven by Defendant, in the course and scope of his employment for Cal-Quake Construction (Cal-Quake), struck her vehicle. Plaintiff claims several injuries resulted from the incident, including whiplash, neck pain, concussion, post-concussive syndrome, headaches, traumatic brain injury, back pain, cervical-radiculopathy, fatigue, tinnitus, pain, suffering, emotional distress, mental anguish, anxiety, discomfort, depression, fibromyalgia, and dysautonomia. (Declaration of Daniel G. Balich in Support of Opposition to Motion for Protective Order ¶3, Exhibit B.) Plaintiff claims to suffer continuous “cognitive issues such as headaches, fatigue, irritability” and difficulty focusing that have impacted her life, including her marriage and earnings. (Id.) Plaintiff claims she is not seeking damages for injuries above what is usually associated with the physical injuries she suffered.MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues she should not be subject to mental examination by Defendant’s doctor based on her stipulation that she is not seeking damages beyond the “garden variety” pain and suffering caused by her physical injuries. Plaintiff also argues the Court’s December 6, 2023 Order is void and should be vacated for being insufficiently specific.OPPOSITIONDefendant argues Plaintiff has failed to meet the burden of showing good cause for a protective order and that Plaintiff’s stipulation is insufficient to justify a protective order. Defendant also argues the December 6 Order is valid.REPLYPlaintiff reiterates that the Discovery Act mandates the Court grant a protective order in this case because of Plaintiff’s stipulations meeting the requirements.ANALYSISI. Motion for Protective OrderUnder California Code of Civil Procedure Section 2032.320(c), a party can preclude a mental examination by stipulating that they are not seeking damages for mental and emotional distress beyond what is typically associated with their physical injuries. However, when a plaintiff’s claim involves mental suffering that exceeds the ordinary distress that is linked to physical injuries, a plaintiff’s mental state becomes “in controversy” and justifies a mental examination. Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320(b) states that “if a party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c) the court shall not order a mental examination of a person whose personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional circumstances.”In this case, it is inappropriate to vacate the Court’s previous Order and grant a protective order. Plaintiff’s claim involves mental suffering exceeding the ordinary distress linked to physical injuries, putting Plaintiff’s mental state “in controversy” and justifying a mental examination. (See Vinson v. Superior Court, 43 Cal. 3d 833) (a plaintiff alleging severe emotional distress placing his/her mental condition directly at issues warrants a mental examination.) Here, Plaintiff alleges injuries well beyond the ordinary distress associated with her physical injuries, despite Plaintiff’s stipulations purporting to do otherwise. Namely, Plaintiff claims to have suffered a concussion, post-concussive syndrome, headaches, traumatic brain injury, fatigue, tinnitus, pain, suffering, emotional distress, mental anguish, anxiety, discomfort, depression, fibromyalgia, and dysautonomia. (Balich Decl. ¶4, Exhibit C.) Moreover, Plaintiff claims to continue suffering from “cognitive issues such as headaches, fatigue, irritability; difficulty with focusing” in addition to “chronic post-concussive syndrome, cognitive fatigue secondary to the brain injury, trauma-induced fibromyalgia, and trauma-induced dysautonomia, among other conditions” that Plaintiff has expressed that “will last indefinitely.” (Id.) Indeed, Plaintiff claimed the end of her marriage was in part a result of her brain injury. (Id.) These claims intrinsically allege harms beyond regular distress caused by a physical injury; as a result, Plaintiff’s vague stipulation claiming otherwise does not change the extraordinary nature of the harms Plaintiff alleges. The Court thus finds Plaintiff’s mental health remains in controversy and may be subject to mental examination.Plaintiff incorrectly relies on Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) (141 Cal. App.4th 249.) In Carpenter, the court found that a medical examination notice violated Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 because it did not specify the diagnostic tests and procedures that were to take place. The court in Carpenter makes clear that the defendant, “aware that the court must name the diagnostic tests and procedures in the order granting a mental examination, will identify the potential tests and procedures in its moving papers.” (Id. at 267.) Accordingly, the Court’s December 6 Order, by granting Defendant’s motion, was specific by accepting the proposed medical examinations described in Defendant’s moving papers. (Balich Decl., p. 44.) Here, Defendant provided a list of examinations in his moving papers, as well as the estimated amount of time completing the examination will take. (Id.) As a result, the Court’s December 6 Order remains valid.RULINGPlaintiff’s motion for a protective order is DENIED.