 Case Number:  22STCV05768    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV05768




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jesus Sanchez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed February 27, 2024 to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Jayleen Sanchez, age 12. The
Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 8, which should
contain medical records and/or a medical report or other evidence confirming
that Claimant is fully recovered.   
 
As indicated in the prior petition, Petitioner must state
the terms of the settlement in item 10c. 
 
Petitioner must select a box in item 11b(2).
 
Counsel’s declaration in attachment 11b(3) indicates that
counsel is representing all Plaintiffs in this action. (See Zaimi Decl. ¶ 2.) This
conflicts with item 17e of the petition, and the fact that other plaintiffs are
receiving a settlement in this matter. (See item 11b(5).) If this is true, then
item 17e must be amended and attachment 17e must be included. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 18b(2).
 
Petitioner must complete
and file form MC-355 separately.
 
For form MC-351, Petitioner
should use the most recent form instead. (Rev. Jan. 1, 2021.) Petitioner should
select and complete item 2b since this was not an expedited minors’ compromise.
Item 3b should also be checked. Item 7a should contain the gross settlement
amount. $701.18 should be in item 7c(1)(b). Item 7c(1)(c)(i)(B) must be completed. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 