 Case Number:  23STCV13811    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV13811




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Respondent
  Commerce West Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


Petitioner
  Yukinari Yamamoto



 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 15, 2023, Petitioner Yukinari Yamamoto filed a
“Petition to Bring Uninsured Motorist Arbitration under Court’s
Jurisdiction.”  Yamamoto’s petition was filed pursuant to Insurance Code
§11580.2(f)(2) and Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 913, 921-926.  Petitioner filed the petition to bring before
the court a discovery dispute between parties to the pending Uninsured Motorist
Arbitration (the “Arbitration”).   
 
The arbitration and this petition arise from an automobile
collision that occurred on September 15, 2020.  The at-fault driver, Yaris
Rodriguez, was operating her vehicle without adequate insurance. 
 
On September 19, 2023, the Court granted Petitioner’s motion for
issuance of an order granting a commission to take the deposition of Wendy
Parton (“Parton”), outside of California. Parton lives in Arizona and is the
insurance adjuster assigned by Respondent Commerce West Insurance
Company (“Respondent”) to this claim. The Court granted the motion without
prejudice to Respondent raising its objections in a motion for protective order
or to quash, once the deposition notice was issued and served in Arizona. (Min.
Order, 9/19/23.) 
 
On
November 29, 2023, Petitioner served a deposition subpoena for Parton, set to
take place on December 29, 2023. 
 
 Respondent now moves to quash
the subpoena, or for a protective order, arguing that it is burdensome,
harassing, and oppressive, and protected by the attorney client privilege and
work product doctrine. Petitioner opposes and Respondent replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b).)  
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
Attorney-Client
Privilege
 
“The
attorney-client privilege is codified in [Evidence Code] sections 950 through
962. The term ‘confidential communication between client and lawyer’ includes
‘information transmitted between a client and his ... lawyer in the course of
that relationship and in confidence....’ (§ 952.) If a ‘confidential
communication between client and lawyer’ exists, the client has a privilege
protecting disclosure (§ 954), and the attorney has an obligation to refuse
disclosure unless otherwise instructed by the client. (§ 955.) While
attorney-client communications are presumed to be confidential (§ 917), the
party claiming the attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the
burden of showing that the communication sought to be suppressed falls within
the parameters of the privilege.” (Scripps Health v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533.) “An attorney-client relationship exists
for purposes of the privilege whenever a person consults an attorney for the
purpose of obtaining the attorney's legal service or advice.” (Kerner v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 84, 116–17; see Evid. Code §§ 951,
954.) 
 
“When
a party asserts the attorney-client privilege it is incumbent upon that party
to prove the preliminary fact that a privilege exists. [Citation.]” (State
Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625,
639.) 
 
The
privilege may not be used to shield facts, as opposed to communications, from
discovery. (Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP v Superior Court (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
1214, 1226.) Relevant facts may not be withheld solely because they were
incorporated into a communication involving an attorney, and knowledge that is
not otherwise privileged does not become so by being communicated to an
attorney. (Id.) “On the other hand, the privilege bars discovery of a
privileged communication irrespective of whether it includes unprivileged
material; ‘when the communication is a confidential one between attorney and
client, the entire communication, including its recitation or summary of
factual material, is privileged.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at 1226–27.)
 
Work Product Doctrine 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.030 states the
following: 
 
“(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under
any circumstances. 
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a writing
described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court determines
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in
preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an injustice.” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subpoena at issue asked for the personal appearance of Wendy
Parton (“Parton”) and Production of Documents and Things scheduled to take
place on December 29, 2023 in Tempe, Arizona. Respondent argues the subpoena is
burdensome, oppressive, harassing, and not reasonably calculated to lead to
discoverable evidence. Respondent also argues that Parton’s knowledge is
protected by the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine. 
 
Respondent argues that Parton’s sole connection to this matter is as a
Claim Consultant and primary contact for Respondent’s counsel. (Motion, 4.) As
a result, Respondent argues that any knowledge by Parton is “inextricably
intertwined” with the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine.
(Marchesini Decl. ¶ 10.) Parton did not witness the accident and has no
personal knowledge of Petitioner’s injuries. The issues in this arbitration are
based on a claim for uninsured motorist coverage, and therefore are limited to
liability for the accident, causation, and Petitioner’s damages. 
 
            In opposition, Petitioner argues Parton verified
Respondent’s discovery responses, and due to the inadequacy of said responses,
Parton’s testimony is required. 
 
            The Declaration of Michael Marchesini repeats the
argument that because Parton was not a witness to the accident, and is the
primary contact to Respondent’s counsel, that all communications are covered by
the attorney-client privilege. 
 
However, no
privilege log has been provided to the Court, and therefore the Court is unable
to find that all testimony and documents sought are covered by the attorney-client
privilege or work product protection. Petitioner appears to seek to depose Ms.
Parton for the purpose of discovering the process by which responses to form
interrogatories were prepared. (Motion at Exh. D [demand for production of
documents]; Opposition at p. 4.) To the extent that the deposition seeks to
discover if any relevant communications or documents exist that are not covered
by the attorney-client privilege or the work product protection, seeks to
discover the process by which discovery responses were prepared, and seeks to
discover facts to challenge claims of privilege, the deposition appears to seek
discoverable, non-privileged testimony. With these limited purposes, the motion
to quash is denied. 
 
            Therefore,
the motion to quash and, alternatively, for a protective order, is denied. 
 
The Court
declines to award monetary sanctions, without evidence that this motion was
made in bad faith. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Respondent’s motion to quash Petitioner’s subpoena.

 
Respondent to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 