 Case Number:  21STCV28144    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28144




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ken Robinson 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Ken Robinson (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Bright Path Center, Lanika Beard, and Does 1 to 20
for alleged injuries resulting from bed bugs. On May 1, 2023, Bright Path
Center filed an answer. On August 2, 2023, the Court held an OSC re: dismissal
for failure to serve Defendant Lanika Beard. Plaintiff represented that both
defendants had been served and would file a proof of service. The Court then
set an OSC re: dismissal and/or sanctions for failure to serve the summons and
complaint within two years of filing the complaint. 
 
 On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff
filed proof of substitute service of the summons and complaint on Bright Path
Center and Lanika Beard that occurred on January 26, 2023.
 
On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration in
response to the upcoming OSC. 
 
On September 20, 2023, the Court held the OSC re: dismissal and/or
sanctions for failure to serve. The Court determined that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration failed to provide good cause pursuant to California Rule of Court
2.30(b). Plaintiff requested to be heard and the matter was placed on second
call. The Court then imposed $250 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed this motion to set
aside the order of sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b).[1] No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party or legal
representative from an order or other proceeding taken against him through his
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  This application must be filed no more than
six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought, and must
contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].” (Id.)

 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the order.
However, the mandatory provision does not apply since the order imposing
monetary sanctions was not the equivalent of a dismissal motion. 
            
            The
Declaration of Ilan N. Rosen Janfaza states that counsel mistakenly believed
that the answer filed on May 2, 2023 pertained to both defendants. Counsel
fails to show excusable neglect since there is no stated reason why counsel
believed the answer pertained to both defendants. (Janfaza Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore,
it does not appear a reasonably prudent person would have made this error. 
 
            Counsel
further declares that counsel failed to serve both plaintiffs within 60 days
“due to a mistake by counsel and not realizing that this honorable court would
impose sanctions for failure to serve within 60 days, as this department’s
prior judge did not sanction for failure to serve within 60 days and offered
always one last opportunity for a case to be served prior to the next hearing
date.” (Janfaza Decl. ¶ 3.) Counsel further declares that he “mistakenly
believed that all proofs of service were filed with this honorable court prior
to the August 2, 2023 hearing.” (Id. ¶ 6.)
 
As an initial matter, California
Rule of Court 3.110(b) requires the complaint to be served on all named
defendants and proofs of service on those defendants to be filed within 60 days
after the filing of the complaint. California Rule of Court 2.30(b) provides
that the court may order a person, after written notice and an opportunity to
be heard, to pay reasonable monetary sanctions to the court for failure without
good cause to comply with the applicable rules. These rules were in effect when
the complaint in this case was filed on July 30, 2021. On September 7, 2023, a
proof of substituted service was filed, attaching a declaration of diligence
indicating four attempts of personal service in January 2023. No other evidence
was provided of attempts to serve within 60 days of filing the complaint, or at
any time during 2021 or 2022. Indeed, no attempt at service was apparently made
until the day after the Final Status Conference in this case on January 13,
2023, when the Court vacated dates due to Plaintiff’s failure to serve. (See
Declaration of Diligence of Proof of Substituted Service of Lanika Beard
[noting attempts on January 14, 17, 20, 23 of 2023].) Plaintiff was then
granted over 6 more months and the matter was set for an OSC re Dismissal for
Failure to Serve on August 2, 2023. Plaintiff did not file the proofs of
service until September 7, 2023. Accordingly, the Court did not find good cause
and ordered monetary sanctions.
 
The Court notes that even under the
facts as represented by counsel that the prior judge “offered one last
opportunity,” counsel did not comply by not filing the proofs of service prior
to August 2, 2023. Moreover, counsel offers no explanation for the “mistaken[]
belie[f]” that the proofs of service were filed prior to August 2, 2023. “
‘Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when
‘the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is simply the result of professional
incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in
discovering the law…’ [citation omitted]. Further, ‘[t]he term ‘surprise,’ as
used in section 473, refers to ‘some condition or situation in which a party …
is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his
own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.’ [citation
omitted]. Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under
section 473 a litigant’s neglect must have been such as might have been the act
of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.” (Henderson v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229-30
[citations omitted].) To the extent that counsel’s reliance on a prior judge’s
“practice,” the existence of which there is insufficient evidence, constitutes
excusable neglect, counsel does not explain the mistake in not following that
judge’s practice.
 
            Accordingly, the Court denies the
motion to set aside the order imposing monetary sanctions. 
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the September
20, 2023 order imposing monetary sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


