 Case Number:  23STCV31222    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MARGIT STEVENS, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA
  ANTHEM BLUE CROSS, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV31222




Hearing Date:


August 15, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY TRIAL COURT PROCEEDINGS




Background
Plaintiffs Margit Stevens and Nathaniel
Stevens (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on December 21, 2023 against
Defendants Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Life and
Health Insurance Company. 
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint on December 28, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1) negligence
and (2) promissory fraud. 
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
and Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company (erroneously sued as
Anthem Life and Health Insurance Company) (jointly, “Defendants”) now petition the
Court for an order: (1) compelling Plaintiffs to submit their claims against Defendants
to binding arbitration and (2) staying trial court proceedings pending a ruling
on the petition and until the arbitration is concluded. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion 
A.   
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in support of the opposition, Plaintiffs submit
the Declaration of Adrian J. Barrio. Exhibit 2 to Mr. Barrio’s declaration is redacted.
(Barrio Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.)   
Plaintiffs filed a notice of lodging with the opposition indicating that
“Plaintiffs Ryan Williford and Tangi Williford[1]
have lodged with the Court the following unredacted document designated by
Defendants as confidential: 1. Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 2: Administrative Services
Agreement between Anthem and CVT. DEFENDANTS ARE HEREBY NOTICED that if they
fail to file a motion or an application to seal the record within 10 days or
obtain a court order extending the time to file such a motion or application,
the Clerk will promptly transfer the lodged document to the public file
pursuant to Rule 2.551 of the
California Rules of Court. The lodged document will remain conditionally under
seal until the Court rules on a motion or application or as otherwise ordered
by the Court.” (Plaintiffs’ Notice of Lodging at p. 1:2-12.) 
            It appears Plaintiffs may be
referring to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subdivision (b)(3), which provides, “(3) Procedure for party not intending to file motion or
application
 
(A) A party that files or intends to file with the
court, for the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records produced
in discovery that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective
order, and does not intend to request to have the records sealed, must:
(i) Lodge the unredacted records subject to the
confidentiality agreement or protective order and any pleadings,
memorandums, declarations, and other documents that disclose the contents of
the records, in the manner stated in (d);
 
(ii) File copies of the documents in (i) that are
redacted so that they do not disclose the contents of the records that are
subject to the confidentiality agreement or protective order; and
 
(iii) Give written notice to the party that produced
the records that the records and the other documents lodged under (i) will be
placed in the public court file unless that party files a timely motion or
application to seal the records under this rule.
 
(B) If the party that produced the documents and was served with the
notice under (A)(iii) fails to file a motion or an application to seal the
records within 10 days or to obtain a court order extending the time to file
such a motion or an application, the clerk must promptly transfer all the
documents in (A)(i) from the envelope, container, or secure electronic file to
the public file. If the party files a motion or an application to seal within
10 days or such later time as the court has ordered, these documents are to
remain conditionally under seal until the court rules on the motion or
application and thereafter are to be filed as ordered by the court.” (Emphasis
added.) 
As set forth above, California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (b)(3) applies to “[a] party that files or intends to file with the court, for
the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records produced in discovery
that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective order…” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(3)(A).)
Plaintiffs do not appear to provide any evidence that Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 2 is
subject to a confidentiality agreement or protective order. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that California Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subdivision (b)(3) is applicable here. Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (a), “[a]
record must not be filed under seal without a court order. The court must not
permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or
stipulation of the parties.” In addition, “[a]
party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551,
subd. (b)(2).)  
In light of the foregoing, the hearing on Defendants’
petition to compel arbitration and stay trial court proceedings is continued to
____________, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. If Plaintiffs seek to seal the
subject Exhibit 2, Plaintiffs must immediately file a motion or application to
seal pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.550,
et seq.¿If Plaintiffs do not seek to seal the subject document, Plaintiffs
must immediately file with the Court an unredacted version of Exhibit 2.    
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of
this Order.     ¿  
 
DATED:  August 15, 2024                             
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


