 Case Number:  23STCV11962    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion
to Compel Binding Arbitration 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America moves to
compel arbitration of this action by plaintiff Julio Cesar Mejia Sorto.
Defendant
relies on two arbitration provisions: one in the purchase contract between
plaintiff and non-party dealership Downey Hyundai (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2) and
another in the plaintiff’s vehicle’s Owner’s Handbook & Warranty
Information (id., Ex. 3).  Defendant
is entitled to enforce the latter arbitration provision.
            Section 4 of Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information provides: “If you
purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you and we
each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any
of our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle
purchase, use of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in the
warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty, including without
limitation claims related to the failure to conform a vehicle to warranty,
failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims for a refund or
partial refund of your vehicle’s purchase price (excluding personal injury
claims), but excluding claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act,
shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our election, even
if the claim is initially filed in a court of law.”  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, p. 13.) 
            This section further
provides, “This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly interpreted
and to make all disputes and claims between us (including our affiliated
companies) relating to or arising out of your vehicle purchase, use of your
vehicle, or the vehicle warranty subject to arbitration to the maximum extent
permitted by law.”  (Ameripour Decl., Ex.
3, p. 13.)  
Finally, section 4 provides, “If you purchased or leased your vehicle in
California, your warranty is made subject to the terms of this binding
arbitration provision.  By accepting
benefits under this warranty, including having any repairs performed under
warranty, you agree to be bound by these terms.  If you do not agree with these terms, please
contact us at opt-out@hmausa.com within thirty (30) days of your purchase or
lease to opt-out of this arbitration provision.”  (Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, p. 14.)
Defendant can enforce this
arbitration agreement.  “[A] nonsignatory
‘is estopped from avoiding arbitration if it knowingly seeks the benefits of
the contract containing the arbitration clause.’ ”  (Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old
Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070.)  This action seeks the benefits of the express
written warranty (Comp., ¶¶ 11-14, 19, 26, 30), which contains the arbitration
clause.     
Plaintiff’s
opposition only briefly addresses the arbitration provision in the Owner’s
Handbook & Warranty Information.  A
footnote states: “Defendant contends that it can compel arbitration through
either the Arbitration Agreement found in the original February 28, 2021
Purchase Agreement between Plaintiff and the non-party selling dealership; and
through an alleged post-sale ‘Arbitration Agreement’ found buried within the
HMA’s fifty-page Warranty Booklet.  However,
it is admittedly a non-signatory to the Purchase Agreement.”  (Opp., p. 1, fn. 1.)  The opposition further argues plaintiff makes
no claims based on “any of the terms found within the post-sale ‘Arbitration
Agreement’ buried with the fifty (50) pages of HMA’s Warranty Booklet.”  (Id., p. 3.)  
Arguing the provision is “buried” concerns
procedural unconscionability.  Plaintiff
does not show the agreement is unconscionable. 
“Generally, the burden is on the party
opposing arbitration to show an arbitration agreement is unconscionable.”  (Saheli v. White Memorial Medical Center
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.) 
Unconscionability requires both procedural and substantive
unconscionability using a sliding scale. 
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 185.)  “Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  
Assuming that being “buried” in a large booklet shows some procedural
unconscionability, plaintiff shows no
substantive unconscionability as required. 
Plaintiff makes no attempt to do so. 
The arbitration provision in the Owner’s Handbook and Warranty
Information is fair and mutual.  
Disposition
            Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted.  Plaintiff Julio Cesar
Mejia Sorto is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendant Hyundai Motor America.  The court hereby stays the entire action
pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.