  Case Number:  22STCV01510    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants Paul Sandweiss and Christian Schrader’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants Paul Sandweiss and
Christian Schrader demur to the sixth and seventh causes of action alleged in
plaintiff Robert La Masney’s first amended complaint.  
A. Continuous Membership
Defendants argue plaintiff lacks
standing to pursue derivative causes of action on behalf of nominal defendant
Crowd Control Group, LLC (Crowd Control) because he does not meet the
continuous membership requirement.  To
bring a derivative action on behalf of a limited liability company, the
plaintiff must allege he “was a member, of record or beneficially, at the time
of the transaction or any part of the transaction of which the plaintiff
complains.”  (Corp. Code, §
17709.02(a)(1).)  “[S]ection 17709.02 requires
both ‘contemporaneous’ membership—meaning the party seeking to bring a
derivative claim was a member in the LLC at the time of the challenged
transaction (or became a member by gaining an interest from a party who was a
member at the time of the transaction)—and ‘continuous’ membership—meaning the
party was a member throughout the litigation of a derivative claim.”  (Sirott v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 371, 381–382 (Sirott).)
Plaintiff meets the continuous
membership requirement.  The dissolution
or cancellation of Crowd Control Group, LLC does not prohibit plaintiff from
doing so.  “The shareholders of a
dissolved corporation do not cease to exist as shareholders, nor do they lose
all interest in, or responsibility for, the affairs of the corporation upon
dissolution.”  (Favila v. Katten
Muchin Rosenman LLP (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 189, 213 (Favila)
[corporation, not LLC].)  Favila
expressly rejected defendants’ position for derivative actions on behalf of
dissolved corporations.  There, the
defendant argued the plaintiff “was divested of ownership in [the corporation]
upon dissolution of the company” and therefore “it did not own stock at the
time the action was filed and is not able to satisfy the continuous ownership
requirement.”  (Id. at p. 215.)
The Court of Appeal reasoned: “The argument dissolution essentially eliminates the corporation’s
shareholders and their interest in the dissolved corporate entity is
fundamentally at odds with the statutory scheme governing dissolution…  .  Just
as the dissolved corporation continues to exist for purposes including
prosecuting and defending actions by or against it [citation], the shareholders
continue to exist and to have rights and potential liabilities with respect to
the dissolved corporation.”  (Favila,
supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at p. 215.)  “[A]s a matter of public policy, since the
shareholders may be responsible for postdissolution claims against the
corporation, there is no reason to deny them the right to bring a derivative
action, which may benefit them postdissolution, as long as the requirements of
Corporations Code section 800 are met.” 
(Ibid.)
Though Favila concerns corporations, courts apply the same
standards to LLCs.  Defendants rely on Sirott,
which did just that.  (Sirott, supra,
78 Cal.App.5th at pp. 381-383.)  “ ‘The
principles governing derivative actions in the context of corporations apply to
limited liability companies.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 381.)  Sirott does not apply
because the LLC was not dissolved in that case. 
The plaintiff did “not meet the continuous membership requirement, because in 2019 it
relinquished its membership interest in” the LLC.  (Id. at p. 383.)  In the transaction where plaintiff
relinquished its membership, “[t]he agreement provided that” the defendant LLC
“was not thereby dissolved.”  (Id.
at p. 378.)  The plaintiff instead
“transferred its 50 percent membership interest in” the defendant LLC, which
continued to exist.  (Ibid.)  Moreover,
Sirott relies on Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100—which Favila
analyzes and concludes does not apply to dissolved corporations.  (Favila, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at pp.
214-217.)  
Defendants’ reply does not address Favila, which is
directly on point.            
B. Injury to Company
In their reply, defendants argue plaintiff cannot bring a derivative action
because the injury was to him personally, not the LLC. By failing to
raise this issue in their opening brief, defendants deprived plaintiff of a
fair opportunity to respond.  (See Pereda v. Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 759, 766.)  
In any
case, the court rejects defendants’ new argument on the merits.  “A minority shareholder may bring a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty against majority shareholders as an individual claim
or as a derivative claim, depending on the circumstances.”  (Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 126, 149 (Schrage).) “A single cause of action by a
shareholder can give rise to derivative claims, individual claims, or both.’
”  (Ibid.)  
Defendants’ reliance on Jara v.
Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1238 (Jara) is unpersuasive.  Jara is distinguishable because it did
not hold a minority shareholder lacked standing to bring a derivative action
against the majority shareholders.  It
held the opposite: the law on derivative actions did not “bar[] [a minority
shareholder] from bringing an individual action claiming damages” (id.
at p. 1259), and “the trial court erred in dismissing [a] cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty on the ground that the claim could only be asserted in
a derivative action” (id. at p. 1252). 
 
Moreover, Jara acknowledges
prior contrary authority.  (Jara,
supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 1257.)  The
Schrage court criticized Jara. 
(Schrage, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at p. 155 [“We have some doubt
whether Jara was correctly decided”].) 
To the extent Jara and Schrage conflict, the court finds Schrage
more persuasive.  (See Auto Equity
Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57
Cal.2d 450, 456 [trial court “can and must make a choice between the
conflicting decisions”].)  
Motion to Strike
            Defendants
Paul Sandweiss and Christian Schrader move to strike nine portions of plaintiff
Robert La Masney’s first amended complaint. 

A. Reinstatement of LLC
Defendants move to strike four
portions of the first amended complaint regarding reinstatement of Crowd
Control under Government Code section 12261. 
Their arguments, however, improperly rely on extrinsic evidence.  “The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a); accord CPF Agency Corp. v. R&S Towing
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1032.)
Defendants argue, “Contrary to
Plaintiff’s allegations in the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff participated
and voted in that meeting.”  (Motion, p.
6, citing Ex. C, meeting minutes.)  On a
motion to strike, the court accepts plaintiff’s allegations as true.  In a footnote, defendants request judicial
notice of Crowd Control’s certificate of cancellation.  (Id., fn. 1.)  They do not request judicial notice of
exhibit C, the minutes of a meeting of the LLC’s members.  Even if they had done so, these meeting
minutes are not subject to judicial notice. 
(See Evid. Code, § 452.)  Any
defect in plaintiff’s prayer for reinstatement does not appear from the face of
the first amended complaint.
B. Accounting
            Defendants
move to strike two portions of the first amended complaint seeking an
accounting.  An accounting claim requires
“ ‘that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an
accounting.’ ”  (Sass v. Cohen (2020)
10 Cal.5th 861, 869.)  Defendants again
improperly rely on extrinsic evidence.  They
argue plaintiff’s allegation that Sandweiss refused “to provide the financial
documents requested” (FAC, ¶ 69) “is false.” 
(Motion, p. 7.)  But at this stage
in the proceedings under these circumstances, the court must accept that
allegation as true.  Moreover, even if
defendants have “ ‘produced hundreds of documents during discovery’ ” (ibid.),
that does not necessarily mean those documents are complete and include
everything necessary to determine plaintiff’s alleged damages.
C. Punitive Damages
            Defendants move to strike three
portions of the first amended complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts may strike allegations related to
punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory
allegations are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The complaint
must make “factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with
oppression, fraud or malice.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to recover punitive
damages.  One of the primary events
giving rise to this action is the allegation that defendants dissolved Crowd
Control to avoid paying plaintiff hundreds of thousands of dollars for his
membership interest.  The first amended
complaint alleges, “In or about August, 2020, La Masney gave notice of his
intention to retire pursuant to paragraph 9.1.6 of the [Operating]
Agreement.  This act triggered a ‘Buy Out
Event’ under the Agreement.”  (FAC, ¶
16.)  Defendants “offered to pay him
$200,000 for his interest.”  (¶ 17.)  Plaintiff wanted $660,000.  (Ibid.)  “The parties were unable to reach agreement
regarding the value of the Company and reached an impasse with respect to
completing the buy-out of La Masney.”  (¶
18.)  
The first amended complaint further
alleges Crowd Control’s operating agreement “sets forth a detailed procedure
for determining the Company’s value in the event the parties are unable to
reach an agreement regarding the value of the Company.”  (¶ 19.) 
“Rather than follow the provisions of the Agreement to buy-out La
Masney, Sandweiss instead unilaterally elected to dissolve the Company --
solely in order to avoid buying out La Masney. 
Plaintiff is informed and believes that Schrader joined Sandweiss in this
decision and related conduct.”  (¶
20.)  After dissolving the company,
“Sandweiss and Schrader continued to carry out the business of the Company …
for various clients of the Company.”  (¶
22.) 
Plaintiff thus alleges defendants knew he had a
right to be bought out, potentially for $200,000 or more.  He alleges that instead of doing that, they perpetrated
a scheme to dissolve the company specifically to avoid paying him.  Defendants then allegedly continued to
operate the same business with some of the same clients.  The court cannot conclude that, as a matter of
law at the pleadings stage, such conduct does not constitute malice,
oppression, or fraud as required for punitive damages.   
Disposition
            Defendants
Paul Sandweiss and Christian Schrader’s demurrer is overruled.
            Defendants
Paul Sandweiss and Christian Schrader’s motion to strike is denied.
Defendants Paul Sandweiss and
Christian Schrader are ordered to answer within 20 days.