 Case Number:  22STCV26025    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
RINALDO ALBERICO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV26025
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s pitchess motion  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 11, 2022, Plaintiff
Rinaldo Alberico filed this action against Defendant County of Los Angeles,
asserting causes of action for discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and
failure to prevent. Plaintiff alleges that he was fired after reporting numerous
instances of other deputies using racial slurs against him. 
            On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to obtain personnel records pertaining to himself and Deputy
Errol Payne. Defendant filed its opposition on November 27, 2023. Plaintiff
filed his reply on December 1, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
In general, the personnel records of peace
officers are protected from discovery pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The
exclusive means for obtaining these materials is through a Pitchess motion. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1611.) A
Pitchess motion shall (1) identify the proceeding in which discovery or
disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or
custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has
custody and control of the record, and the time and place at which the motion
for discovery or disclosure shall be heard, (2) describe the type of records or
information sought, and (3) present affidavits showing good cause for the
discovery or disclosure sought. (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)
The standard of “good cause” required for
Pitchess disclosure is “relatively relaxed” to “insure the production” for
trial court review of “all potentially relevant documents.” (People v.
Gaines (2009) 46 Cal.4th 172, 179.) Good cause for discovery exists when
the party shows (1) materiality to the subject matter of the pending litigation
and (2) a reasonable belief that the agency has the type of information sought.
(Becerrada v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 409, 413.) A
sufficient threshold showing is established if the party seeking records
demonstrates through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Riske
v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655.)
If the trial court finds good cause for
the discovery, it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only
that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of relevance.
(Evid. Code, § 1045; Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011,
1027.) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff has set forth good cause
for the requested documents. Plaintiff is entitled to discover a potential
history of discriminatory acts by the officer allegedly responsible for discriminating
against him. (Orloff Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff is entitled to prove that he made
multiple complaints of discrimination and that Defendant was aware of such. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff is also entitled to documents showing if or how Defendant responded
to reports of discrimination. (Id., ¶ 6, 9.) Plaintiff is entitled to records
related to his own transfer and termination. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7, 10.) This
meets the relatively low threshold for establishing good cause. 
Defendant’s opposition does not identify
any particular request as problematic or explain how, beyond arguing that the
requests are generally overbroad as to time. The records will be limited to five
years preceding the alleged wrongdoing. Prior complaints are also limited to those
concerning discrimination and harassment based on race and age, the same types
of discrimination alleged by Plaintiff.    
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s Pitchess motion is
GRANTED. Concerning Deputy Payne, production is limited to five years preceding
the incidents in question, and prior complaints are limited to those concerning
discrimination and harassment based on race and age.  Concerning Plaintiff, plaintiff is entitled to
copies of his personnel records involving his termination and reason for Plaintiff
not being permitted to work in Court Services.
The Court will conduct an in-camera
hearing in accordance with statutory requirements. The production shall be
subject to a protective order.   
            