  Case Number:  20STCV49231    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LEONARD KYLE DYKSTRA, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV49231
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Jane Doe filed this action
against Leonard Dykstra and numerous other defendants on December 24, 2020. On
July 3, 2023, the Court dismissed the action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.420(a)(1) for failure to prosecute. Plaintiff did not
appear for the hearing on the order to show cause. 
            On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a motion to set aside the dismissal on the grounds that Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to appear at the OSC due to a calendaring error. The Court
denied this motion on October 23, 2023, finding that Plaintiff’s failure to
prosecute warranted dismissal regardless of counsel’s appearance at the OSC. 
            On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion for reconsideration of the Court’s October 23 ruling. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to
the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
Additionally, “the trial court retains the
inherent authority to change its decision at any time prior to the entry of
judgment.” (Darling v. Kritt (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1148, 1156.) “[S]ection
1008 does not govern the court's ability, on its own motion, to reevaluate
its own interim rulings.” (Ibid.) “[T]he only requirement of the court
is that it exercise ‘due consideration’ before modifying, amending, or revoking
its prior orders.” (Id. at p. 1157.)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves for reconsideration
on the grounds that new facts or circumstances warrant granting her prior
motion for relief. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that the staff attorney
assigned to her case, Adam Carralejo, abandoned the case by missing an April
2023 OSC, failing to file a proof of service demonstrating service on Defendant
Dykstra, and failing to properly update the firm’s lead attorney, Gloria
Martinez, before Martinez filed the motion to vacate. Plaintiff claims that
this resulted in the motion to vacate being poorly written, leading to its
denial. Plaintiff claims that the motion omits facts such as: (i) two of the
Defendants were out of state, tolling the statute of limitations; and (ii) a First
Amended Complaint had been prepared, removing all defendants except Dykstra and
Curtis Olson. 
            None of the contentions made in
Plaintiff’s motion are supported by evidence. There is still no indication in
the record that Plaintiff served any defendant in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.420. Plaintiff claims to have attached a proof of service
as Exhibit A to her declaration, but no declaration or exhibit has been filed. Because
Plaintiff failed to prosecute her case within the time limits prescribed by the
Code, the Court properly dismissed the case and properly denied Plaintiff’s
motion to vacate the dismissal. There are no new facts or circumstances warranting
reconsideration.
            It should also be noted that Plaintiff
filed this motion as a self-represented plaintiff.  However, the court docket shows that Plaintiff
is still represented by counsel.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 