  Case Number:  23AHCV00081    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JESUS TUCKER,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HAIG
   CHIROPRACTIC CORP., P.C., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00081
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY DEFENDANTS HAIG CHIROPRACTIC CORP.,
  P.C., HLC HEALTH CORP. aka THE JOINT CHIROPRACTIC, AND VINCENT S. MANFRE, D.C
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   9, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          Plaintiff
Jesus Tucker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on January 12, 2023, asserting a
single cause of action for professional negligence against defendants Haig
Chiropractic Corp., P.C. (“Haig”), HLC Health Corp. aka The Joint Chiropractic
(“The Joint”) and Vincent S. Manfre, D.C. (“Dr. Manfre”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). Plaintiff allegedly sought chiropractic care from Dr. Manfre on
or about February 12, 2022, after sustaining neck and lower back injuries in a
motor vehicle accident which occurred in 2017. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges
Dr. Manfre had a duty to review his medical file and if he had done so, he
would never have attempted to adjust Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges Dr. Manfre
breached his duty of care by adjusting his neck and back, which resulted in him
becoming hemi-paralyzed the following day on the left side for 10 days.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) 
          On April 25,
2024, Defendants filed this motion for summary judgment/adjudication. 
          On July 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
          On July 30,
2024, Defendants filed their reply brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
IV.    EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
          Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Wayne Whalen, D.C. are OVERRULED.  The declaration is not an improper expert
opinion because Dr. Whalen establishes a factual basis for his expert opinion.
Further, the declaration is not subject to objections on the grounds of hearsay
insofar as it refers to the medical records because medical records are
business records and an exception to the hearsay rule. The objections to the
Declaration of Jeffrey Wang, M.D. are also OVERRULED for the same reasons. 
          Defendants’
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Bruce A. Wasserman are SUSTAINED.
Defendants argue that Dr. Wasserman is unqualified to provide an expert opinion
as to the care and treatment provided by Defendants. As discussed further
below, the Court agrees. 
V.     DISCUSSION
A. Motion for Summary Judgment
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]” (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action
must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from
finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.” (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) “When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.)
          Defendants argue that
Plaintiff cannot establish a breach of the applicable standard of care. Wayne
Whalen, D.C. (“Dr. Whalen”), is a licensed and practicing chiropractor who has
reviewed Plaintiff’s medical records, pleadings, and discovery responses.
(Whalen Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Dr. Whalen
opines, based on his review of the records, education, background, and
experience, that the care provided by Defendants, including Dr. Manfre, was
within the standard of care at all times. Dr. Whalen states that complaints of
sciatic pain and low back pain in the context of a pre-existing low back
injury, including but not limited to disc protrusions, disc extrusions, and/or
herniated discs, are routinely evaluated and treated by chiropractors. (Whalen
Decl., ¶50.) Dr. Whalen also states that there were no contraindications for
chiropractic treatment from January 27 to February 12, 2022, such as an acute
change in Plaintiff’s condition, “saddle anesthesia”, or progressive
neurological signs or symptoms. (Whalen Decl., ¶ 51.) Dr. Whalen also opines
that providing manual spinal manipulation and adjustment was appropriate and
within the standard of care, as supported by Plaintiff’s reports that he felt
better after receiving them on January 27 and February 12, 2022, and the lack
of any complaints of increased pain or injury on January 27 or February 5, 9,
or 12, 2022. (Whalen Decl., ¶ 54.) Plaintiff reported a “flare up” on February
19, 2022, which was addressed by providing spinal adjustments using a
drop-table, and Plaintiff reported that he felt better after receiving this
treatment.  (Whalen Decl., ¶¶ 55-56.) Dr.
Whalen states that any “flare up” or injuries claimed did not occur as a result
of any breach of the standard of care, but a manifestation of the known risks
of undergoing chiropractic treatment. (Whalen Decl., ¶¶ 58, 63.) 
          Defendants
also rely on the declaration of Jeffrey Wang, M.D., a board-certified
orthopedic spine surgeon, who opines that Defendants’ treatment did not case or
contribute to Plaintiff’s injuries because pre- and post-incident MRIs do not
show material differences and any potential differences are “likely due to a
progression of [Plaintiff’s] existing back pathology (degenerative disc disease
and prior spine injuries) and not due to any alleged negligent
actions/omissions by Defendants.” (Wang, Decl., ¶¶ 3, 53.) 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff submits the expert witness declaration of Bruce A.
Wasserman, O.M.D. (“Dr. Wasserman”). Dr. Wasserman declares that he is a
licensed physician, the “founding member of the National Board of Orthopedic
Acupuncture” and mainly participates as a medical expert in worker’s
compensation cases. (Wasserman Decl., ¶ 1.) He reviews MRIs and nerve
conduction studies, as well as all related imaging related to orthopedic
injuries and diseases on a daily basis, and has consistently done so since
1981. (Ibid.) He states he has general understanding of MRI review standards
and the proper standard of care for patients with the same or similar
symptomology as Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Dr. Wasserman opines that Defendants
breached the applicable standard of care because “[he] would have . . . refused
[Plaintiff] as a client for his condition and referred Plaintiff to an orthopedist”
due to Plaintiff’s MRIs showing degenerative disc disease, disc bulges, and
disc protrusions. (Wasserman Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Dr. Wasserman also states that
Defendants “breached the medically accepted standard of care for performing
manual adjustments and/or treatments on patients who present with similar or
the same symptomology and condition as Plaintiff.” (Wasserman Decl., ¶ 10.) Dr.
Wasserman additionally opines that “[b]y not properly evaluating Plaintiffs
condition nd symptomology, using reasonable medical probability and applying
the proper standard of care when dealing with patients presenting to
Defendants’ facility with the same, Plaintiff was injured further by
Defendants’ conduct.” (Wasserman Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Dr. Wasserman’s opinion is
inadmissible. As the question here is whether chiropractic care should have
been provided, Dr. Wasserman’s statement that he would have refused to treat
Plaintiff is speculative because there is no evidence that Dr. Wasserman is a
chiropractor. In fact, Defendants introduce a copy of Dr. Wasserman’s license
showing that he is an acupuncturist. Therefore, whether Dr. Wasserman, an
acupuncturist, would treat Plaintiff is irrelevant. 
Additionally, Dr. Wasserman’s opinion
that Defendants breached the standard of care for performing adjustments on
“patients who present with similar or the same symptomology and condition as
Plaintiffs” is too speculative to create a triable issue of fact as to whether
Defendants breached the standard of care with respect to Plaintiff,
specifically. (Wasserman Decl., ¶ 10.) Although Dr. Wasserman declares that he
is familiar with reading imaging and other studies in connection with worker’s
compensation cases and patients demostrating same or similar symptoms as
Plaintiff’s symptoms, there is no factual basis establishing a foundation for
his assertion that he is familiar with the applicable standard of care, i.e., evaluating
a patient as a candidate for chiropractic treatment. 
As Plaintiff failed to submit a
competent competing expert declaration, Plaintiff did not meet his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
          Moving party
to give notice.  
Dated
this 9th
day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.