 Case Number:  23STCV13328    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  19 After consideration of the briefing filed and oral  argument at the hearing, the Court rules as follows:  The Court grants Defendant City of Los Angeles’ request  for a stay of proceedings. (Code of Civ. Proc. section 128). The Court will not issue its final ruling on the Demurrer  by Defendant City of Los Angeles until the pending proceedings on the Petitions  For Writ of Mandate filed by Plaintiffs Mathhew Mammone (Case No. 23STCP02876)  and Timmothy Hamson (Case No. 23STCP03315), and any other writ petitions by  named Plaintiffs, are completed. The Court sets a Status Conference Re: Petitions For Writ  of Mandate for November 7, 2024, at 8:30. The parties are ordered to file and  serve Status Reports by November 1, 2024. The hearing on Demurrer is CONTINUED TO November 18,  2024, at 8:30 a.m.  On the Court’s own motion, the Case Management Conference  is CONTINUED TO November 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Counsel for Defendant City of Los Angeles to give notice.     STATEMENT OF THE CASE   This action arises out of alleged civil rights  violations. Plaintiffs John Knox, Adin Waldrip, Jeffery Ochoa, Michael Hayes,  Nicholas Collins, Morgan Bradley, Shane Nelson, Nathaniel Helton, Nicholas  Watkins, Ian Tarango, Matthew Mammone, Timothy Hamson, Chris Curtis, Eliott  Jones, Gabriela Mendo, Richard Tanguay, Edward Brockschmidt, and Armando  Carranza (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit against Defendants The City of  Los Angeles, a municipality, and its Fire Department (the “City”), Ralph  Terrazas, Kristin Crowley, Alfred Poirier, John Drake, Armando Hogan, Graham  Everett, David Perez, Kristina Kepner, Carlos Calvillo, Kairi Brown, Eric  Talamantes, Amir Caspian, Albert Valle, Timothy Wuerfel, Glenn Baham, and  Michael Henderson (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging the following causes of  action: 1.     Denial Of Due Process (FBOR, Skelly,  and §1060); 2.     Denial Of Equal Protection; 3.     Denial Of Right To Privacy; 4.     Denial Of Right To Refuse Medical  Treatment; 5.     Redress Of Perceived Disability  Discrimination; 6.     Redress Of Religious Discrimination; 7.     Redress Of Genetic Testing  Discrimination;  8.     Redress Discrimination Due To  Association; 9.     Lack Of Good Faith Interactive; 10.  Failure To Accommodate; 11.  Redress Harassment; 12.  Redress Unlawful Retaliation; 13.  Redress Failure To Prevent  Discrimination, Harassment And Retaliation; And  14.  Declaratory Relief.   Defendant City of Los Angeles filed the instant Demurrer to Plaintiffs’  Complaint.   GROUNDS FOR DEMURRER Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivisions (d), (e), and (f), Defendant City demurs to each cause of action  on the grounds that (1) there is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (2)  uncertainty; and (3) failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action. MEET/CONFER   The Court finds that Defendant City substantially  complied with the meet and confer requirements. (See M. Aaron Neishlos Decl.,  ¶¶ 2-3.) REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE The Court GRANTS Defendant City’s request to take  judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 7. (Evid. Code, § 452(d), (h).) The Court  also GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request to take judicial notice of Exhibits A and B.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d), (h); see Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont General Corp.  (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-14]; StorMedia Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 20  Cal.4th 449, 457 n. 9; see also Cruz v. County of Los Angeles (1985) 173  Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134).         DISCUSSION   I.      DEMURRER Misjoinder of Parties Defendant City demurs to the entire Complaint on the  ground that “[t]he  18 Plaintiffs’ claims do not arise out of the same transaction(s) or  occurrence(s) and nothing in the Complaint indicates that their respective  disciplinary proceedings were sufficiently related so as to constitute a single  series of occurrences or a common plan” pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 378. The Court does not rule on the arguments regarding  misjoinder under section 378 at this time. However, Defendant City alternatively demurs on the  ground that the inclusion of Plaintiffs Hamson and Mammone, who have pending  petitions for writ of mandate and must first succeed in overturning the  determination of the Board of Rights before proceeding with the instant action,  “would create the risk of inconsistent rulings and would waste judicial  resources.”  Defendant City requests that  the Court stay the action pending resolution of Plaintiffs Hamson and Mammone’s  writ of mandates. Plaintiffs fail to address this  alternative request for a stay. Defendant highlights this in its Reply brief. The Court notes that in the  Opposition, Plaintiff state that another Writ by Plaintiff Chris Curtis will  soon be filed. (Opposition at pp. 7-8.) The Court agrees with the Defendant City’s argument that  because Plaintiffs Hamson and Mammone both have pending Petitions for Writ of  Mandate (Defendants RJN, Exhibits 2 and 3), and another soon to be filed by  Plaintiff Chris Curtis, this action should be stayed. (Code of Civ. Proc.  section 128). The Court finds that this is warranted in the interest of justice.  (Frieberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th  1484, 1489).  In those writ petitions,  Plaintiffs Hamson and Mammone generally name the same Defendants as in this  case, complain about the City of Los Angeles’ COVID-19 Ordinance and its vaccination  requirements for all employees, and allege, among other things, that they were  placed on suspension without pay, the actions by the City were unlawful,  including violations of the federal and state labor and employment laws,  violations of State and Federal Constitutions, as well as violations of the due  process requirements under the Firefighters Bill of Rights, section 1060 of the  City Charter, and Skelly v. State of California (1975) 15 Cal. 3d. 194.The Court finds that a stay of proceedings is proper at this time for the above reasons. After the writ proceedings are completed, the Court  will proceed to finalize its ruling on the demurrer.  If the parties request time for additional briefing, they may request such in their respective Status Reports.      