 Case Number:  24SMCV00884    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff Italia Film International SAL (“plaintiff”) filed this
breach of contract action against defendants Arclight Films International Pty
Ltd., Arclight Films International Pty LLC, Gary Hamilton, and Ryan Hamilton
(collectively “defendants”).  The case
concerns plaintiff’s loan of $500,000 to defendants so they could secure
director Phillip Noyce for the production of a film called Killer 10.  (Compl., ¶13.)  Defendants failed to pay back the loan per
the contract terms and later, defendant Arclight Australia entered into a
written guaranty agreement to repay the loan. 
(Id. at ¶19.)  Currently
before the court is specially appearing defendants’ motion to quash service of
summons due to defective service and lack of personal jurisdiction.  They alternatively move to dismiss or stay
the action based on forum non conveniens. 
As the court clarifies later, not all of the moving defendants are
proper for each motion.  Plaintiff
opposes.  There are two Hamilton
defendants, Gary and Ryan.  The court
uses first names to avoid confusion; no disrespect is intended.
Defendants’ request for
judicial notice of the Hague Convention and the information related to
Australia and the United States is GRANTED. 
(See Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (f).) 
The information informs the court’s analysis on the motion to quash due
to defective service.
Both parties filed
evidentiary objections.  Plaintiff’s
objections to the Ryan Hamilton declaration are DISREGARDED.  Most are made on the basis of relevance.  Any relevance objections are not necessary.
By definition, if the proffered evidence is irrelevant then it will have no
part in the court’s analysis.  On the
other hand, if the evidence is relevant then the objection is not well
taken.  This is not to say that the
evidence in question is in fact relevant and material to the court’s
analysis.  It is only to say that if it
is discussed below, then by definition, the court finds that it is
relevant.  If it is not discussed below,
then it forms no dispositive part of the court’s reasoning, and the objection
is moot.  The remaining objections are
also OVERRULED.  Ryan is attesting as to
facts within his personal knowledge and his views on his permanent residence,
which is not a legal conclusion.
Defendants’ objections to
the Vincenti declaration follow a similar pattern as plaintiff’s
objections.  The court DISREGARDS the
relevance objections.  Vincenti also
authenticates the attached email chains because he attests that he is copied on
all the emails and his name shows up in the address chain.  The court will also not sustain an objection
simply because Vincenti failed to list the exact page number of the
exhibit.  The evidence is minimal and the
court has read it.  The best evidence
rule objections have minimal merit where the authenticated emails are
attached.  The court does not rely on
Vincenti’s declaration for the substance of what was stated.
As for defendants’
objections to the Fowler declaration, the relevance objections are
DISREGARDED.  The remaining objections
are OVERRULED.  Fowler is able to attest
as to actions taken by his office and things related to his representation of
plaintiff, such as the content of proofs of service and the federal
litigation.  Again, the best evidence
rule objection is ultimately immaterial where the documents are attached for
the court to review.
The court turns first to
the motion to quash for defective service. 
Only defendants Arclight Films International Pty Ltd (“Arclight
Australia”) and Gary Hamilton (“Gary”) move to quash the service of summons due
to defective service.  The motion is
DENIED as unripe as to Arclight Australia. 
It has not yet been served with the summons and complaint.  There is no proof of service on file with the
court and plaintiff notes as much in opposition.  Should Arclight Australia eventually be
served and should it believe service was ineffective, it may file such a motion
at that time.  The court therefore
addresses only whether Gary was properly served.
“A party cannot be properly
joined unless served with the summons and complaint; notice does not substitute
for proper service. Until statutory requirements are satisfied, the court lacks
jurisdiction over a defendant.  (Honda
Motor Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048; Schering
Corp. v. Superior Ct. (1975) 52 Cal.App.3d 737, 741; Stamps v. Superior
Court (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 108, 110; In re Abrams (1980) 108
Cal.App.3d 685, 693.)”  (Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808–809, parallel citations
omitted.)  “ ‘Appellant was under no duty
to act upon a defectively served summons. 
The requirement of notice “is not satisfied by actual knowledge without
notification conforming to the statutory requirements” [citation]; it is
long-settled that methods of service are to be strictly construed and that a
court does not acquire jurisdiction where personal service is relied upon but
has not in fact taken place. 
[Citations.]’ ”  (Kappel v.
Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466–1467, citing Slaughter v.
Legal Process & Courier Service (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 1236, 1251 with
approval.)
The proof of service on
file indicates that Gary was served via substitute service at an address in
Beverly Hills.  Gary argues that he was
not served in compliance with the Hague Convention and so service was defective.  He points out that he is an Australian
citizen who currently resides in and intends to reside in Australia
indefinitely.  (Gary Decl., ¶7.)  Gary attests, among other things, that he is
not a United States citizen, is not registered to vote here, most of his
personal and real property is in Australia, his family resides there and his
children attend school there, and his bank and brokerage accounts are in
Australia.  (Id. at ¶¶8-9.)
The Hague Convention
applies to service of process abroad. “The Convention is ‘a multilateral treaty
that was formulated in 1964 by the Tenth Session of the Hague Conference of
Private International Law . . . [and] was intended to provide a simpler way to
serve process abroad, to assure that defendants sued in foreign jurisdictions
would receive actual and timely notice of suit, and to facilitate proof of
service abroad.’  (Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Schlunk (1988) 486 U.S. 694, 698.)”  (Rockefeller Technology Investments (Asia)
VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 135,
parallel citations omitted.)  The United
States is a signatory. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff contends that the
Hague Convention does not apply because international service was not
required.  Gary, it argues, works in an
office in Beverly Hills and he was served via substitute service at that office.  It points out that Gary was personally served
at the Beverly Hills office in January 2024 in relation to a dismissed federal
action, Gary is the CEO of AFI Media, a California corporation that wholly owns
Arclight Australia, he is AFI Media’s agent for service of process at the
Beverly Hills office, the Beverly Hills office is identified as one of Arclight
Australia’s offices, and the Arclight Australia employee who accepted the
documents did so for Gary.  (Fowler
Decl., Exhs. B-E, G.)  Plaintiff contends
that foreign service therefore was not required and substitute service was
perfected according to California law.
It is plaintiff’s burden to
establish that service was proper.  “In
the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority of the court, compliance
with the statutes governing service of process is essential to establish that
court's personal jurisdiction over a defendant. 
(§ 410.50.)  When a defendant
challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the burden is on
the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia,
the facts requisite to an effective service. 
(Taylor–Rush v. Multitech Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 103, 110; Sheard
v. Superior Court (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 207, 211; Coulston v. Cooper
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)”  (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440,
parallel citations and internal footnote omitted.)
Plaintiff’s evidence
establishes that Gary owns businesses with a physical presence in California
and he is listed as the agent for service of process at a particular business
address.  (Fowler Decl., Exhs. A, C-F.)  The evidence further establishes that Gary is
sometimes in California.  (Id. at
Exh. B.)  But the court still has
questions.  The court is confident that
if Gary is listed as the agent for service of process for an entity registered
to do business here, and the address given is a California address, he can be
served here without regard to the Hague Convention in that capacity.  That is, Hague service would not be needed to
obtain jurisdiction over that entity.  By
registering to do business here, one requirement is that an agent for service
be designated.  The entity doing business
has, to that extent, voluntarily agreed to waive Hague service.  But that does not mean that Gary can be
served here personally through substituted service.  (Gary could be served here by personal
service, though.  “Gotcha” jurisdiction
is alive and well.  It is just that he
was not served personally in the sense of placing the summons in his hand.)
The court looks to the case
Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154 for guidance.  There, the court held that the motion to
quash was properly granted because service on the individual defendant did not
comply with the Hague Convention.  The
court made some important observations that inform the decision here.  First, substitute service on the individual
defendant Mai was improper because it was “undisputed plaintiff knew defendant
was residing in England, temporarily or otherwise.”  (Id. at p. 1159.)  Mai had sent plaintiff a letter with his new
international address and phone number. 
(Ibid.)  Further, the
evidence produced on the motion to quash established that Mai was a resident of
England at the time service was attempted. 
“There was no evidence presented that defendant was other than a
resident of England at the time service was attempted in the fall of 2011.  Accordingly, plaintiff was required to show
that service of process on defendant comported with the Hague Convention
regarding service on an individual in a foreign country, or a proper basis for
why the Hague Convention did not apply.” 
(Id. at p. 1160, internal citations omitted.)  Plaintiff there argued that the Hague
Convention did not apply because, by its terms, it does not apply where the
foreign address is unknown.  The court
rejected that argument, noting that plaintiff was required to exercise
reasonable diligence in determining Mai’s address in England.  “Plaintiff contends there is no requirement
to make even a minimal inquiry as to the address of a party residing abroad
before resorting to domestic methods of service.  Plaintiff argues, in effect, that if a
foreign address is unknown, a party may simply disregard the Hague Convention
and attempt service in any manner prescribed by state law.  We disagree. . . [¶]  Here, there was no evidence plaintiff made
any effort to inquire about defendant's residential, business, or other mailing
address in England, despite admittedly having defendant's personal e-mail
address and overseas telephone number.” 
(Id. at pp. 1161-1162, emphasis by Lebel court.)  The court held that substitute service on Mai
at an address in Granada Hills was therefore improper where plaintiff had
knowledge that Mai lived abroad.  (Id.
at p. 1164.)  Of course, here the
situation is somewhat different. 
Plaintiff does not argue that it did not know Gary’s Australia
address.  But what the court does not
know is the extent that plaintiff was aware that Gary was an Australia
resident and not a California resident to begin with.  It is implicit, given Lebel’s logic,
that where the plaintiff believes that the defendant is a California resident,
California service will be appropriate and the Hague Convention will not
apply.  But while Gary has submitted
evidence that he contends shows he is not a California resident, that is
not dispositive.  Unlike citizenship,
which is more limited, a human can have multiple residences.  (A person can also be a citizen of more than
one country.)
The facts in Lebel
are different from those presented here, though.  Plaintiff had reason to believe that Gary had
a presence in California that justified service in accordance with California
law.  Not only was he engaged in business
in California, he was registered as the agent for service of process here.  Further, the letterhead on the Written
Guarantee listed a California address. 
Gary attended a film festival in California and invited Vincenti to his
home for a Arclight-related cocktail party. 
There is no evidence, either in the opposing or moving papers, that Gary
ever represented that he resided abroad to defendant.  Notably, the plaintiff in Lebel had
knowledge of Mai’s foreign residence yet undertook no reasonable diligence to
ascertain his addresses in England.  In
contrast, here plaintiff has knowledge of Gary’s California business and
residential addresses and he was served via substitute service at one of
them.  Gary was also personally served at
that same address previously in relation to another case.  (Fowler Decl., Exh. B.)  That service attempt was on January 23, 2024
and the instant substitute service attempt was on March 4, 2024.  Gary does not attest that he was in
California temporarily in January, or that he was residing in Australia as of
March 4.  He presents no evidence
indicating that plaintiff knew or should have known that Gary’s residential,
business, or other mailing addresses were in Australia, as opposed to
California.  Plaintiff also argues that
the Hague Convention does not apply according to its terms.  After all, Article I states that it applies
in cases “where there is occasion to transmit a judicial or extrajudicial
document for service abroad.”  As to the
latter point, the court disagrees. 
Unlike personal service, substituted service requires handing the
summons to a person other than the defendant and mailing the document to
the defendant.  It is the mailing that
could trigger the Hague Convention.  The
court understands the argument that the mailing can, under California law, be
made to the same address as the substituted service, but the court is not as
confident that this will work where the address is not believed to be the
defendant’s actual residence or principal place of employment, and there is not
sufficient evidence that the address at issue here was either.
The court emphasizes that
it does not disagree that Gary has shown that his presence in California is
always temporary; the question is whether plaintiff knew that such that
plaintiff was on notice that service in Australia would or could be required.  
Thus, plaintiff has
established at least an argument that the reliance on substitute service was
potentially proper, given plaintiff’s contention that he believed that Gary’s
residential and business addresses were in California.  With this information, it would not
necessarily be required that plaintiff transmit the documents internationally
to serve Gary.  (Yamaha Motor Co.,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264, 270 [service on a
foreign corporation by serving a domestic subsidiary as its agent was
sufficient and Hague Convention did not apply].)  “In interpreting the phrase ‘occasion to
transmit,’ the United States Supreme Court stated: ‘If the internal law of the
forum state defines the applicable method of serving process as requiring the
transmittal of documents abroad, then the Hague Service Convention
applies.’  (Id. at p. 700.)  Thus, service of process is governed by the
Hague Service Convention and, to the extent not inconsistent with the
Convention, by the Code of Civil Procedure. 
(§ 413.10, subd. (c); Volkswagenwerk, supra, at pp. 699, 670; see
also Brockmeyer v. May (9th Cir. 2004) 383 F.3d 798, 803–804.)”  (Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v. Superior
Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1064–1065, parallel citations
omitted.)  Thus, the motion to quash
based on failure to follow the Hague Convention may require additional briefing
or evidence.  However, if the court were
required to rule now, the court would deny the motion on the ground that
plaintiff has established a good faith belief that Gary was a California
resident (even if that belief was in error), and thus no international
transmittal of the document was required. 
Under Volkswagenwerk Aktiensgesllschaft v. Schlunk (1988) 486
U.S. 694, where service on a domestic agent is sufficient, the Hague Convention
does not apply.  And that would depend on
whether the plaintiff has reason to know that the domestic address is
not proper, as was the case in Lebel.
The court next turns to
personal jurisdiction.  Both Arclight
Australia and Gary bring this motion. 
Again, Arclight Australia has not been served and so the motion remains
premature.  The court does not address
arguments on its behalf.  Arclight
Australia’s motion is therefore DENIED as unripe.  Gary’s motion, however, is properly before
the court.
California courts “may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of
this state or of the United States.” 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) 
“The federal Constitution permits a state to exercise jurisdiction over
a nonresident defendant if the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum contacts’ with
the forum such that ‘maintenance of the suit does not offend “traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice.” 
[Citations.]’ ”  (DVI, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1089-1090, quoting International
Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  Courts recognize two types of personal
jurisdiction: general and specific.  (Goodyear
Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A., et al., v. Brown, et al. (2011) 564 U.S.
915, 919.) If a defendant contends he or she lacks minimum contacts with
California, he or she may file a motion to quash service of summons on the
basis of lack of personal jurisdiction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)  Although much of the jurisdiction
jurisprudence was established in deciding whether one state had jurisdiction
over the citizens of another state, the law applies to entities foreign to the
United States as well.
“First, when jurisdiction
is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the
plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between defendant and
the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”  (Shearer v. Superior Court (1977) 70
Cal.App.3d 424, 430.)  When a defendant
challenges “personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the
burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual bases
justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.” 
(ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209-210; see
also Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  If the plaintiff meets its burden, then “it
becomes defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (ViaView, supra, 1 Cal.App.3d at p. 210.)
Although plaintiff does not
really address general jurisdiction over Gary, the court notes that Gary seems
to have substantial contacts generally with California.  Indeed, it appears that he resides here for
some of the year and owns property here. 
The court cannot say, from the papers before it, whether there is
definitively no general jurisdiction.  If
there is, of course, then specific jurisdiction need not be shown.  But if there is no general jurisdiction, then
the question will turn on whether there are sufficient minimum contacts between
Gary and California to establish jurisdiction over him for this case.
To establish specific
jurisdiction, a plaintiff’s cause of action must arise out of defendant’s
in-state activities.  (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1773, 1781.)  Specific jurisdiction arises when “1) the
defendant has purposefully availed himself of the privilege of conducting
activities in California, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its
laws; 2) the claim arises out of the defendant's California-related activity;
and 3) the exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable and would
comport with notions of fair play and substantial justice.”  (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior
Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796, internal citations omitted.)  The plaintiff must satisfy the first two
prongs of the test for the burden to shift to the defendant on the third
prong.  (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New
Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1568.)
The court first looks at
purposeful availment.  “For purposes of
the purposeful availment prong, the United States Supreme Court has described
the forum contacts necessary to establish specific jurisdiction as involving
variously a nonresident who has purposefully directed his or her activities at
forum residents, or who has purposefully derived benefit from forum activities,
or purposefully avail[ed himself or herself] of the privilege of conducting
activities within the forum State, thus invoking the benefits and protections
of its laws, or deliberately has engaged in significant activities with a State
or has created continuing obligations between himself and residents of the
forum [citation].  (Vons, supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 446, italics added.) 
This disjunctive language, along with the Supreme Court's rejection of
mechanical or talismanic formulas (id. at pp. 450, 460), suggests that
the above formulations describe alternative, but not mutually exclusive, tests
for purposeful availment.”  (Gilmore,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1568, emphasis by Gilmore court,
internal quotations omitted.)
Plaintiff’s purposeful
availment argument focuses  on the
following facts: (1) an Arclight Australia employee based in California, Ryan
Hamilton, negotiated an underlying agreement, called a Development Interest
Agreement (“DIA”), and the $500,000 loan; (2) Gary and plaintiff’s president
finalized the DIA in Santa Monica and both Gary and Ryan made promises on
behalf of Arclight Australia at that time and thereafter; (3) Ryan worked with
plaintiff’s representative regarding performance of the underlying agreement
and plaintiff wired some of the money to a California corporation at a
California bank; (4) plaintiff’s president met with the director of the
underlying film and recipient of the loan, Phillip Noyce, in Los Angeles; (5)
the Written Guarantee identifies Arclight Australia’s location as Beverly
Hills, which matches Gary’s statements to plaintiff’s president and Gary’s
in-state presence; and (6) subsequent oral modifications of the Written
Guarantee occurred in Santa Monica.
Most of these focus on
Arclight Australia’s, not Gary’s, in-state activities. Ryan’s negotiations and
work, Arclight Australia’s business address, plaintiff’s act of wiring money to
a California corporation at a California bank, and plaintiff’s meeting with
Noyce are irrelevant to Gary’s activities in California.  Arclight Australia’s acts cannot be
attributed to Gary as a basis for jurisdiction against him (though his contacts
can be a basis for jurisdiction against Arclight Australia).  The same is true of Ryan and Noyce.  “ ‘The purposeful availment inquiry . . .
focuses on the defendant's intentionality. 
[Citation.]  This prong is only
satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs his
activities toward the forum so that he should expect, by virtue of the benefit
he receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on’ his contacts
with the forum.  (U.S. v. Swiss
American Bank, Ltd. (1st Cir.2001) 274 F.3d 610, 623–624.)”  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29
Cal.4th 262, 269.)
However, plaintiff presents
evidence that the oral modifications of the Written Guarantee were made by Gary
in California.  “Subsequent oral
modifications of the written agreements between the parties were made at AFM
events in California when the parties met. 
This includes the final oral modification, which occurred in November
2022.”  (Vincenti Decl., ¶¶13-14, Exh, H
[late 2022 email chain regarding various investments, including Killer 10, and
Gary’s request that Vincenti discuss these issues with him at a film festival
in Santa Monica].)  Gary disputes
plaintiff’s characterization of the film festival discussions.  “While I attended the Film Market, my
presence there had nothing to do with the $500,000 loan made by Italia Film to
produce Killer 10, or Arclight’s Written Guarantee.  Any discussion about Killer 10 was by
happenstance or as an aside having nothing to do with my attendance of the
festival.  No negotiations or
agreement(s) were entered into by Arclight at this time.”  (Gary Decl., ¶21.)  But regardless of the characterization, the
point is that there were discussions held in California.  Notably, there is corroborating evidence that
the parties met in California at the festival with the intent to discuss issues
related to Killer 10 and other movies. 
(Vincenti Decl., Exh. 10.)
This is sufficient to
establish purposeful availment because these discussions are alleged to be
fraudulent on Gary’s part.  “ ‘A state
has a special interest in exercising jurisdiction over those who commit
tortious acts within its territory. 
Therefore, it is reasonable that a state should exercise jurisdiction
over those who commit or cause to be committed in the state what is claimed to
be a tortious act.’  (Kaiser Aetna v.
Deal (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 896, 901.) 
Jurisdiction is proper over a nonresident defendant who, while
personally present in California, makes representations or nondisclosures to
the plaintiff which constitute the gravamen of the action.  (Ibid.)  ‘If a defendant commits an act or omission
outside the forum state with the intent to cause a tortious effect within the
state, the state may exercise jurisdiction over the defendant as to any cause
of action arising from the effects.  The
intent to cause tortious injury within the state when the tort actually occurs
is generally a sufficient basis, without more, for the exercise of in personam
jurisdiction.  “The act may have been
done with the intention of causing effects in the state.  If so, the state may exercise the same
judicial jurisdiction over the actor, or over the one who caused the act to be
done, as to causes of action arising from these effects as it could have
exercised if these effects had resulted from an act done within its territory.”  [Citation.]’ 
(Id., at p. 902.)”  (Taylor-Rush
v. Multitech Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 103, 113; see also, Doe v.
Damron (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 684 [tortious activities in California by
nonresident defendant against nonresident plaintiff sufficient to establish
jurisdiction, even if tort consisted of a single, brief visit].)  Even if the purpose of the trip was not to
engage in particular conversations, if those conversations nonetheless
occurred, it will be sufficient.
Notably, Gary’s declaration
does not deny that discussions took place at the film festival; he only takes
issue with whether the discussion was planned. 
Nor does he deny that the promises were false.  “In the instant case appellant has made a
compelling showing that, while in California, Messinger made fraudulent
misrepresentations and nondisclosures which induced her to execute the
buy/sell, employment and settlement agreements. Messinger's declaration does
not deny such misrepresentations and nondisclosures, but instead states that
any and all dealings with appellant and Bio–Health were carried out exclusively
in his capacity as an officer of TotalMed. 
There is no question that the minimum contacts test was met and personal
jurisdiction over him was acquired by virtue of his tortious acts within
California purposely directed at appellant.” 
(Taylor-Rush, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at p. 114, emphasis by
Taylor-Rush court.)  At this juncture,
that could be enough to establish purposeful availment. 
If there is a purposeful
availment, then plaintiff must also establish a substantial nexus between those
activities and the cause of action asserted. 
“[T]here must be ‘an affiliation between the forum and the underlying
controversy, principally, [an] activity or an occurrence that takes place in
the forum State and is therefore subject to the State's regulation.’  Goodyear, 564 U.S., at 919, 131 S.Ct.
2846 (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted).”  (Bristol-Myers, supra, 137 S.Ct. at p.
1780.)  “ ‘A claim need not arise
directly from the defendant's forum contacts in order to be sufficiently
related to the contact to warrant the exercise of specific jurisdiction.  Rather, as long as the claim bears a
substantial connection to the nonresident's forum contacts, the exercise of
specific jurisdiction is appropriate.’  (Id.
at p. 452.)  ‘[F]or the purpose of
establishing jurisdiction the intensity of forum contacts and the connection of
the claim to those contacts are inversely related. . . .  “[A]s the relationship of the defendant with
the state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows more tenuous, the
scope of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured by limiting the
circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to appear and defend.”
’  (Ibid., citation
omitted.)”  (Greenwell v. Auto-Owners
Ins. Co. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 783, 797, citing Vons, supra, 14
Cal.4th 434, parallel citations omitted.)
Here, the showing has at
least arguably been made. The oral modifications form at least a partial basis
of each cause of action.  (Compl., ¶¶30,
39, 43, 50.)  If this prong has been
established, then the burden shifts to Gary on the issue of fair play and
substantial justice.
“[M]inimum requirements
inherent in the concept of ‘fair play and substantial justice’ may defeat the
reasonableness of jurisdiction even if the defendant has purposefully engaged
in forum activities.  World-Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson, supra, 444 U.S., at 292, 100 S.Ct., at 564;
see also Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Laws §§ 36–37 (1971).”  (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 477–478.)   “We have
previously explained that the determination of the reasonableness of the
exercise of jurisdiction in each case will depend on an evaluation of several
factors. A court must consider the burden on the defendant, the interests of
the forum State, and the plaintiff's interest in obtaining relief.  It must also weigh in its determination ‘the
interstate judicial system's interest in obtaining the most efficient
resolution of controversies; and the shared interest of the several States in
furthering fundamental substantive social policies.’ World-Wide Volkswagen, 444
U.S., at 292, 100 S.Ct., at 564 (citations omitted).”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.) 
“A determination of reasonableness rests upon a balancing of interests:
the relative inconvenience to defendant of having to defend an action in a
foreign state, the interest of plaintiff in suing locally, and the interrelated
interest the state has in assuming jurisdiction.  (Buckeye Boiler Co. v. Superior Court,
supra, 71 Cal.2d at p. 899.)  The
factors involved in the balancing process include the following: ‘the relative
availability of evidence and the burden of defense and prosecution in one place
rather than another; the interest of a state in providing a forum for its
residents or regulating the business involved; the ease of access to an alternative
forum; the avoidance of a multiplicity of suits and conflicting adjudications;
and the extent to which the cause of action arose out of defendant's local
activities.’  (Cornelison v. Chaney,
supra, 16 Cal.3d at p. 151; Core–Vent Corp. v. Nobel Industries AB,
supra, 11 F.3d 1482, 1487–1488; Panavision Intern., L.P. v. Toeppen,
supra, 141 F.3d 1316.)”  (Integral
Development Corp. v. Weissenbach (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 576, 591, parallel
citations omitted.)
Gary argues that the burden
on him to litigate in California will be high and financially burdensome.  (Gary Decl., ¶24.)  His only showing is related to financial
burden and business interruption.  The
showing is not the strongest, but the court must be cautious here.  “Courts furthermore must exercise ‘ “[g]reat
care and reserve . . . when extending our notions of personal jurisdiction into
the international field.’  (Asahi
Metal Industry Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 115.)  This principle requires ‘a careful inquiry
into the reasonableness of the assertion of jurisdiction in the particular
case, and an unwillingness to find the serious burdens on an alien defendant
outweighed by minimal interests on the part of the plaintiff or the forum State.’  (Ibid.)”  (Rivelli v. Hemm (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
380, 393, parallel citations omitted.)
The court is not convinced
that exercising jurisdiction over Gary for a handful of conversations in
California is fair or reasonable.  He is
located in Australia and seems to have a temporary presence in California related
to certain business needs only.  Even
with technological advances, the financial drain of having to litigate in
California and appear at least for trial is a serious concern.  The fact that plaintiff’s principal is
willing to litigate in California even though he is from Lebanon is not convincing.  Plaintiff is an alien as well and
California’s interest in enforcement of the contract seems slight.  (See Asahi Metal, supra, 480 U.S. at
p. 116 [“Considering the international context, the heavy burden on the alien
defendant, and the slight interests of the plaintiff and the forum State, the
exercise of personal jurisdiction by a California court over Asahi in this
instance would be unreasonable and unfair.”].) 
Thus, the court is of the view that Gary has made a strong showing.
At the end of the day, the
court will allow jurisdictional discovery. 
That discovery can go to both general and specific jurisdiction.  It can go the fair play and substantial justice
as well as purposeful availment.  The
court will discuss with the parties the timing for supplemental papers.
Finally, the court turns of
the forum non conveniens motion.  “Forum
non conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a
court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of
action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly
tried elsewhere.  (Leet v. Union Pac.
R.R. Co. (1944) 25 Cal.2d 605, 609.)” 
(Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751, parallel
citations omitted.)  There is a two-part
test for determining whether such a motion should be granted. “In determining
whether to grant a motion based on forum non conveniens, a court mus first
determine whether the alternate forum is a ‘suitable’ place for trial.  If it is, the next step is to consider the
private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in retaining
the action for trial in California.”  (Ibid.)  “The defendant, as the moving party, bears
the burden of proof on a motion based on forum non conveniens.  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751;
Animal Film, LLC v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc., supra, 193 Cal.App.4that
p. 472.)  It is the trial court's duty to
weigh and interpret evidence and draw reasonable inferences therefrom.  (Guimei, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p.
698.)”  (National Football League v.
Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902, 918, parallel citations
omitted.)  “When a court upon motion of a
party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an
action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or
dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be
just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd.
(a).)
The briefing on the FNC
motion is incomplete.  If the court needs
to reach the FNC motion, it will order further briefing on both factors.  The parties will need to address whether
Australia is a proper forum that will accept jurisdiction of this case.  This includes jurisdiction of the contract
claims (regardless of whether the laws of Australia are favorable) and whether
there are statute of limitations issues. 
The court also needs to know if defendants will stipulate to
jurisdiction in Australia (the court assumes yes, but notes there is at least
one California entity among the defendants). 
“An alternative forum is suitable if it has jurisdiction and the action
in that forum will not be barred by the statute of limitations.  (Morris v. AGFA Corp., supra, 144
Cal.App.4th at p. 1464.)  It bears
emphasis that ‘[i]t is sufficient that the action can be brought, although not
necessarily won, in the suitable alternative forum.’  (Ibid.; Roman v. Liberty
University, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 670, 683.)  That the law is less favorable to the
plaintiffs in the alternative forum, or that recovery would be more difficult
if not impossible, is irrelevant to the determination whether the forum is
suitable unless ‘the alternative forum provides no remedy at all.’  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc., supra, 54
Cal.3d at p. 764; Roman, supra, at p. 683; Boaz v. Boyle & Co.,
supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 710.)”  (Guimei
v. General Electric Co. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 689, 696, parallel citations
omitted.)
On the private interest
factors, the court requires better evidence on things like “the ease of access
to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the
availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses.”  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p.
751.)  As an aside, the court notes that
Ryan need not establish that California is a “seriously inconvenient”
forum.  That standard does not apply to a
nonresident plaintiff’s choice of forum, and here, plaintiff is from Lebanon.  (See Fox Factory, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 206.) Plaintiff’s choice of California is only
entitled to due deference.  The court
also notes that while choice of law is a factor in the forum non conveniens
analysis, it is not identical to the governmental interest test.  The court also notes that the forum non
conveniens motion can be made even if there is general jurisdiction.  (Baltimore Football Club, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 352.) 
Although the court will defer ruling on this aspect of the motion
pending the outcome of the jurisdictional motion, the court notes that
defendant makes a reasonably strong showing that California has only a slight
interest (if that) in litigating this case between parties of foreign
countries.