  Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the motion for nonsuit.  The motion is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART.  The motion is DENIED as to breach
of contract and the common count for goods and services rendered.  The court believes that there is sufficient
evidence to get to the jury on both. 
There is evidence from which the jury could conclude that the goods at
issue were ordered and delivered to defendant. 
The court understands the argument that there is no absolute proof of
delivery—there are no signed receipts and nothing from Fedex actually showing
delivery.  However, it is a reasonable
inference and that is enough.  Further,
in a breach of contract case, the damages are not the price plaintiff is out of
pocket—it is the amount of the invoice not paid.  As to goods and services, the evidence of
reasonable value is not fantastic, but the jury could find that the parties
have agreed on a price and that the price that a willing buyer and seller agree
upon is reasonable. The motion is GRANTED as to open book and account
stated.  An open book requires that there
be an account book.  There is no evidence
that plaintiff kept any such book.  It
appears plaintiff simply kept the invoices in a pile and then put them
somewhere else when paid.  But that is
not a book or record showing debits and credits (or money owed and paid).  The court would have accepted a formal
accounting statement or even something like Quickbooks, but there appears to be
nothing.  Account stated requires that
there be an accounting upon which the parties have agreed.  The court sees no evidence of that.  The motion is also GRANTED as to good faith
and fair dealing.  That is the breach of
a term not in the contract.   There is no
such term here. The court will consider the impeachment question and the
exhibits attached to the complaint.  The
court could not find the pertinent case to which defendant referred in
suggesting that under Texas Rule of Evidence 408 or California Evidence Code
section 1152 a communication could not be used as evidence to impeach a
party.  However, the court would require
the following showing from plaintiff: (1) a direct contradiction between
something defendant has said on the witness stand and a statement made by or
attributable to him in the communications; (2) that the contradiction be to a material
and important point (so the question whether it was a leg doctor or a back
doctor would not suffice); and (3) a way to establish that the statement is
fairly attributable to the defendant. 
That can include a question of authenticity, but if the document was
produced by Anwar through a verified response to a document demand, that is
likely going to be enough.  Even then,
only the statement that is directly on point may be admitted.  So, for example, if defendant had testified
that he had never received any delivery on or near July 12, 2018, but his
counsel’s letter had stated “my client informs me that although he did get the
delivery on July 12, 2018, he did not like the look of the items that had been
shipped,” the court would be inclined to allow that singular statement to be
admitted.  (Of course, the court
deliberately picked a counter-factual example.) 
Plaintiff should be prepared to make such a showing if plaintiff plans
to use the exhibits.  The showing will
not be made at sidebar.  Rather,
plaintiff will direct the court to the specific page, paragraph, and sentence
to be introduced before reading it and the court will rule.  The court will not entertain argument on that
point during trial. As to jury instructions, the court is not planning to read
the following instructions because they do not apply: CACI 209, 210, 223, 325,
330 (the court does not see anyone arguing mistake of fact), 331, 337, 372,
373, 3900 (there is no tort), 5004, 5007, 5020, 5021. The court questions CACI 323.  The court does not understand that if the
condition precedent was not met (by which the court understands that the goods
were made and shipped) plaintiff contends that he still ought to get paid.  The court does not understand Anwar to be
arguing waiver, so the court is inclined not to give CACI 336. The court does
not understand who is arguing mitigation. 
The court will better need to understand defendant’s theory before
reading CACI 358 and 3931.  The court
will modify CACI 3934 to delete the causes of action that are out of the
case.  The court will modify CACI 5016
because the court does not think it commented on the evidence. The court adheres to its prior ruling on statute of
limitations.  The court sees the
Commercial Code as setting forth a four year statute, which is also the statute
for the common count of goods and services received.  The court believes that the statute will
relate back to the original complaint. 
Thus, those two remaining causes of action are timely as a matter of
law.   Therefore, the court will not give
CACI 338. The court will give CACI 5013 only if needed.  Same for 5014. On jury instructions, the court will not give special
instruction 1 because the court believes that the question is one of law given
the evidence.  The court believes that
special instruction 2 is subsumed in the CACI instructions.  The court will give special instruction 3 as
modified to say “An unsigned invoice, without more either orally or in writing,
is not a contract.”  For the reasons
above, the court will not give special instruction 4. 































As to the verdict forms, there should be two “Parts” not two
forms.  One is for contract (and will be
“Breach of Contract” not “Breach of Implied Contract”).  The numbering on the instructions will have
to change.  The court is not inclined to
include question 6, which makes little sense here.  Question 10 is out—that is statute of limitations.