  Case Number:  21STCV14469    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  S25 Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a): A settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)When a motion seeking a determination under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the burden on the moving parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith is slight. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [holding that a barebones motion including a declaration setting forth a brief background is sufficient].) However, when the motion is contested, then the moving parties must make a sufficient showing in the moving papers or in the reply papers. (Id. at 1262 [holding that evidence showing a lack of good faith requires the moving party to provide evidence to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the contesting party].) Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (d) imposes the burden of showing that the settlement was not made in good faith on the parties opposing the application.To determine whether the settlement was made in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, the Court applies the following factors identified by the California Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 to determine whether the settlement amount is “in the ballpark” of the settling party’s share of liability for the injuries:(1) a rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery;(2) an approximation of the settling party’s share of the liability;(3) recognition that a settling party should pay less in settlement than if found liable after a trial;(4) the allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;(5) the settling party's financial condition and insurance policy limits;(6) evidence that the plaintiff and the settling party acted with an intent to make the non-settling parties pay more than their fair share (considered fraud and collusion under Tech-Bilt).The “good faith” concept in Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on reviewing courts the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the interests of nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v. Curtis (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack of “good faith” may meet this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far "out of the ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal. 3d 488, 499-500.) Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a “settlement made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.)The Supreme Court explained that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable policies: 1) encouragement of settlements; and 2) equitable allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors. (Ibid.) Those policies would not be served by an approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the other. (Ibid.) Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith unless the amount is reasonable in light of the settling tortfeasor's proportionate share of liability. (Std. Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter Corp. (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 577, 589.)Parties’ PositionsDefendant San Fiesta seeks an order finding that its settlement with Plaintiff is a good faith settlement for the purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. Plaintiff agrees to dismiss Defendant San Fiesta from the action in exchange for a payment of $12,500.00. (Chen Decl., ¶ 7.) The settlement was made expressly contingent upon the entry of a final order from this Court granting Defendant San Fiesta’s motion for determination of good faith settlement. (Ibid.) As of July 9, 2024, no opposition has been made to the instant motion.DiscussionThe burden is on the moving party to show that the settlement was made in good faith. The Court will determine the reasonableness of the settlement agreement based on all the Tech-Bilt factors as discussed by Defendant San Fiesta further below.1) A rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling party’s share of the liability: Defendant San Fiesta reasons that the proposed $12,500.00 settlement is well within the ballpark of its liability for the following reasons: (1) Plaintiff suffered limited bodily injury, lost earnings, and property damage (Chen Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4) and (2) the Court has previously granted Defendant San Fiesta’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on Lintiffs’ claim for hostile environment harassment claim under CCR, § 12120, subd. (a)(2) (See June 4, 2024 Minute Order); Plaintiff cannot maintain her intentional infliction of emotional distress claim, pointing to the Court’s prior ruling granting the Defendant Farmers and Merchants Trust Company’s demurrer as to that cause of action without leave to amend (See November 2, 2021 Minute Order); the Court has previously granted Defendant San Fiesta’s motion for judgment on the pleadings for her Intentional infliction of Emotional Distress claim. (See June 4, 2024 Minute Order.)2) Recognition that a settling party should pay less in settlement than if found liable after a trial: Defendant San Fiesta states that even though it disputes its potential liability in the matter in relation to the remaining defendants, given the contentious nature and substantial costs of litigation, Defendant San Fiesta elected to settle. Given the amount of damages claims, the Court finds Defendant San Fiesta has met its burden in establishing why the amount it will be pay in the settlement is proportionate to its share in liability.3) The allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs: Defendant San Fiesta has agreed to pay $12,500.00 settlement to Plaintiff; there is only one Plaintiff in this action so allocation is moot.4) The settling party's financial condition and insurance policy limits: All settlement payments will be paid by Defendant San Fiesta’s insurance carrier.5) Evidence that the plaintiff and the settling party acted with an intent to make the non-settling parties pay more than their fair share (considered fraud and collusion under Tech-Bilt): Settlement was reached following arm’s length negotiations during mediation on May 6, 2024. (See Chen Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant San Fiesta asserts there are no hidden terms, collusion, fraud or misleading conduct meant to harm the interests of the non-settling parties.Tentative RulingDefendant San Fiesta has made a sufficient showing satisfying the Tech-Bilt factors and, thus, has met its burden that the settlement with Plaintiff is made in good faith pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d). The Court notes no opposition has been filed by any other parties in the case. The motion is GRANTED.