This is a habitability matter.  On June 3, 2024, the Court granted a motion to exclude the testimony of Plaintiffs’ expert, Shilpa Sayana, M.D, on ground that her opinion was unsubstantiated.  Plaintiffs Jennifer Roth and Matthew Lifson now seek leave to augment their expert designation to include Dr. Nachman Brautbar.  Plaintiffs argue that “because of the Court’s ruling and because the deadline to designate expert witnesses has passed, Plaintiffs are left without a medical expert witness and cannot designate one.”Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.620 states,The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:(a) The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.(b) The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.(c) The court has determined either of the following:(1) The moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony.(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.(d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410 ), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.A motion to augment “shall be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.610.)  The cutoff for expert discovery is 15 days before the initial trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.030.)Prior to the Court’s ruling that excluded Plaintiffs’ former expert, it was not foreseeable that an additional expert would be necessary.  Further, Plaintiffs moved promptly within 10 days to augment their expert designation.  The Court will allow the expert discovery cutoff to relate to the current trial date of September 9, 2024, such that (a) the new expert can be available for deposition within the next 14 days and (b) any prejudice to Defendants would be minimized.  A trial continuance can be discussed if necessary.For these reasons, the Motion is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 