 Case Number:  24STCV02230    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiffs Carolyn
Comick, Ebony Franklin and Fred Stewart (collectively, “the Plaintiffs”) were tenants
at a residential property located at 649 Wall St., Los Angeles, CA 90014 (“the Subject
Property”).  Contesting the habitability
of the Subject Property, the Plaintiffs sued Defendants Joshua House Health
Center (“Joshua”), 649 Lofts LP (“649 Lofts”), and SRHT Property Management
Company (“SRHT”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  As alleged in the Plaintiffs’ Complaint, at
all relevant times, 649 Lofts and Joshua co-owned and operated the Subject
Property, and SRHT was the property manager for Joshua and 649 Lofts. 
 
Pending before
the Court is the motion of 649 Lofts and SHRT (“the Moving Defendants”) to
strike Paragraphs 51 and 67 from the Plaintiffs’ complaint, which are there to support
Plaintiffs’ request for an award of exemplary and punitive damages against 649
Lofts and Joshua.  The Moving Defendants
also seek to strike Paragraph 4 of the Complaint’s Prayer for Relief as to 649
Lofts and Joshua, which is the paragraph in which the Plaintiffs request an
award of exemplary and punitive damages against those two Defendants.   The Moving
Defendants contend that the Court should strike these Paragraphs because the
Complaint contains insufficient allegations to support an award of exemplary
and punitive damages.  The Court disagrees
with the Moving Defendants and is denying their motion.  Moving Defendants shall file and serve an
answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint within 14 days.[1]

 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 436 allows a court
to “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” and “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.). The grounds for moving to strike
must An “irrelevant matter” includes a demand for
judgment “requesting relief not supported by the allegations” of the pleading.
(Id. § 431.10(b).) A motion to strike can be used to attack
improper claims for damages that are not supported by the cause of action
pleaded. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:182.) 
 
Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of
punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)¿¿  “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (Id., § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to defendant
with the intention on the part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., § 3294(c)(3).)¿  A motion to strike
punitive damages may lie where the facts alleged do not rise to the level of
“malice, fraud or oppression” required to support a punitive damages award.  (See Turman v. Turning Point of Central
Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  Specific facts alleging
malice, oppression, or fraud must be pleaded in support of a request for punitive
damages. (See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-92.)  The mere fact
that a tort may have been committed is insufficient.  (See Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)   
 
Here, Plaintiffs
seek an award of exemplary and punitive damages against 649 Lofts and Joshua in
connection with the second cause of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint, which asserts
a violation of the breach of implied warranty of habitability of leased
residential property, and the fourth cause of action, which asserts a violation
of Civil Code section 1942.4’s statutory guarantee of habitability of leased
residential property.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 51, 67; Prayer for Relief, ¶ 4.)   In arguing that the allegations in the Complaint
are insufficient to support an award of exemplary and punitive damages, Moving
Defendants point to Paragraphs 44-50 of the Complaint, which are part of the
second cause of action, and Paragraph 60, which is part of the fourth cause of action.
(Motion, pp. 7-8.)  Standing alone, Paragraphs
44-50 and 60 may well be insufficient to support an award of exemplary or
punitive damages.
 
The problem with
the Moving Defendants’ argument is that the Paragraphs to which they point must
be read together with all of the other allegations in the Complaint, not in isolation,
for purposes of determining whether the Complaint contains sufficient
allegations to support an award of exemplary or punitive damages.  (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6 [in considering a motion to strike allegations of entitlement
to punitive damages, “[w]hat is important is that the complaint as a whole
contain sufficient facts to apprise the defendant of the basis upon which
plaintiff is seeking [that] relief.”  The
language that is the subject of the motion to strike “must be read . . . in the
context of the facts alleged in the rest of the [plaintiff’s] complaint.”; see
also Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [“In
ruling on a motion to strike [a punitive damages claim, courts do not read
allegations in isolation.”].) 
 
Here, when
the Complaint is read as a whole, it is evident to the Court that it contains
sufficient allegations that would support a finding by the jury that 649 Lofts
and Joshua acted with the requisite culpability to justify an award of exemplary
or punitive damages against the Defendants. 
In particular, Plaintiffs allege that they “constantly and consistently”
for many years made the Defendants aware of the following substandard
conditions: “inadequate weather protection, inadequate plumbing, dampness and
mold, inadequate sanitation, vermin infestation, structural hazards, nuisance,
inadequate mechanical equipment, failure to maintain premises in a good and
safe condition and harassment. (Complaint, ¶ 19.)  Plaintiffs further allege that despite being
alerted by Plaintiffs to these conditions, “[t]he Defendants consciously
disregarded Plaintiffs’ welfare and tenancy rights by failing to make repairs
or ordinary maintenance at the Subject Property.” (Id., ¶ 29.)  According to the Plaintiffs, the Defendants
made matters worse when they “retaliated against the Plaintiffs [after they] protested
the Subject Property’s deficient condition” by reducing services to the Plaintiffs.
(Id., ¶ 30.)  Plaintiffs allege, moreover,
that the Defendants were placed on further notice of the substandard conditions
by the Los Angeles Housing Department’s inspections and order to repair. (Id.,
¶¶ 21-22, 32.) Nevertheless, the Plaintiffs say, Defendants continued to ignore
the Subject Property’s habitability problems, which Defendants knew “could lead
to conditions that would seriously and materially affect Plaintiffs’ tenancies
and their right to quietly enjoy their living space.” (Id., ¶ 33.) If these
allegations regarding the Defendants’ actions and inactions are proven to be
true at trial, the jury could from there find that Defendants acted maliciously,
oppressively, and fraudulently by consciously disregarding for an extended
period of time Plaintiffs’ rights to habitable premises and their basic
well-being and safety.  
 
Penner v. Falk
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, is instructive. 
In that case, the Court of Appeal affirmed denial of the defendants/landlords’
motion to strike punitive damages allegations when the tenants complaint “sufficiently
allege[d]] facts setting forth long existing physical conditions of the premises
which portend danger for the tenants,” and alleged that the landlords “knew of
those conditions for up to two years, had power to make changes, but failed to
take corrective and curative measures.”  (Id.
at p. 867.)  Summing up its disposition,
the Court of Appeal stated that “[i]f proven true, these allegations would
support an award of punitive damages.”  (Id.
at p. 867.)
 
 
 
 


