  Case Number:  22STCV13903    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  39 Kenneth
Oleesky v. Lithia Motors, Inc.
Case
No. 22STCV13023
Demurrer
to Answer
            
            Plaintiff
Kenneth Oleesky (“Plaintiff”) filed this case against Lithia Motors, Inc.
(“Lithia”) and Van Nuys-L, Inc. (“Van Nuys-L”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
asserting seven causes of action under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”) and one cause of action for failure to pay timely wages upon
discharge, per Labor Code section 201(a). 
Defendants filed an answer raising 39 affirmative defenses to the second
amended complaint, to which Plaintiff demurs. 

 
A plaintiff may
demur to an answer if: “(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  [¶] 
(c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from
the answer whether the contract is written or oral.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  In the answer to the complaint, a defendant
must allege facts to support any matter the defendant will bear the burden to
prove at trial.  (Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) 
A defendant need not allege facts to support any matter the plaintiff
will bear the burden of proof at trial. 
(Ibid.)
 
The Court rules
as follows with respect to each affirmative defense in the first amended
answer, filed on September 28, 2023:
 
1.         Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to state a cause of
action.
 
2.         Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to prove that the
action is timely.  
 
3.         Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient, as this
is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury. 

 
4.         Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.
 
5.         Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
his damages are attributable to action or inaction by Defendants.  
 
6.         Overruled.  Defendants plead sufficient facts that
Plaintiff (based upon his conduct) and Plaintiff’s medical service providers (based
upon having misdiagnosed, mistreated or negligently treated Plaintiff’s
injuries) bear responsibility.
 
7.         Overruled.  Defendants plead sufficient facts to provid
enotice, given the facts plead in connection with the sixth affirmative
defense.
 
8.         Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient, as this
is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury. 

 
9.         Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
there were non-retaliatory reasons for his termination, and Defendants plead
sufficient facts to explain the basis for their position that the termination
was non-retaliatory.  
 
10.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice, given the facts plead in connection with the ninth affirmative defense.
 
11.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that
his injuries were caused, or aggravated, by Defendants’ conduct.  
 
12.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that
he did not fail to mitigate his damages.
 
13.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice, as this is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury.  
 
14.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.  Plaintiff can develop the
evidence during discovery.  
 
15.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that
Defendants’ conduct was unlawful.  
 
16.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.  Plaintiff may develop evidence
on the contention that Defendant “would have terminated Plaintiff based on
facts obtained following his termination.”
 
17.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient, as this
is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury. 
Defendants will develop their legal arguments in any related motion
filed with the Court.
 
18.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that Defendants
acted with fraud, oppression, or malice.
 
19.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient, as these
are legal issues for the Court.
 
20.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.  Plaintiff can develop the
evidence during discovery.
 
21.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.  Plaintiff can develop the
evidence during discovery.
 
22.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice.  Plaintiff can develop the
evidence during discovery.  
 
23.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that he
was qualified for the position. 
Regardless, Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide notice.  Plaintiff can develop the evidence during
discovery.    
 
24.       The Court interprets this defense—“Same
Actors/Positive and Adverse Action”—as meaning that there was no discriminatory
or retaliatory animus because “the same actors carried out both positive and
adverse action affecting Plaintiff’s employment . . . .”  Because it is Plaintiff’s burden to establish
that Defendants acted with discriminatory and/or retaliatory animus, the
demurrer is overruled.
 
25.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
Defendants took action against Plaintiff and ratified any conduct (for purposes
of punitive damages).
 
26.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient because
this is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury.  Defendants will develop their arguments
during any motion on this issue.
 
27.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient because
this is a legal issue for the Court, not the jury.  Defendants will develop their arguments
during any motion on this issue.
 
28.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
Defendants acted willfully.
 
29.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
all wages were not paid.
 
30.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
the failure to pay wages was willful.
 
31.       Sustained.  The fact that Plaintiff was an at-will
employee is not a defense in this case. 
An employer is not permitted to terminate an at-will employee for the
alleged reasons in the complaint.  The
Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
 
32.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice, and Plaintiff can develop this evidence in discovery.  However, the Court may exclude evidence that
is inadmissible under the collateral source rule.  Therefore, the Court’s ruling is without
prejudice to a motion in limine.  
 
33.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that he
was disabled.
 
34.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that he
was willing to participate in the interactive process.
 
35.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
Defendants ratified the conduct at issue for purposes of punitive damages.
 
36.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that
each defendant is an employer for purposes of the causes of action.
 
37.       Overruled.  Defendants’ pleading is sufficient to provide
notice, and Plaintiff can develop the evidence during discovery.
 
38.       Overruled.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that he
was able to perform the essential functions of the position.
 
39.       Sustained.  This is not an affirmative defense.  If Defendants wish to raise additional
affirmative defenses, they must seek leave to amend.  The Court sustains the demurrer without leave
to amend unless the Court later grants a stipulation or motion.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s demurrer to the amended
answer is sustained in part and overruled in part.
 
            2.         The Court sustains the demurrer to the
31st and 39th affirmative defenses without leave to amend.
 
            3.         The Court overrules the demurrer in all
other respects.  This order is without
prejudice to Plaintiff seeking to exclude inadmissible evidence by way of a
motion in limine (e.g., evidence that is inadmissible under the collateral
source rule, etc.)
 
            4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 