  Case Number:  23BBCV02551    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 9, 2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02551

 



MP:  


Edward Shkolnikov dba EFS Law Center
  (Defendant)
   




RP:  


Precise
  MRI Corporation (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the
Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and
any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by
4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to
appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Precise MRI Corporation (Plaintiff) brings this action
against Edward Shkolnikov dba EFS Law
Center (Defendant).
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to pay amounts owed under 34 separate
medical liens Defendant executed with Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that they
rendered medical services for Defendant’s clients yet have received no
compensation pursuant to their agreements. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint contains causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Conversion, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Declaratory
Judgment as to Past Due Balances, (5) Declaratory Judgment as to Future
Transactions, (6) Constructive Trust, (7) Resulting Trust, (8) Unjust
Enrichment, and (9) Legal Malpractice. 
 
Defendant now demurs to causes of action two through nine. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
The Court notes that despite Defendant’s filing being
labeled “Demurer with Motion to Strike”, no motion to strike was filed. As
such, this tentative ruling addresses solely the demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet
and confer requirements were met. (Shkolnikov Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Second COA –
Conversion – Overruled 
 
“Conversion is the
wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a
conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition
of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee
v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
Normally, money
cannot be converted. (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) However, money can be the subject of a conversion
action when a specific sum capable of identification is involved. (See SP
Investment Fund I LLC v. Cattell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 898, 907.)
 
The simple failure to
pay money owed does not constitute conversion, otherwise the tort of conversion
would swallow the category of contract claims based on the “mere contractual
right of payment. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1151.) Cases
recognizing claims for the conversion of money “typically involve those who
have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied specific funds held for the
benefit of others.” (Id. at 1152.)
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff has sufficiently stated a cause of action for conversion. Defendant’s
primary argument is that a cause of action for conversion cannot be stated for
money unless an exact some is specified, citing McKell. The Court agrees
that the law does not permit an action for conversion without a specified sum,
however the Court finds that such a sum has been sufficiently alleged in the
Complaint. Plaintiff’s Exhibit A to the Complaint contains an accounting of all
34 medical liens which are the subject of this action. Exhibit A contains an “Amount
Due” next to each listing, showing the specific sum of money to which Plaintiff
alleges they are entitled. Taking the pleadings as true, as the Court must do
on Demurrer, it appears Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a specified sum such
that they can state a claim for conversion. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third COA – Breach of
Fiduciary Duty – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has not alleged the existence of a fiduciary duty. Defendant states
that the existence of a contractual agreement between parties is insufficient
to create a fiduciary duty (See Gonsalves v. Hodgson, 38 Cal. 2d 91, 99;
Faverly Productions, Inc. v. RKO General, Inc., 217 Cal. App. 2d 721,
732.)
 
Plaintiff argues that
the law specifically creates a fiduciary duty between the holders of funds in
escrow and the parties to an escrow agreement. Plaintiff cites Kangarlou v.
Progressive Title Co., Inc., which held that an escrow holder assumes
a fiduciary duty when he agrees to execute the escrow. (See Kangarlou v.
Progressive Title Co., Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1179.) The
court in Kangarlou noted that this fiduciary duty was to “comply
strictly with the parties’ instructions” (Id.) 
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s argument misstates the meaning of escrow for purposes of
determining a fiduciary duty.  “An escrow
involves the deposit of documents and/or money with a third party to be
delivered on the occurrence of some condition.” (Summit Financial Holdings,
Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711.) Kangarlou
concerned the holding of escrow funds by a real estate agent who refused to
comply with the purchaser’s request to back out of the deal. (Kangarlou
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at 1176.) In Kangarlou the existence of funds
held in escrow was without doubt, the plaintiff clearly alleged that she had
deposited funds with the escrow holder to be paid on the occurrence of a
condition. 
 
In many ways the
situation in Kangarlou is the reverse of the situation here. Here,
Plaintiff has not deposited any funds with Defendant that were to be paid out
on a certain condition. The funds to which Plaintiff claims they are entitled
are predicated on the occurrence of a condition (the success of the underlying
lawsuit), but Plaintiff did not deposit funds with Defendant with specific
instruction as to how they should be paid out. Plaintiff is arguing they are
entitled to funds that were to be held in trust, not that Plaintiff deposited
funds into escrow and Defendant subsequently ignored their wishes. 
 
A cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty requires plaintiff to plead that defendant knowingly
undertook to act on behalf of or for the benefit of another or entered into a
relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
221.) Here, Plaintiff has not alleged any duty outside of that created by
contract. Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant did not disburse funds held in trust
speaks explicitly to the provisions of the agreement and not any special
relationship between the parties, nor can the Court foresee facts supporting
this cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Fourth COA –
Declaratory Judgment as to Past Due Balances – Sustained Without Leave to Amend

 
“The declaratory
relief statute should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and
determining an issue which can be determined in the main action. The object of
the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed and not to furnish a
litigant with a second cause of action for the determination of identical
issues.” (General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.)
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint
presents no allegations which are specific to the cause of action for
Declaratory Judgment. It appears the relief sought in this cause of action, a
determination of past due balances, is already requested in Plaintiff’s claim
for breach of contract.  Further, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that they have been unable to determine
balances to be unlikely in light of their inclusion of Exhibit A, which lists
the amounts due for each lien. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action
– Declaratory Judgment as to Future Transactions – Overruled
 
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and
brackets omitted.)
 
In Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC the Court of
Appeals created a conceptual framework classifying declaratory relief into
three types for the purpose of determining whether the trial court erred by
dismissing a declaratory relief cause of action. 
 
A “Type 1”
declaratory relief cause of action, the complaint alleges only a past breach of
contract, a breach of contract remedy is available, and declaratory relief is
unnecessary to guide future conduct. (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc.
v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 365 &
366-368.) The court must dismiss the Type 1 type of declaratory relief claims.
(Id.) 
 
A “Type 2”
declaratory relief cause of action alleges an actual and ongoing controversy,
such as a continuing contractual relationship, and future consequences that
depend on the court’s interpretation of the contract. (Id. at 369-371.)
A trial court must not dismiss a Type 2 declaratory relief cause of action. (Id.
at 365.)
 
A “Type 3”
declaratory relief cause of action alleges a current controversy over a past
breach of contract and the potential a declaration of the parties’ rights under
a contract might be necessary to guide the parties’ future conduct in a
continuing contractual relationship. (Id. at 374-376.) A trial court has
discretion to dismiss a Type 3 declaratory relief cause of action. (Id.
at p. 365.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action is for declaratory relief specifically concerning any
medical liens which are still pending. As opposed to the fourth cause of action
seeking a determination of contracts already alleged to be breached, this cause
of action is concerned with the contracts where Defendant’s client has not
achieved resolution. As such, it appears to the Court that the declaratory
relief sought is “Type 2” under Osseous and cannot be dismissed.
Plaintiff has alleged a controversy has arisen as to Defendant’s obligations to
notify them when a client is paid out and Defendant’s obligation to disburse
funds to Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action
– Constructive Trust – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Defendant argues that
the sixth cause of action is improper because Constructive Trust is an
equitable remedy and not a cause of action. Plaintiff’s opposition contains no
argument regarding he sixth cause of action. 
 
A constructive trust
is not a cause of action; it is a remedy. (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc.
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 277, fn. 4; American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1485 [constructive trust is not
a substantive claim for relief].)
 
Imposition of “[a]
constructive trust is an equitable remedy to compel the transfer of property by
one who is not justly entitled to it to one who is.” (Habitat Trust for
Wildlife, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cucamonga (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1306,
1332.) It is not “a substantive claim for relief.” (PCO, Inc. v.
Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384, 398.) The issue of whether to impose a constructive trust
is an equitable issue for the court. (See Fowler v. Fowler (1964) 227
Cal.App.2d 741, 747 [“it is for the trial court to decide whether” the
plaintiff has proven entitlement to a constructive trust].) The trial court
erred by submitting the issue of whether to impose a constructive trust to the
jury.” (American Master Lease supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at 1485.) 
 
As the Court
understands, Defendant does not claim a remedy of a constructive trust would
not be proper should Plaintiff prove the allegations of the Complaint. All that
appears to be accomplished by this demurrer is to remove the heading of the
sixth cause of action. Nothing precludes Plaintiff from including allegations
of constructive trust as part of another cause of action or in their prayer for
relief. 
 
This cause of action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Seventh COA –
Resulting Trust – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Defendant similarly
asserts that no cause of action exists for Resulting Trust. As with
constructive trusts, the Court of Appeal has clearly ruled that a resulting
trust is only a remedy, not a cause of action. (Stansfield v. Starkey
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 76, [citation omitted].)
 
Accordingly, the
demurer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Eighth COA – Unjust
Enrichment – Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
Defendant argues
Unjust Enrichment is not a recognized cause of action in California. Plaintiff
makes no argument regarding this cause of action in their opposition. 
 
Some California
courts have held unjust enrichment is a principle of relief, not an independent
cause of action. (See Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1370.) Other courts, including the Supreme Court, treat unjust enrichment
as an independent cause of action. (Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. v. J.R.
Marketing LLC (2014) 61 Cal.4th 988, 995.) Restitution based on unjust
enrichment can be alleged when services were provided under an express contract
that is void or rescinded. (Rutherford Holdings, LLC (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 231.) 
 
While the Court
understands the split in authority, it elects to follow the Supreme Court’s  holding in Hartford Casualty. However,
the Court still finds the cause of action is subject to demurrer. “[A]s a
matter of law, a quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not lie
where, as here, express binding agreements exist and define the parties’
rights.” (California Medical Ass’n, Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of
California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 151, 172; see also Wal-Noon Corp.
v. Hill (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 605, 650) Here, the rights and obligations of
the parties are expressly governed by written agreement. Plaintiff has alleged
no obligation of Defendant which does not derive from the contract between
them. As such, Plaintiff’s cause of action for unjust enrichment is subject to
demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Ninth COA – Legal
Malpractice – Sustained Without Leave to Amend
 
“To state a cause of
action for legal malpractice, a plaintiff must plead (1) the duty of the
attorney to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence.” (Kumaraperu v. Feldsted (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 60, 66, [quotation marks omitted].)
 
Defendant’s argument
on demur is simple. Defendant asserts that because Plaintiff was not his
client, they cannot allege Defendant owed them a duty to exercise skill,
prudence, and diligence in rendering legal services. 
 
Plaintiff argues that,
although they are not clients, Defendant still owed them a duty to exercise
legal services with due care. Plaintiff argues that when an attorney agrees to
hold third party funds in trust, they are considered to be practicing law. In
support of this argument Plaintiff cites Johnstone v. State Bar.
Plaintiff argues that the Johnstone court held that an attorney who
misappropriates trust funds held on behalf of a non-client third party is “engaging
in the practice of law” (See Opp. p. 7, citing Johnstone v. State Bar (1966)
64 Cal.2d 153, 155-156.)  
 
The Court finds Johnstone
contains no such language. Johnstone contains no aversion to a civil
claim for legal malpractice, rather the case specifically concerned a State Bar
disciplinary action. The Johnstone court found that violation of a
fiduciary duty to a non-client third-party was sufficient to support the
issuance of disciplinary action from the State Bar. (Id.) Nowhere in the
ruling of Johnstone does the court state that the disciplined attorney
was engaging in the practice of law. Nor does the Court opine that such
behavior is civilly actionable by a non-client third party. 
 
Plaintiff’s reliance
on Rule 1.15 “Safekeeping Funds and Property of Clients and Other Persons” is
similarly unpersuasive. While Rule 1.15 does define mishandling of funds as
sanctionable, it does not follow that violation of the rule creates a civil
cause of action. 
 
Further, Plaintiff
cannot allege legal malpractice as a non-client. “With certain exceptions, an
attorney has no obligation to a non-client for the consequences of professional
negligence—that is, the attorney is not burdened with any duty toward
non-clients merely because of his or her status as an attorney. The imposition
of a duty of professional care toward non-clients has generally been confined
to those situations wherein the non-client was an intended beneficiary of the
attorney’s services, or where it was reasonably foreseeable that negligent
service or advice to or on behalf of the client could cause harm to others.” (Fox
v. Pollack (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 954, 960.) Here, any benefit Plaintiff
could be entitled to would be based on Defendant’s agreement to provide legal
services to his clients. Plaintiff cannot reasonably claim that they were the “intended
beneficiary” of these legal services such that Defendant would be liable to
them. 
 
In short, the Court
does not find that Johnstone and Rule 1.15 create a legal duty which
Defendant owed Plaintiff. In the absence of authority to the contrary, it does
not appear that Plaintiff could ever adequately plead a cause of action for
legal malpractice. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Edward
Shkolnikov dba EFS Law Center’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on April 9, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED AS TO THE SECOND AND FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION.
 
THE
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SEVENTH, AND
EIGHTH CAUSES OF ACTION.  
 
THE
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE THIRD, FOURTH, SIXTH,
AND NINTH CAUSES OF ACTION. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 9,
2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 