  Case Number:  20SMCV00486    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Liu, v. JCTLA
Investment Corp., et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00486
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   9/4/2024

 
Legal
Standard
            
If a party fails to obey a
court order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are: 
 
(a) [A] monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…. 
 
(b) [A]n issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
 
(c) [A]n evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
 
(d) [A] terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed. 
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. 
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party. 
 
(e) [A] contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
 
(CCP § 2023.030.) 
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The burden of proof then shifts to the
party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory excuse for his or
her conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Justin
Liu moves for an order imposing terminating, issue, evidence, and/or monetary
sanctions against Defendant Jean Liu and Defendant/Cross-Complainant JCTLA
Investment Corp. Plaintiff argues that Defendants have committed discovery
abuse by failing to produce Ms. Liu for deposition, objecting to proposed
deposition times based on an unverified claim that the Defendant is in poor
health, disobeying the Court’s January 8, 2024, order that the deposition for
both parties should go forward; not providing supplemental discovery responses
as ordered by this Court; and not paying previously-ordered monetary sanctions.  The Court will exercise its discretion to
consider Ms. Liu’s untimely opposition, as the arguments and evidence presented
therein support the imposition of sanctions.
 
 Upon review of the entire record, the Court
concurs that Defendants/Cross-Complainants engaged in willful discovery abuse. Defendants
have repeatedly refused to submit to their duly noticed and Court-ordered
deposition, among other abuses.
 
Ms. Liu’s Deposition 
 
Most glaringly, Defendants
disobeyed the Court’s January 8, 2024, and June 11, 2024, orders requiring
Defendants’ deposition. On December 28, 2023, Defendants brought an ex parte
application based on their representation that Ms. Liu was unable to be deposed
and unable to appear at trial because of ongoing medical treatments. At the
January 8, 2024, final status conference, the Court vacated the upcoming trial
date, ordered the depositions of the parties to move forward, and ordered Ms.
Liu to file a declaration regarding her diagnosis before the next hearing. On
March 25, 2024, Defendants filed and served a purported Declaration of Dr. Chen
Shin-Cheh. The declaration relays that Ms. Liu “began a one-year program of
painful, weekly chemotherapy and other target oncological treatments,” and that
she receives “daily treatment” at a hospital or clinic, which lasts “all day
and requires her to stay overnight due to her weakened condition,” that she may
receive radiation treatment in the future, and that she had her lymph nodes
removed, which causes weakness in her arms and hands. (Shin-Cheh Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms.
Liu also receives “painful” and “stressful” treatment which adversely affects
her brain and memory and causes her to speak at a whisper. (¶ 3.) Plaintiff
presented countervailing declarations from Mandarin Chinese experts stating
that the declaration was not signed by Dr. Shin-Cheh, but instead someone
called “Gao Ruoyun.” (See Martin Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Wright Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
Defendants have consistently
opposed Ms. Liu’s deposition because she was “not well enough to be deposed at
this time.” (E.g., Turner Decl. ¶ 16, Ex. 10.) Eventually, on June 11, 2024,
the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Ms. Liu’s deposition,
individually and as PMQ of JCTLA. When Ms. Liu appeared for deposition, Ms. Liu
did not answer questions, and her responses were inaudible and unintelligible. Ms.
Liu also apparently could not sit up or raise her hand above her mouth. 
 
Based on its own review of the entirety
of the record, the Court seriously doubts that Ms. Liu was genuinely unable to
speak audibly, sit up, lift up her hand above her shoulder, or otherwise meaningfully
participate in the deposition. First, Plaintiff submitted video evidence contradicting
Ms. Liu’s claimed physical disabilities. A few hours after the deposition of
Ms. Liu, Ms. Liu is observed getting into a car unassisted by her attendant,
and holding up her own weight. This is a far cry from the woman who apparently
could not raise her hand or sit up for any portion of the deposition. Second,
Ms. Liu has not provided any evidence supporting her course of treatment and
its effects on her ability to testify. The limited evidence she has provided
only suggests that Ms. Liu’s credibility on these issues must be questioned. Defendants
conceded at hearing that Dr. Shin-Cheh did not sign the declaration, but contended
that it was acceptable for Dr. Shin-Cheh’s assistant to sign the declaration.
Despite being given further opportunities to do so, Defendants have declined to
provide Ms. Liu’s treating physician’s declaration. This hole in the record
weighs heavily against Defendants’ explanation. 
 
Ms. Liu has been unwilling to
explain basic facts about the course of her treatment. 
Despite the probable ease of verifying her course of
treatment, Ms. Liu has been unable to do so in any appropriate level of detail.
Ms. Liu has presented no objective evidence or declarations from third parties
which might verify her treatment or condition. Instead, Ms. Liu only presented
a fraudulent declaration. In light of these facts, the Court can only conclude
that Ms. Liu is intentionally exaggerating the effects of her purported cancer
treatment in order to avoid deposition. Therefore, Ms. Liu has committed
willful discovery abuse. 
 
Failure to Obey Other Discovery Orders
 
            Plaintiff
also shows that Defendants have failed to obey several other discovery orders.  On January 5, 2024, the Court ordered JCTLA
to serve further supplemental responses within 5 days to a total of 33 special
interrogatories, including nos. 217, 223, 226, 229, 232, 235, 238,
240, 241, 243, 244, 247, 249, 250, 253, 255, 256, 262, 265,
271, 274, 277, 279, 280, 282, 283,
286, 291, 294, 295, 297, 298, and 301. (Turner Decl., ¶19.) To
date, JCTLA has not served further responses and has not paid monetary sanctions.
(Turner Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
The Court also ordered JCTLA to
serve supplemental responses to request for production nos. 13, 14, 15, 16, and
17, within 5 days. (Turner Decl., ¶ 27.) JCTLA has not served further responses
and has not paid those monetary sanctions, in violation of the Court's order.
(Turner Decl., ¶28.)  Additionally, in
Jean's supplemental responses to request for production, set one, Ms. Liu
agreed to produce several categories of documents, specifically in response to
the following requests:
 
• RFP No. 5 - All JCTLA
shareholders’ meeting minutes for each meeting from
January 1, 2005 to date.
• RFP No. 7 - All JCTLA board of
directors’ meeting minutes for each meeting from
January 1, 2005 to date; and
• RFP No. 9 - All of JCTLA board of
directors’ resolutions from January 1, 2005 to
date.
 
(Turner Decl., ¶ 37.) Ms. Liu has
not produced any of the above requested documents. (Id. ¶ 38.) Plaintiff also
claims that the ordered monetary sanctions remain largely unpaid in the amount
of $6,955.00. (Id., ¶¶ 17-22.)
 
In light of the entirety of the
record, Defendants had notice and actual knowledge of these discovery
obligations and orders. Yet, Defendants have disregarded the majority of this Court’s
orders. These violations provide additional, independent grounds for sanctions.
 
Justification for Conduct
 
Defendants argue that this motion
is based on misrepresentations by Plaintiff. Defendants claim that Ms. Liu was
willing to provide testimony, despite her painful cancer treatment which
affects her memory, concentration, and physical and mental strength. Defendants
note that Plaintiff’s counsel terminated the deposition after only a few
minutes and made no effort to reschedule. Defendants further admit that Ms. Liu
is the only person who could appropriately be deposed on behalf of JCTLA.
Defendants suggest that Ms. Liu’s memory issues will improve after Ms. Liu’s
treatment completes in “October or November.” 
 
Ms. Liu presents another
perfunctory declaration in opposition to this motion, attempting to explain her
behavior at the deposition. Ms. Liu claims that she lacked the strength to sit
up in the bed during the 2-hour deposition. Ms. Liu claims that mornings are
usually very difficult for her, and she experiences increased dizziness and
inability to concentrate, both of which improve during the day. 
 
Defendants fail to justify Ms.
Liu’s conduct at deposition and fail to address the outstanding written
discovery. The deposition was noticed at 6:00 a.m. CST to accommodate
Ms. Liu’s daily treatment schedule. Ms. Liu is still not forthcoming when she
is available to be deposed, or regarding her treatment generally. Defendants
have not provided any assurances that Ms. Liu will be able to be deposed.
Defendants do not specify a timeline of her expected recovery, leaving the
details of Ms. Liu’s treatment intentionally vague. The Court appreciates that
Ms. Liu has a right to privacy concerning her medical treatments. Indeed, her
treatments have little to do with the substance of this action and would not be
subject to discovery. The Court recognizes that a deponent may, in fact, be too
sick to testify and should be accommodated accordingly. However, the Court
expects at least a modicum of independent evidence in support of her
extraordinary claim that she cannot speak. Ms. Liu has proffered her medical
condition as an excuse to avoid her discovery obligations and must present
evidence for this excuse. Simply put, Ms. Liu has not done so. Ms. Liu has
presented no declaration or other evidence from a medical doctor to explain her
purported treatments, i.e., the medicine or medical treatment Ms. Liu receives which
would cause her inability to speak, and her expected recovery, if any.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s video evidence undercuts
her contentions that she is too weak to even sit up and answer questions.
 
            Critically,
Ms. Liu does not address the outstanding discovery discussed above, including
the numerous request for production of documents and special interrogatories. (See
Gentino Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) Ms. Liu has thus failed to justify her willful failure
to obey the January 5, 2024. discovery orders. 
 
Appropriate Sanctions
 
The Court has wide discretion to
impose sanctions for the abuse of discovery. (See City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, (2024) No. S277211, 2024 WL 3894042 [general
sanctions provisions of Civil Discovery Act authorized trial court to impose
monetary sanctions against city for egregious pattern of discovery misuse,
rather than limiting trial court to imposing sanctions for each individual
violation of discovery rules that fell into a specific sanctions provision of
the Act corresponding to a specific discovery method].) 
 
First, monetary sanctions are imposed
against Defendants and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the total amount
of $11,260.50 to account for the fees and costs associated with the instant
motion and Defendants’ deposition misconduct. (Turner Decl., ¶¶ 39-43; Supp.
Turner Decl., ¶ 8-9.) Given that Defendants have failed to pay previous
monetary sanctions and continue to disobey the Court orders, monetary sanctions
alone will have no effect on Defendants. More severe sanctions must therefore
be imposed.
 
Plaintiff requests terminating sanctions,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030(d), striking Defendants'
Answer to the operative First Amended Complaint and JCTLA’s operative Second
Amended Cross-Complaint. Here, Defendants have disregarded their discovery
obligations in this matter, necessitating numerous discovery motions and IDCs. Defendants
have repeatedly filed late oppositions and last-minute ex parte applications in
an effort to delay discovery in this matter. Defendants have prevented
essential depositions and discovery, which are necessary to prove Plaintiff’s
complaint and defend Defendants’ cross-complaint. Defendants conduct has caused
this action to linger for over four years. Litigation between the parties began
over six years ago with the underlying action, JCTLA v. Liu, case no. SC129544.
Defendants should not be allowed to benefit from further delay. 
 
In light of the severity of the
abuse, the Court concurs that terminating sanctions are appropriate against
Cross-Defendants’ action. Therefore, the Court strikes the cross-complaint. At
this time, however, the Court does not strike Defendants’ answer to Plaintiff’s
operative First Amended Complaint. Instead, the Court will grant the noticed
evidentiary sanctions (nos. 1-31) which prohibits Defendants from raising the
specified issues or introducing evidence to attempt to prove such issues.  The Court also precludes Jean Liu from testifying
at trial as requested in Plaintiff’s supplemental motion for sanctions.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as
set forth herein.   Monetary sanctions
are payable within 45 days.