  Case Number:  20STCV44242    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  30 GUSTAVO GONZALEZ SOTO, et al. vs GOTHIC LANDSCAPING, INC.Petition for Approval of Minor's CompromiseOSC re DismissalTENTATIVEThe Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference call.The Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim of a Minor (Kimberly Gonzalez Rayo, Age 6). The Court finds the settlement is reasonable, however the following issues preclude the granting of the petition at this time:(1) Item 18b(2) of the petition requests that the settlement funds be deposited into a blocked account, however, item 20 requests the funds be released to the Petitioner, because the amount is less than $5,000. It is unclear why the petition is in this posture when Petitioner, who is Claimant’s parent according to item 1 of the petition, can check off item 18b(5) of the petition, instead of 18b(2), for this same request. As such, Petitioner is ordered to do so, or alternatively, to provide an explanation as to why she has elected to proceed in this manner.(2) If item 18b(5) is to be checked off indicating the net settlement amount is to be delivered to the parent/Petitioner, Petitioner is ordered to submit a declaration of written assurance.(3) If Petitioner would like the net settlement to be delivered to her, the proposed order should not check off item 9a, nor should the bank information be filled out here. Item 9c(2) of the proposed order should also not be filled out. It is also unclear why there is an order to deposit into a blocked account.Accordingly, the hearing on the petition is CONTINUED 60 for day in Department 30 at Spring Street. Counsel is ordered to file a new petition and proposed orders correcting the defects identified above. The Court is mindful that this matter has not been brought to trial within three years, and settlement has been pending since February 28, 2023. At the next hearing, if the petition is not corrected, then the Court will set a trial date.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.