 Case Number:  21BBCV00927    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  A  
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Roberto
Chaidez, on behalf of the State of California and other aggrieved persons
(Plaintiff), brings this action under the Private Attorney General Act (PAGA)
against Pitfire Artisan Pizza & Deluxe
Foods, LLC (Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that he and other employees of
Defendants were subject to several violations of the California Labor Code. 
 
Defendants now move to dismiss the entirety of
this action without prejudice. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s representative
PAGA claims are precluded on the grounds of res judicata. Defendants represent
that Plaintiff’s claims are indistinguishable from those in LASC Case No. 21SMCV01464, known as Samuel Sachs
v. American Gonzo Food Co. LLC (Sachs).  Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to dismiss an action is a proper method of raising the question that the causes
of action are res judicata and such motion may be supported by affidavits
setting forth facts which tend to prove the grounds of the motion. (Best v.
Fitzgerald (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 965, 967.)
 
The
doctrine of res judicata applies if (1) the decision in the prior proceeding is
final and on the merits, (2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of
action as the prior proceeding, and (3) the parties in the present proceeding,
or parties in privity with them, were parties to the prior proceeding. (Villacres
v. ABM Industries Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 562, 577.)
 
A
court-approved settlement, entered as a judgment, is considered final and on
the merits for purposes of res judicata. (See Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club of Southern California (1989) 209 CA3d 177, 182 [“If the
matter was within the scope of the action, related to the subject matter and
relevant to the issues, so that it could have been raised, the judgment is
conclusive on it despite the fact that it was not in fact expressly pleaded or
otherwise urged.”]; Citizens for Open Access to Sand & Tide, Inc.
(1989) 60 CA4th 1053, 1065-1068 [Under the California res judicata doctrine,
the causes of action need not identify the same facts or theories for recovery
or even allege the same wrongdoing for res judicata to apply. Rather, the two
actions need only “affect the same primary right.”]; Villacres supra,
189 Cal.App.4th 562 at 583-584.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
Defendants request judicial
notice of the following: 
 
1.      The Complaint in this matter, filed on October
22, 2021
2.      The Amended PAGA Letter to the LWDA in the Sachs
matter, sent August 25, 202
3.      The First Amended Complaint in the Sachs matter,
filed on September 2, 2021
4.      The Settlement Agreement in the Sachs matter,
dated October 25, 2023 
5.      The Order Approving PAGA Settlement in the Sachs
matter, dated December 5, 2023
 
Pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(c), the Court may take judicial notice of records of any
court in the state of California. However,
while courts may take judicial notice of court records, the truth of matters
asserted in such documents is not subject to judicial notice. (Arce v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s request is GRANTED. 

 
Facts re: Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff worked for
Defendants from approximately September 2019 to approximately October 2020.
(Compl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff provided notice to the Labor & Workforce
Development Agency (LWDA), as required by statute, on August 13, 2021. (Fattahi
Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff filed his Complaint in this action on October 22,
2021. 
 
Facts re: Sachs
 
The operative complaint in
the Sachs action was filed on September 2, 2021. (RJN Exh. 3.) The
plaintiff in the Sachs actions sought to represent all employees of
Defendants who were employed from October 31, 2019 through April 26, 2021. (RJN
Exh. 3 ¶ 26.) On October 25, 2023, the Sachs case was resolved via
court approved settlement agreement. (RJN Exhs. 4 & 5.) The agreement
states that it covers the period of PAGA claims from October 19, 2020 to
December 5, 2023. (RJN Exh. 4, ¶ 1.21.) The release of claims in the Sachs
agreement is for claims ranging from October 19, 2020 to December 5, 2023.
(RJN Exh. 5.) 
 
Analysis 
 
From the moving and
opposing papers it appears the parties disagree as to the application of res
judicata to Plaintiff’s claims. Defendants argue that the claims in Sachs
are entirely dispositive of Plaintiff’s claims, while Plaintiff argues that the
Sachs agreement omits a large portion of time for which Plaintiff’s PAGA
claim existed. The Court finds that the fact that the Sachs agreement
does not cover the same time frame as Plaintiff’s claims renders dismissal
inappropriate at this time. 
 
Plaintiff argues that
because the Sachs agreement covers from October 19, 2020 to December 5,
2023, there exists an eight-month period in which Plaintiff’s PAGA claims are
unaccounted for. Plaintiff’s calculation of eight months is based on his
interpretation of Emergency Rule 9, which tolled the statute of limitations for
civil actions during the COVID-19 state of emergency. The Court does not find
Plaintiff’s argument regarding the statute of limitations and Emergency Rule 9
to be persuasive Plaintiff asserts, without authority, that Emergency Rule 9
applies to filing a PAGA claim with the LWDA. This application does not appear
on the face of the statute and, in the absence of authority stating otherwise,
the Court does not find the statute also tolled the period for filing
administrative notices. 
 
Regardless, it is
undisputed that there is a period for which Plaintiff’s PAGA claims (PAGA
Period) exists that are not covered by the Sachs agreement. Defendant’s
reply concedes that there is a period of 62 days, at most, which are
unaccounted for by the Sachs agreement. (See Reply p. 6.) This is
calculated by determining the date in which the Complaint was filed and
subtracting the relevant statute of limitations. Labor Code § 2699.3 provides
that an employee may file a PAGA action if an employer has not responded to
their complaint within 65 days. Additionally, the statute of limitations in a
PAGA action is one year from date of alleged violation. (C.C.P. § 340(a).)
Subtracting the one-year statute of limitations and the 65-day waiting period
from Plaintiff’s time of filing results in a PAGA period results in a PAGA
period which starts August 18, 2020. 
 
While the discrepancy in
PAGA periods may appear inconsequential to Defendants, the Court finds it
sufficient to invalidate their motion to dismiss. While a motion to dismiss may
be appropriately stated on res judicata grounds, the moving party must present
facts supporting all the elements of res judicata. (See Best v. Fitzgerald supra,
81 Cal.App.2d 9at 967.) Here, the first element of res judicata, that a final
determination has been made in a previous matter, is missing. It is clear from
the judicially noticed documents that some of Plaintiff’s claims are not
subject to a final determination under the Sachs agreement. As such, to
dismiss the entirety of this action on res judicata grounds would be improper. 
 
The Court understands
Defendant’s argument in reply that the lion share of Plaintiff’s claims are
barred by res judicata, but Plaintiff seeks dismissal entirely. The primary
authority on which Defendants rely, Villacres v. ABM Industries Inc., is
procedurally inapposite. Villacres concerned the determination of a
summary judgment motion in which the court considered substantial evidence. (Villacres
supra, 189 Cal.App.4th 562 at 583-584.) In entering summary judgment in the
defendant’s favor, the court reasoned that, as a class member in the prior
litigation, the plaintiff could have added his PAGA claim to the prior suit. (Id.
at 584-85.) It did not matter that he did not actually do so for res judicata
purposes. “Simply put, [the plaintiffs] PAGA claims were within the scope of
the [prior California Labor Code class action] litigation and were related to
the subject matter and issues in that action: the payment of wages and
penalties by the same employer.” (Id. at 584.)
 
Here, the Court has been
presented only with judicially noticed documents and has been presented with no
evidence as to the actual PAGA violations Plaintiff asserts. If Defendants
believe that Plaintiff suffered no PAGA violations that fall outside of the
scope of the Sachs agreement, they are entitled to present evidence of
such on a motion for summary judgment. Similarly, to the extent Defendant’s
believe Plaintiff’s claims could have been presented in the Sachs litigation,
they must show evidence of that fact. The Court declines to subvert the
evidentiary showings required by granting a motion to dismiss where the claims
do not perfectly overlap. While Defendants may have strong arguments for the
preclusion of most of Plaintiff’s claims, they have not demonstrated that the
entire action should be dismissed. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
dismiss is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Pitfire Artisan Pizza
& Deluxe Foods, LLC’s Motion to Dismiss came on
regularly for hearing on March 15, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DISMISS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DELUXE FOODS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 