 Case Number:  23BBCV00124    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless
the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be
permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m.
on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and
argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no
notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Melise Vartanians
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Rafik Bazikian,
428 E. Santa Anita HOA, Artur Nersisyan, Nora Ivanyan (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that she was attacked by a dog owned by Defendants,
which resided at property owned by Rafik Bazikian. Plaintiff also alleges the
Santa Anita HOA negligently maintained the premises such that a dog with
dangerous propensities was allowed to reside there. Plaintiff’s Complaint
contains causes of action for (1) General Negligence, (2) Premises Liability,
and (3) Strict Liability. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for leave to amend her Complaint to add an additional cause of action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiff also seeks to add
further facts as to the Negligence cause of action. Plaintiff seeks permission
of the Court to amend as Artur Nersisyan has filed a responsive pleading.
Defendants have rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
Plaintiff’s
previous motion for leave to amend was denied for failure to attach proof of
service. Plaintiff’s current motion attaches proof of service showing adequate
notice to Defendants. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature. (See Id. at 1048.) The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid defense as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment. (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court Rule (C.R.C.) 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading
shall: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.
 
Under C.R.C.
Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff
has satisfied the requirements of C.R.C. Rules 3.1324(a) and (b). 
 
Plaintiff attaches a
proposed First Amended Complaint. (Sepanosian Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiffs also
state the allegations that are proposed to be deleted and the allegations that
are to be added. (Mot. pgs. 7-15.) Plaintiff also attaches a copy of the
original complaint. (Sepanosian Decl. Exh. A.) These showings are sufficient to
satisfy Plaintiff’s obligation under C.R.C. Rule 3.1324(a).
 
Plaintiff states that the
discovery process has illuminated the potential for an additional claim of Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress. (Sepanosian Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also states
that discovery process has illuminated further facts to be added to the Negligence
cause of action. (Sepanosian Decl. ¶ 6.) These showings are sufficient to
satisfy Plaintiff’s obligation under C.R.C. Rule 3.1324 3.1324(b).
 
Additionally, as the
underlying facts are related to the original complaint, allowing plaintiffs to
file the amended complaint will increase the likelihood of the case being
resolved efficiently on the merits.
 
Requests to amend
Complaints are to be liberally considered and Defendants have rendered no
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. 
Additionally, the trial in this case has not yet been set, so there
would be no prejudice to Defendant if Plaintiff is allowed to amend her
Complaint at this time.   Furthermore, failure
to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence
that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
Accordingly, the motion for
leave to amend is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Melise Vartanians’
Motion for Leave to Amend came on regularly for
hearing on March 15, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE HER FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 10 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 