 Case Number:  24BBCV00051    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless
the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be
permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m.
on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and
argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no
notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Before the Court are
four separate motions brought by Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club
(Petitioner) to compel initial discovery responses from Matliouba Katsnelson and Irina Zverev (Respondents).  These motions to
compel relate to: (1) Form
Interrogatories, and (2) Petitioner’s Request for Production of Documents
(RFPD). 
 
The Court
received no opposition to the motions to compel. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Interrogatories:
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
response and for a monetary sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served.  The moving party need only show that a set of
interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party and the time to
respond has expired without a response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
Request to Produce Documents:
 
Where there has been no timely response to a document’s demand,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  A party’s failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).) 
Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from
waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is
no deadline for a motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On July 12, 2023, Petitioner propounded its Responses
to the Form Interrogatories and RFPD via email on Respondents’ counsel Sergei
N. Gladkov. (Trafton Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Responses to these requests were
due on August 15, 2023. (Trafton Decl. ¶ 4.) Counsel for Petitioner sent a
meet and confer letter regarding the discovery on September 7, 2023, but
received no response. (Trafton Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. B.) Subsequent meet and
confer letters sent on October 2 and October 31 were also ignored. (Trafton Decl.
¶¶ 7-11, Exhs. C-D.) Petitioner remains without responses to the discovery
as of the filing of these motions. (Trafton Decl. ¶ 11.) The Court notes
that the facts of service regarding discovery are identical for both Respondents.

 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s unopposed
motions to compel initial response to Form Interrogatories and RFPD are
GRANTED.   
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the
parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or
the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form
will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into
the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club’s Motions to Compel Discovery Responses came on regularly for
hearing on March 15, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PETITIONER’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS ARE GRANTED. 
 
RESPONDENTS MUST PRODUCE RESPONSES WITHIN 30
DAYS.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PETITIONER TO GIVE NOTICE