 Case Number:  24BBCP00030    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  A The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless
the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be
permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m.
on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and
argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no
notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jason Craig
(Petitioner) seeks an order from the Court compelling Michael D. Phillbeck
(Respondent) to arbitrate claims between them. Petitioner states that there are
claims regarding his purchase of property from Respondent that must be
arbitrated per the purchase agreement. Respondent has not opposed this petition.

  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc.
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, [quotations omitted].) Accordingly, “when
presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to
determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id.)
A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel
specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) 
 
As with
any other specific performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an
arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite
to enable the court to know what it is to enforce.” (Id. [internal
citations omitted].) “Only the valid and binding agreement of the parties,
including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered
specifically performed.” (Id.) An arbitration agreement “must be so
interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it
existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.” (Civ. Code § 1636.) 
 
The
language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and
explicit. (Civ. Code § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code § 1654.)
 
The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would
then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (See Id.) “In
these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as
oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.)
 
Further,
C.C.P. § 1281.2 requires a party seeking to compel arbitration “to plead and
prove a prior demand for arbitration under the parties' arbitration agreement
and a refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-41 [“...if proof of a demand and refusal to
arbitrate under the agreement is a necessary prerequisite to a petition to
compel arbitration under section 1281.2, the failure to prove such demand and
refusal is a failure to state a cause of action—a fundamental error that
permits us to review the issue despite a party's failure to raise the theory in
the trial court.”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Failure to Serve Notice 
 
The Court notes that no proof
of service has been submitted regarding the Notice of Petition. C.C.P. §
1290.4. states “A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and
place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is
based shall be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for
the service of such petition and notice.” 
Further, the Petitioner was ordered to give notice of this hearing and
file proof of service thereof via notice by this court on January 31, 2024.
Petitioner having failed to file proof of service of this petition, the Court
DENIES the petition without prejudice. 
 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jason Craig’s Petition
to Enforce Arbitration came on regularly for hearing
on March 15, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO ENFORCE ARBITRATION IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE: SERVICE OF NOTICE FOR APRIL
12, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 