  Case Number:  22STCP01062    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   January
8, 2025                                   
 
CASE NAME:           Vasquez,
et al. v. Farmers Insurance Company
 
CASE NO.:                22STCP01062

 
PETITION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:   Petitioners, Mirian Vasquez and Carmen Vasquez
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of January
3, 2025
 
REQUESTED RELIEF:
 
1.     
An
Order compelling arbitration of the uninsured/underinsured motorist claim
between Petitioners and Respondent;
2.     
An
Award of costs of this action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.     
Petition to Compel Arbitration is DENIED
without prejudice.
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
 
On March 23, 2022, Petitioners
Mirian Vasquez and Carmen Vasquez filed a petition to compel arbitration
against Respondent Farmers Insurance Company. 
 
Petitioners contend they are
insured under an automobile insurance policy provided by Respondent, which
includes coverage for damages caused by an under-insured motorist. Petitioners allege
they were involved in an automobile accident on January 20, 2021. Petitioners further
allege that their claim on their insurance policy has been resolved for the
policy limits and seek damages in excess of the policy limits from Respondent. 
 
On April 29, 2022, Respondent filed
a Response to the Petition.
 
On July 6, 2022, the court DENIED
the Petition without prejudice.
 
On September 3, 2024, Petitioners
filed the instant Petition to Compel Uninsured/Underinsured Motorist
Arbitration. As of January 3, 2025, the court has not received any response.
 
LEGAL STANDARD:
Recovery
by an insured on an uninsured or underinsured motorist provision (UIM/UM) of an
automobile insurance policy is governed by Insurance Code section 11580.2. If
the insured and insurer cannot agree as to whether the insured is entitled to
benefits under the UIM/UM provision or how much the insured is entitled to, the
matter must be decided by arbitration conducted by a single neutral arbitrator.
(Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f).) The discovery methods provided in Title 4 of
the Code of Civil Procedure (the Civil Discovery Act) are available to either
party, both before and after the commencement of arbitration, and the Superior
Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate discovery disputes. (Ins. Code, §§
11580.2, subds. (f) & (f)(2).) 
 
“No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under any
policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this section unless one of
the following actions have been taken within two years from the date of the
accident:
(A) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against
the uninsured motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(B) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has been concluded.
(C) The insured has formally instituted arbitration proceedings by
notifying the insurer in writing sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Notice shall be sent to the insurer or to the agent for process
designated by the insurer filed with the department.” 
(Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (i).) 
 
“Any demand or petition for arbitration shall contain a
declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating whether (i) the insured has a
workers’ compensation claim; (ii) the claim has proceeded to findings and award
or settlement on all issues reasonably contemplated to be determined in that
claim; and (iii) if not, what reasons amounting to good cause are grounds for
the arbitration to proceed immediately.” (Ins. Code § 11580.2, subd. (f).)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists . . .”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)
 
“[A]n insured’s cause of action against an insurance
company to compel arbitration or uninsured motorist benefits does not accrue,
and the statute of limitations does not begin to run, until the insurance
company refuses to arbitrate.” (Allstate
Ins. Co. v. Gonzalez (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 783, 789 [quoting Spear v. Cal. State Auto. Assn. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1035, 1043].)
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Petitioners
contend the court should compel arbitration because they have an
uninsured/underinsured motorist policy with respondent, they demanded
settlement related to this claim, and Respondent refused to arbitrate. (Helpern
Dec. ¶¶ 2, 3, 5, 6.) Petitioners further contend that there is no workers’
compensation claim. (Helpern Dec. ¶ 4.) 
 
A petition to compel
arbitration of an uninsured/underinsured motorist claim on an automobile
insurance policy is a petition to compel arbitration made pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (CCP) section 1281.2. (See Gordon
v. G.R.O.U.P., Inc. (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 998, 1005 [noting that
arbitration of a claim on an uninsured motorist policy may be compelled to
arbitration and citing Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2].) As such, the
court must make a finding that there is a written agreement to arbitrate and
that a party to the agreement has refused to do so. (CCP § 1281.2.) Disputes on
claims like Petitioners’ are required by law to be arbitrated, but the court
must still make a finding that Respondent has refused to arbitrate the dispute
in order to grant a petition to compel arbitration. Here, while Petitioners
provide evidence that Respondent denied the claim (Helpern Decl., Exhibit B),
there is no evidence that Respondent refused to arbitrate. In fact, there is no
evidence that Petitioners demanded arbitration. (Helpern Decl., Exhibit A). Rather,
the attached exhibit only evidences a demand for settlement.
 
Accordingly, the court
DENIES the Petition to Compel Arbitration without prejudice.[1]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
For the foregoing reasons, the court
decides the pending motion as follows:
 
1.     
Petition to Compel Arbitration is DENIED
without prejudice.
Moving party to give notice.

 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 8,
2025                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


