  Case Number:  23SMCV05964    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Ohlaug v. Lyft,
Inc., Case No. 23SMCV05964 
Hearing Date: April
24, 2024
Defendant Lyft’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Plaintiff Ohlaug alleges
his friend used the Lyft app to get a ride. Defendant Doe Driver exited the
vehicle and assaulted plaintiff, who sues Lyft and Doe Driver. Lyft demurs to
all causes of action.
 
Defendant Lyft’s request
for judicial notice of the complaint is GRANTED, as it is a court document
under Evidence Code 452(d). The court does admit the document for its truth.
 
Negligence 
To state a claim for negligence, one must
allege (1) duty, (2) breach, and (3) injuries. See, e.g., CACI 400; McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.
Lyft asserts plaintiff does
not sufficiently allege duty because plaintiff was neither a user of the Lyft
platform nor a passenger. The complaint alleges Lyft owed a duty to act because
it provided transportation services to those using its app. Complaint, para.
19. Plaintiff’s friend submitted a request for a ride through the Lyft app for
plaintiff. Complaint, para. 14. Plaintiff was an intended user of the ride. Plaintiff
alleges Lyft was on notice of drivers’ misbehavior due to passenger complaints,
police investigations surrounding drivers who were acting within their capacity
as Lyft drivers, and numerous civil suits alleging harassment and assault of
Lyft passengers. Complaint, para 24. 
Lyft argues plaintiff does
not identify steps Lyft should have taken or provide a factual basis to support
allegations that Lyft’s business practices correlate to any breach. Lyft notes
plaintiff concedes he had no relationship with Lyft. Lyft argues plaintiff’s
conclusory allegations fail to plead causation. 
Plaintiff contends Lyft’s
breach in not vetting its drivers caused his assault and battery, causing
physical and psychological harm. For pleading purposes, this is sufficient. See
Complaint, paras. 28-29. OVERRULED.
Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention 
An employer may be
liable to a third person for the employer's negligence in hiring or retaining
an employee if the third person can show (1) the employee is incompetent or
unfit, (2) the employer had reason to believe the undue risk of harm would
exist because of the employment, and (3) the harm occurs. Federico v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 1207, 1213-14. 
 
Lyft contends plaintiff
has not established Doe Driver had a propensity for violence or that Lyft had
actual knowledge of this. 
 
The complaint
alleges the hiring process was mainly automated, and Lyft failed to interview,
check references, provide training, or advise the driver of any anti-harassment
or anti-assault policies. Complaint, paras. 34-36. For pleading purposes, this
is sufficient. OVERRULED.
 
Common Carrier 
A common carrier
offers to the public to carry persons. Civ. Code sec. 2168. Per Civil Code
section 2100 a common carrier must use utmost care and diligence to ensure
their safe carriage. 
 
Lyft does not
dispute it is a common carrier but contends the cause of action fails because
the common carrier’s special duty does not apply to an individual awaiting
transportation. However, the events described in the complaint allege plaintiff’s
assault occurred when the driver arrived to pick up plaintiff. Complaint, para
14. The complaint alleges the driver accepted plaintiff’s friend’s Lyft request,
so the driver’s arrival marked the beginning of the transportation service. For
purposes of pleadings, this is sufficient. OVERRULED. 
 
Vicarious
Liability for the Assault and Battery Claim 
A principal may be
vicariously liable for injury committed by an act of its agent where (1) the
principal directly
authorizes the act to be committed, (2) the agent commits the act in the scope
of their agency and in performing service on behalf of the principal, or (3)
the principal ratifies its agent's conduct after the fact by electing to adopt
the agent's conduct. Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 953, 969. 
 
Lyft argues under
California law, there is no vicarious liability for personal tortious and
criminal acts. Lyft argues the driver’s actions were outside the scope of the
alleged employment, as the actions were several steps removed from the driver’s
task of transporting riders utilizing the Lyft platform. The complaint alleges
the driver parked his vehicle after arriving to pick up plaintiff and his
friends, exited the vehicle and approached plaintiff prior to the assault. Complaint,
para. 14. Moreover, the dispute over the scope of employment is unsuitable for
a demurrer. On demurrer, the court must accept as true all the allegations in the
complaint. E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. OVERRULED.