 Case Number:  23AHCV01364    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly causes of action.
 
On
June 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit against Honda alleging breach of statutory
obligations under the Song-Beverly Act.  Plaintiff
purchased the subject vehicle, a 2019 Honda Odyssey, from an allegedly authorized
Honda dealership.  The complaint alleges
Honda issued warranties for the vehicle—the warranty was not issued by the
dealership.  Defendant was unable to
conform Plaintiff’s vehicle to the express warranty after a reasonable number
of repair attempts. Thus, Plaintiff seeks remedies under the Act.
 
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Honda’s summary judgment motion relies heavily on
the Court of Appeal’s decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209, in which the Fourth District Court of Appeal held that the
plaintiff could not bring a claim under the Song-Beverly Act (“the Act”) for
breach of express warranty where the subject vehicle had been purchased used
with a portion of the original manufacturer’s warranty left.  (Id. at 219-225.)  Honda points out that Plaintiff purchased a
used 2019 Odyssey from Sierra Honda of Monrovia (SSUMF 1) (which is a Honda dealership
(Sierra Honda Decl., ¶ 2)), that the car had about 39,986 miles on the odometer
(SSUMF 3), and that Plaintiff purchased an extended service contract (SSUMF 4).

 
Honda concludes that the subject vehicle was not a “new
motor vehicle” for the purposes of the Act, and as a result he cannot prevail
on his three claims for violation of the Act: breach of express warranty (first
cause of action), breach of implied warranty (second cause of action), and
violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(b), where a defendant fails to commence
the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service or repair
the vehicle so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days (third
cause of action).
 
In opposition, Plaintiff points out that this year, the
Court of Appeal in Stiles v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 913, disagreed with the interpretation of “new motor vehicle”
espoused in Rodriguez.  In doing
so, the Second District also affirmed almost thirty years of precedent
established in Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 112, which held that a used vehicle could be considered a “new
motor vehicle” under the Act if it was sold with a balance remaining on the
manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty.  (Id., at p. 123.)
 
Thus, there is a split of authority regarding the key issue
raised by Honda’s motion for summary judgment, namely whether Plaintiff can
properly state a claim under the Act for breach of express warranty where she
bought a used vehicle with a portion of the manufacturer’s warranty left.  The California Supreme Court accepted review
of Rodriguez in 2022, and it recently accepted review of the Stiles
decision as well.  (Rodriguez v. FCA
US (Cal. 2022) 512 P.3d 654, 295 Cal.Rptr.3d 351; Stiles v. Kia Motors
America (Cal. 2024) 551 P.3d 1123, 323 Cal.Rptr.3d 126.) 
 
According to Plaintiff’s counsel, the Supreme Court heard
oral argument in Rodriguez on September 4, 2024.  Counsel expects the Supreme Court to issue its
decision in that case within 90 days, i.e., December 3, 2024.  Therefore, Plaintiff requests that this Court
stay the present action pending the Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez.

 
In reply, defense counsel objects to the opposition’s
request for a stay, and continues to rely on Rodriguez while arguing
that Plaintiff’s reliance on (1) Jensen is misconstrued and (2) Stiles
is unwarranted. 
 
Both Rodriguez
and Stiles are persuasive authority only—pending review by the
California Supreme Court.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 8.1115(e)(1) [“Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court’s
opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published
opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential
effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.  Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion
must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme
Court.”].) 

Based on the holding
in Stiles, which this Court is inclined to follow given that it stems
from the Second Appellate District, the definition of “new motor vehicle” under
the Act includes used cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer’s
new motor vehicle warranty.  (See Stiles,
supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 915; see also Jensen v. BMW of North
America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 123 [holding the same].)  Plaintiff may, therefore, proceed with a claim
under the Act if he purchased the subject vehicle with a balance remaining on
the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty.  As such, Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant
are not excluded from his consumer rights under the Act merely because the vehicle
was purchased from used, or not “new”. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is denied.