  Case Number:  20STCV42104    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 6, 2024                       VERDICT:
May 30, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ozelia Harris v. Pomona Unified School
District, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV42104            
 
MOTION
FOR PERMANENT INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ozelia Harris
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Pomona
Unified School District and Rebecca Norwood
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment
discrimination that was filed on November 3, 2020. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants engaged in retaliation and harassment against her on the basis of
her use of medical leave and/or her perceived disability. 
 
Plaintiff moves for a permanent
injunction. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for a Permanent Injunction is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves for a permanent injunction compelling Defendant Pomona Unified School
District to expunge Defendant Norwood’s October 6, 2020 written warning from
Plaintiff’s personnel file. 
 
Legal Basis for Permanent Injunction
 
Permanent injunctions are governed
by Code of Civil Procedure section 526, which authorizes such relief, as
relevant here:
 
(1) When it appears by the complaint
that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually;
 
. . .
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief. 
 
(5) Where it would be extremely
difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which would afford adequate
relief. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §526(a).)
 
Outcome of Jury Trial
 
            On May 15,
2024, the Court commenced a jury trial in this action. (May 15, 2024.) On May
30, 2024, the jury determined that, while Plaintiff had engaged in protected
activity in taking medical leave and submitting a Uniform Complaint against
Defendant Norwood, Defendant Norwood did not engage in conduct that materially
and adversely affected the terms and conditions of Plaintiff’s employment. (Special
Verdict Nos. 1-2.) The jury also concluded that Plaintiff was not subjected to
harassing conduct based on a perceived disability. (No. 6.) Upon entry of this
conclusive verdict in Defendants’ favor, the Court heard from Plaintiff’s
counsel regarding an order to rescind the letter of warning that is the subject
of this motion and ordered that any such motion was to be served and filed on
or before June 14, 2024. (May 30, 2024 Minute Order.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
seeks a permanent injunction compelling Defendant Pomona Unified School
District to expunge Defendant Norwood’s October 6, 2020 written warning from
Plaintiff’s personnel file. 
 
            Plaintiff
originally submitted this motion as a two-page notice of motion without
supporting papers. (See Defendant’s Exh. 1. [June 14, 2024 Notice of Motion].) None
of the supporting papers were included in that original filing. A motion must
include or be simultaneously accompanied by a memorandum of points and
authorities and any supporting materials. (See Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.112.)
Plaintiff served and filed an Amended Motion which corrected this deficiency on
July 16, 2024. According to Plaintiff’s counsel, the remainder of the materials
were not served or filed “due to an error,” which was not discovered until July
10, 2024. (Declaration of Monique Harris ISO Amended Motion ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel does not explain why this “error” went uncorrected for a full month. Further,
Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities is 38 pages in length,
discounting the tables of contents, authorities, and exhibits. The maximum
length for a memorandum of points and authorities other than on a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is 15 pages. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(d).) Although
a party may seek leave to file an overlength brief, Plaintiff did not do so.
(See Rule 3.1113(e).) Unauthorized overlength briefs are to be considered in
the same manner as a late-filed paper, and the Court may, in its discretion,
refuse to consider late-filed papers. (Rules 3.1113(g); 3.1300(d).) The Court
would therefore be within its authority to refuse to consider the motion in its
entirety, or to refuse to consider any portion of the motion beyond page 24. 
 
            Moreover,
even if the Court were to overlook the procedural violations, Plaintiff’s
motion entirely lacks merit. Plaintiff asserts that she is entitled to
injunctive relief because the written warning constituted an adverse employment
action and harassment. As Defendants observe in opposition, the jury determined
otherwise on May 30, 2024. (See Special Verdict Nos. 2, 6.) That verdict may
not be challenged in this Court except by a motion for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict or a motion for new trial—neither of which have been brought. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 657, 659.) Although Plaintiff cites Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, to argue that she may seek injunctive relief
notwithstanding the jury’s verdict, that opinion offers no support. Harris
v. City of Santa Monica states that when a plaintiff establishes that an
adverse employment action was motivated by discrimination, but an employer
demonstrates that the same decision would have been made regardless, that
showing does not preclude injunctive relief. (Harris v. City of Santa Monica,
supra, 56 Cal.4th at 241.) Here, however, Plaintiff did not demonstrate an
adverse employment action occurred, nor that she was subjected to harassment. 
 
            In sum,
Plaintiff has not shown she is entitled to injunctive relief because the jury’s
verdict conclusively establishes that she was not subjected to an adverse
employment action or harassment. That verdict cannot be challenged by a motion
of this nature. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Permanent Injunction is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 6, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.