 Case Number:  23STCV00075    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 6, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: October 29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Melissa Hansen, et al., v. Jodie
Votava-Smith, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV00075            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendant Shilpa Shah, M.D.; (2) Defendant Lara
Nelson, M.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2)Plaintiffs
Melissa and Collier Hansen, individually and as successors in interest to Maia
Hansen. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/03/23: Complaint filed.
·        
03/20/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wrongful death and medical malpractice action. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants acted below the standard of care in treating their
newborn child’s cardiovascular syndromes.
 
Defendants Shilpa Shah and Lara
Nelson move for summary judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Shah’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Nelson’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Shah’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Defendant Shilpa Shah moves for
summary judgment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of the First Amended Complaint in
this action. Plaintiffs’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(d) (court records). 
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
raises evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement and to the
supporting declaration of Dr. Pushpa Shivaram. The Court rules on these
objections as follows:
 
Objection No. 1: OVERRULED. Defendant
does not specify what facts are referenced in the papers and not in Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement in this objection. Moreover, the specific responses which
Defendant challenges with subsequent objections Nos. 2 through 7 are not
material to the Court’s ruling. 
 
The Court therefore declines to
rule on Objections 2 through 7 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(q).
 
Objection Nos. 8-29: OVERRULED.
The Court is not persuaded that Dr. Shivaram is unqualified to testify to the
care and treatment of infants such as Maia Hansen. While it is true that qualifications
“in one field vaguely related to another” are not sufficient, (see California
Shoppers, Inc. v. Royal Globe Ins. Co. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 1, 66-67) both
sides have presented testimony from board certified pediatric cardiologists
concerning the conduct of Defendants. To that extent, the expert declarations
are equal. The Court also does not accept Defendant’s assertions that Dr.
Shivaram’s evaluation is without foundation, speculative, or unreliable because
she did not review deposition testimony. The declaration plainly states that it
is based on Melissa’s prenatal and Maia’s post-natal medical records and describes
the specific records being referenced, i.e., the same records which Defendant
produced in support of her motion. (See Defendant’s Exhs. E-G.) Nor does the
Court interpret Dr. Shivaram’s expert opinion as failing to reach a “reasonable
medical probability.” 
 
Professional Negligence
 
            Defendant
Shah moves for summary judgment on the grounds that she cannot be liable under
a theory of professional negligence because she complied with the standard of
care during her treatment of the decedent and did not cause or contribute to
the alleged injuries. 
 
Plaintiffs assert a claim for
wrongful death due to professional negligence under the first cause of action
and a survivorship claim under the same theory in the third cause of action.
(FAC ¶¶ 52-62; 74-77.) The elements of
a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) In a medical negligence action,
the standard of care is a matter that must be established by expert testimony.
(See Howard v. Owens Corning (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 621, 632-33.) The
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury is similarly a
matter of expert testimony, and that testimony must establish that the injury
was more likely than not the result of medical negligence. (Jones v.
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)
 
            The First
Amended Complaint alleges that the doctor Defendants failed to adhere to the
standard of care in treating the infant decedent Maia Hansen by (1) failing “to
deem Maia an emergent ENCI level four case after discovering pulmonary vein
flow reversal on her fetal echocardiogram on August 31, 2021” (FAC ¶ 56); (2)
failing to instruct Plaintiffs to deliver at the closest available hospital,
rather than Huntington Memorial Hospital  “to facilitate immediate treatment for
suspected atrial restriction,” (Id.) and (3) failing “to act on the
clear and demonstrated need to perform a balloon atrial septostomy prior to the
Norwood procedure after Maia’s first postnatal echocardiogram.” (Id.) Plaintiffs
allege that this failure was a direct cause of Maia’s death. (FAC ¶ 60.) 
 
            In support
of her contention that she complied with the standard of care, Dr. Shah offers
the expert testimony of Dr. Nancy Halnon, a board-certified pediatrician and
pediatric cardiologist licensed to practice medicine in California. (Declaration
of Nancy Halnon ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-3.) Dr. Halnon testifies that, based on her
review of the medical records and her own expertise, Dr. Shah complied with the
standard of care in providing treatment. (Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Fact Nos. 40-41.) Dr. Halnon testifies that the decision regarding
interventional procedures such as a balloon atrial septostomy did not rest with
Dr. Shah (SSUMF No. 42) and that, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, it was appropriate for the cardiac team to consider a balloon
atrial septostomy and ultimately not to perform the procedure. (Nos. 43-45.) Based
on her review of the records and her own expertise, Dr. Halnon is also of the
opinion, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that no act or omission
by Dr. Shah caused Plaintiffs injuries and, even if the balloon atrial
septostomy had been performed, Maia would have had the same complications after
the performance of the Norwood procedure. (SSUMF Nos. 46-47.) Defendant has
offered competent expert testimony establishing that she acted within the
standard of care and did not cause Plaintiffs’ injuries to a reasonable degree
of medical probability and, therefore, has met her burden to demonstrate that
Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claims on this basis. The burden now shifts
to Plaintiffs to offer competent evidence establishing a triable issue of fact
with respect to these arguments. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs put forward contrary expert testimony by Dr. Pushpa
Shivaram, a board-certified pediatrician and specialist in pediatric
cardiovascular disease licensed to practice medicine by the State of Georgia.
(Declaration of Pushpa Shivaram ISO Opp. ¶¶ 1-2.) Dr. Shivaram opines, based
upon her review of the medical records and her own expertise, that the
physicians’ treatment of Maia fell below the standard of care and directly led
to Maia’s death. (Separate Statement of Disputed Fact Nos. 41-47; Shivaram
Decl. ¶ 7.) Dr. Shivaram testifies that Maia should have been delivered in a
specialized labor and delivery unit, should have been designated ENCI category
4 during her prenatal care, and should have had a balloon atrial septostomy
performed immediately after birth. (SSDF Nos. 41-47; Shivaram Decl. ¶ 8.) Dr.
Shivaram contends that Maia’s treating physicians should have recognized the
need for emergent care and the balloon atrial septostomy on October 5 and 6,
2021. (SSDF Nos. 41-47; Shivaram Decl. ¶ 9.) Critically, Dr. Shivaram states
that the critical care physicians, which include Dr. Shah, should have and
raised the severity of Maia’s condition and the need for that procedure with
the cardiology team but failed to do so. (Id.) Dr. Shivaram opines, to a
reasonable degree of medical certainty,” that these failures and the delay in
providing proper emergent care they engendered “led to Maia’s death.”  (Id., ¶ 10.) 
By offering this contrary testimony, Plaintiffs have demonstrated the
existence of a triable issue of fact regarding Dr. Shah’s adherence to the
standard of care and whether her conduct caused Plaintiffs’ injury. 
 
            As
Plaintiffs have established a triable issue of fact as to whether Dr. Shah
breached the standard of care and caused the death of the decedent, Defendant is
not entitled to summary judgment on this basis. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment on the alternative theory that Plaintiffs’ claims
are barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
            Claims for
wrongful death against a healthcare provider are governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.5, which states, in relevant part:
 
In an action for injury or death
against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional
negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 340.5.) For the purposes of this statute
as it applies to wrongful death claims, “injury” means both “the death of [the]
decedent and its negligent cause.” (Larcher v. Wanless (1976) 18
Cal.3d 656, 657-58 [emphasis added].) Defendant argues that the discovery
provision of section 340.5 required Plaintiffs to assert their claims against
her within one year of the death of Maia on October 25, 2021. As the Court
stated in its ruling on Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings on
November 16, 2023, Defendant misconstrues the holding of Larcher by
making this argument. (See November 16, 2023 Ruling on Matter Taken Under
Submission.) As the Court stated then:
 
[t]he reality is
that Larcher clarified section 340.5’s references to “injury” in the
one-year discovery clause as encompassing wrongful death claims rather than
excluding them. (Larcher, supra, 18 Cal.3d at 658-69.) In so
holding, the California Supreme Court stated that, as applied to wrongful death
actions, the word “injury” “must be read to refer to the wrongfully caused
death of the plaintiff’s decedent.” (Id at 659 [emphasis added].)
Put differently, a plaintiff in a wrongful death action against a healthcare
provider has one year to file suit “measured from the date on which they
discovered or should have discovered their “injury” in the form of the death of
their decedent and its negligent cause,” (Id. at 657-58 [emphasis
added]), so long as the suit is filed within three years of the death of the
decedent.
 
(November 16 2023 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission
p.3.) 
 
            Although
Defendant misstated the law in framing the issue, Defendant’s factual
contention—reflecting the proper statement of the law—is that Plaintiffs were
aware of or suspected wrongdoing during Maia’s treatment. Defendant states that
Plaintiff Melissa Hansen testified at her deposition that Dr. Votava-Smith had stated
that a ventricular septal defect (VSD) was seen on Maia’s fetal echocardiogram
and that this condition, while normally not desirable, would be of assistance
in Maia’s situation. (SSUMF Nos. 31-32.) The evidence shows, however, that
Plaintiffs learned on October 6, 2021 that the VSD was not present. (SSUMF No.
30.) Defendant contends that Mrs. Hansen requested that Dr. Votava-Smith not
visit her during Maia’s admission because of the absent VSD, but that assertion
is not clearly supported by the deposition testimony to which Defendant cites.
(SSUMF No. 31, Defendant’s Exh. H pp. MHANSEN028-029.) When asked if her
request not to be visited by Dr. Votava-Smith was because of her failure to
diagnose the lack of VSD, Plaintiff testified “I more so did not want to be
visited by [Dr. Votava-Smith] again due to the comment she made about my
daughter’s head.” (Id.) Defendant also contends that Plaintiffs
testified at their depositions that multiple healthcare providers stated that
Maia’s post-operative complications were caused by Maia’s poor condition prior
to the Norwood procedure, to which the absent VSD was a contributing factor.
(SSUMF No. 34.) 
 
Despite the breadth of this
evidence presented by Defendant, none of the testimony or records cited
directly states that Plaintiffs suspected wrongdoing by any party in October
2021, nor does it support an inference of that suspicion when construed in the
light most favorable to the Plaintiffs. Defendant’s assertion that “it is
clear” that Plaintiffs suspected wrongdoing does not make it so. In particular,
Plaintiffs’ request for Maia’s medical records on November 16, 2021 to help
them “understand why [Maia] died during her recovery” does not support an
inference that Plaintiffs suspected wrongdoing under the favorable construction
required on this motion. (SSUMF No. 28.) A bulk citation to the entirety of
Plaintiffs’ deposition testimony and responses to requests for production, as
offered by Defendant (see SSUMF No. 29), does not constitute evidence to the
contrary. 
 
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs were aware that the statute of limitations would expire on October
25, 2022, one year after Maia’s death, and that it was for that reason that
they sent several letters of intent to sue on October 3, 2022. (SSUMF No. 35.)
Once again, Defendant misstates the evidence. Plaintiffs testified that they
were aware of a possible reading of the statute of limitations which would
require them to present their claims by October 25, 2022, not that they were
aware that their claims would certainly be barred if not presented by that
date. (Defendant’s Exh. H. p. MHANSEN044; Exh. I p. CHANSEN026.)  
 
Defendant has not presented
evidence which would establish, when construed in the light most favorable to
Plaintiffs, that they were aware of the wrongful cause of Maia Hansen’s death at
any point before October 3, 2022, when the first letters of intent to sue were
sent. Thus, Defendant has only offered evidence that Plaintiffs’ claims accrued
no later than October 3, 2022, and, therefore, that the statute of limitations
ran on October 3, 2023. Because Dr. Shah was substituted in for a Doe Defendant
on March 15, 2023, she has not offered evidence demonstrating that the claims
asserted against her are barred by the statute of limitations. Defendant is
therefore not entitled to summary judgment on this basis. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Shah’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Nelson’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Defendant
Lara Nelson moves for summary judgment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant
objects to portions of Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Material Fact
and to the supporting Declaration of Dr. Pushpa Shivaram in support of the
opposition. The Court rules on these objections as follows: 
 
Objection No. 1: OVERRULED.
Defendant does not specify what facts are referenced in the papers and not in
Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement in this objection. 
 
Objection No. 3: OVERRULED.
The Declaration of Dr. Shivaram is not deficient for the reasons stated below. 
 
Objection Nos. 4-6: OVERRULED.
The Court is not persuaded that Dr. Shivaram is unqualified to testify to the
care and treatment of infants such as Maia Hansen. While it is true that
qualifications “in one field vaguely related to another” are not sufficient
(see California Shoppers, Inc. v. Royal Globe Ins. Co. (1985) 175
Cal.App.3d 1, 66-67), the Court fails to see how a pediatric cardiologist is
not qualified to testify to the standard of care in this matter. The Court also
does not accept Defendant’s assertions that Dr. Shivaram’s evaluation is
without foundation, speculative, or unreliable because she did not review
deposition testimony. The declaration plainly states that it is based on
Melissa’s prenatal and Maia’s post-natal medical records and describes the
specific records being referenced, i.e., the same records which Defendant
produced in support of her motion. (See Defendant’s Exhs. E-G.) Nor does the
Court interpret Dr. Shivaram’s expert opinion as failing to reach a “reasonable
medical probability.” 
 
Objections Nos. 10-22: OVERRULED
for the reasons stated above in connection with Objections Nos. 4 through 6.
 
As the remainder of the material to which Defendant objects
is not relevant to the Court’s ruling, the Corut declines to rule on the
balance of Defendant’s objections pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(q).
 
Professional Negligence
 
            Defendant
Nelson moves for summary judgment on the grounds that she cannot be liable
under a theory of professional negligence because she complied with the
standard of care during her treatment of the decedent and did not cause or
contribute to the alleged injuries. 
 
Plaintiffs assert a claim for
wrongful death due to professional negligence under the first cause of action
and a survivorship claim under the same theory in the third cause of action.
(FAC ¶¶ 52-62; 74-77.) The elements of
a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) In a medical negligence action,
the standard of care is a matter that must be established by expert testimony.
(See Howard v. Owens Corning (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 621, 632-33.) The
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury is similarly a
matter of expert testimony, and that testimony must establish that the injury
was more likely than not the result of medical negligence. (Jones v.
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)
 
            The First
Amended Complaint alleges that the doctor Defendants failed to adhere to the
standard of care in treating the infant decedent Maia Hansen by (1) failing “to
deem Maia an emergent ENCI level four case after discovering pulmonary vein
flow reversal on her fetal echocardiogram on August 31, 2021” (FAC ¶ 56); (2)
failing to instruct Plaintiffs to deliver at the closest available hospital,
rather than Huntington Memorial Hospital 
“to facilitate immediate treatment for suspected atrial restriction,” (Id.)
and (3) failing “to act on the clear and demonstrated need to perform a balloon
atrial septostomy prior to the Norwood procedure after Maia’s first postnatal
echocardiogram.” (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that this failure was a direct
cause of Maia’s death. (FAC ¶ 60.) 
 
            In support
of her contention that she complied with the standard of care, Dr. Nelson
offers the expert testimony of Dr. William D. Rhine, a board-certified
pediatrician licensed to practice medicine in California, specializing in
neonatal and perinatal medicine. (Declaration of William D. Rhine ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-4.)
Dr. Rhine testifies that, based on his review of the medical records and his
own expertise, Dr. Nelson complied with the standard of care in providing
treatment. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact Nos. 20-22.) Dr. Rhine
testifies that the decision regarding interventional procedures such as a
balloon atrial septostomy did not rest with Dr. Nelson (SSUMF No. 11.)
Defendant has offered competent expert testimony establishing that she acted
within the standard of care and did not cause Plaintiffs’ injuries to a
reasonable degree of medical probability and, therefore, has met her burden to
demonstrate that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claims on this basis. The
burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to offer competent evidence establishing a
triable issue of fact with respect to these arguments. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs put forward contrary expert testimony by Dr. Pushpa
Shivaram, a board-certified pediatrician and specialist in pediatric
cardiovascular disease licensed to practice medicine by the State of Georgia.
(Declaration of Pushpa Shivaram ISO Opp. ¶¶ 1-2.) Dr. Shivaram opines, based
upon her review of the medical records and her own expertise, that the
physicians’ treatment of Maia fell below the standard of care and directly led
to Maia’s death. (Separate Statement of Disputed Fact Nos. 20-22; Shivaram
Decl. ¶ 7.) Dr. Shivaram testifies that Maia should have been delivered in a
specialized labor and delivery unit, should have been designated ENCI category
4 during her prenatal care, and should have had a balloon atrial septostomy
performed immediately after birth. (SSDF No. 11; Shivaram Decl. ¶ 8.) Dr.
Shivaram contends that Maia’s treating physicians should have recognized the
need for emergent care and the balloon atrial septostomy on October 5 and 6,
2021. (Id.; Shivaram Decl. ¶ 9.) Critically, Dr.
Shivaram states that the critical care physicians, which include Dr. Nelson,
should have and raised the severity of Maia’s condition and the need for that
procedure with the cardiology team but failed to do so. (Id.) Dr.
Shivaram opines, to a reasonable degree of medical certainty,” that these
failures and the delay in providing proper emergent care they engendered “led
to Maia’s death.”  (Id., ¶
10.)  By offering this contrary
testimony, Plaintiffs have demonstrated the existence of a triable issue of
fact regarding Dr. Nelson’s adherence to the standard of care and whether her
conduct caused Plaintiffs’ injury. 
 
            As
Plaintiffs have established a triable issue of fact as to whether Dr. Nelson breached
the standard of care and caused the death of the decedent, Defendant is not
entitled to summary judgment on this basis. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Nelson’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Shah’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Defendant Nelson’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 6, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later
than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be
copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative
ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By
submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be
present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt
the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in
whole or in part.