 Case Number:  23STCV11727    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
6, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Arturo Montoya-Bautista et al. v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11727            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Specially Appearing Defendant Spectrum Quartz LLC
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Arturo
Montoya-Bautista and Magdalena Balderas-Molina
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/24/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home
Centers, LLC
·        
12/29/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Jacobe
Enterprises, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging Plaintiff Montoya-Bautista developed
silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from Defendants’
stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher of stone
countertops.
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Spectrum
Quartz, LLC.  moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant Spectrum Quartz, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of the
Summons and Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Spectrum
Quartz, LLC moves to quash service of the summons and complaint lack of
personal jurisdiction. 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
 
Legal Standard
 
On a motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the moving party must first present some admissible evidence, such
as declarations or affidavits, to place the issue of minimum contacts before
the Court. (School Dist. of Oskaloosa County v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to personal jurisdiction or
its absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee
Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should
exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v.
Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court’s denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court’s
denial].) A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
Personal Jurisdiction
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant contends that the Court lacks both general and specific
personal jurisdiction over Spectrum Quartz LLC because the company does not
have a sufficient relationship with the State of California. 
 
1.     
General
Jurisdiction
 
Specially Appearing Defendant contends that the Court does
not have general jurisdiction over it. General jurisdiction exists when a
defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are
substantial, continuous, and systematic.  (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.)  “In such circumstances, it
is not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with
the defendant’s business relationship to the forum.”  (Id.) “The
standard for establishing general jurisdiction is ‘fairly high,’ [citation] and
requires that the defendant’s contacts be of the sort that approximate physical
presence.” (Elkman, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at 1315 (emphasis in
original).)  “Factors to be taken into consideration are whether the
defendant makes sales, solicits or engages in business in the state, serves the
state’s markets, designates an agent for service of process, holds a license,
or is incorporated there.” (Id.) A corporate defendant will be
considered “at home” in either its place of incorporation or its principal
place of business. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 137; Goodyear
Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 923-24.) 
 
Specially Appearing Defendant contends it has no contacts
with California whatsoever. In opposition, Plaintiffs assert that Specially
Appearing Defendant has a principal place of business in the State of
California. This assertion is based on a single webpage bearing the name “Spectrum
Quartz” which states only that there is an office at 1222 East Howell Avenue,
Suite B. Anaheim, CA 92805. (Declaration of Raphael Metzger ISO Opp. Exh. A.)
This exhibit does not state that Specially Appearing Defendant’s principal
place of business is at that location. Further, Specially Appearing Defendant’s
supporting declaration states that Spectrum Quartz is a fictitious business
name registered to Hirsch Glass Corporation, not Specially Appearing Defendant.
(Declaration of Helen Zhao ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs offer no other evidence of
any activities undertaken by Specially Appearing Defendant which would render
it “essentially at home” and subject to general jurisdiction. Plaintiffs have
thus failed to carry their burden to demonstrate general jurisdiction. 
 
2.     
Specific
Jurisdiction
 
“Where
general jurisdiction cannot be established, a court may assume specific
jurisdiction over a defendant in a particular case if the plaintiff shows the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; [i.e.]
the nonresident purposefully directed its activities at forum residents or
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections of local law. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235.)
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California: “(1) The nonresident
defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or
perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.” (Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th
Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) 
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant argues that it did not purposefully avail itself of the
privilege of conducting activities in California.  Purposeful availment in tort cases is based
upon “(1) intentional actions (2) expressly aimed at the forum state (3)
causing harm, the brunt of which is suffered –and which the defendant knows is
likely to be suffered –in the forum state.” (Jewish Defense Organization,
Inc., supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at 1057-58.)
 
Specially Appearing Defendant argues that it neither sells
nor distributes any of the products at issue in this case. According to the
Declaration of Helen Zhao, Spectrum Quartz LLC was formed in 2019 and has never
sold products of any kind. (Zhao Decl. ¶ 2.) Specially Appearing Defendant
claims that its only business interest is the leasing of real estate which it
owns to Elite Quartz Manufacturing LLC. (Zhao Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiffs offer
nothing save the unsupported assertion that Specially Appearing Defendant
engages in “significant business activity” in the State of California. To the
extent this conclusion is based on the above-referenced webpage, Plaintiffs
have not shown that the webpage listing a California address actually belongs
to this Defendant, rather than to another entity operating under a similar
fictitious business name. Nor have Plaintiffs produced evidence of any other
activity undertaken by Spectrum Quartz LLC. Plaintiffs have thus entirely
failed to carry their burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
is proper in this case. 
 
Although Plaintiffs request, in the alternative, that the
Court permit jurisdictional discovery on this issue, Plaintiffs do not explain
how such discovery is likely to lead to the production of at least some
evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction. (See In re Automobile Antitrust
Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) The Court therefore does
not find good cause to permit jurisdictional discovery. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Specially Appearing Defendant Spectrum Quartz, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of
the Summons and Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 6, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.