 Case Number:  23GDCV02117    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR
COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICT 
DEPARTMENT V 
 
 



¿¿CREDITORS ADJUSTMENT BUREAU, INC.¿¿,¿ 
 
¿¿Plaintiff¿, 
 
 
vs. 
 
 
¿¿AMERICAN GUARD SERVICES, INC.¿¿, et al.,¿ 
 
¿¿Defendants¿. 


Case No.: 


23GDCV02117 




 


 




Hearing Date: 


¿¿March 8, 2024¿ 




 


 




Time: 


¿¿8:30 a.m.¿ 




 


 




 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
 
DEFENDANTS’ S&S ENTITIES, LLC,
  VETS SECURING AMERICA, INC., S&S MANAGEMENT SERVICES, LLC, WORLDWIDE
  SOURCING GROUP, INCL, AND AMERICAN GUARD SERVICES, INC.’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION  
 



 
 
MOVING PARTIES:             (1) Defendant S&S Entities,
LLC 
(2) Defendant Vets
Securing America, Inc.  
(3) S&S
Management Services, LLC 
(4) Worldwide
Sourcing Group, Inc.  
(5) American Guard
Services, Inc.  
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)-(5) Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc. 
Motions to Compel Arbitration  
The court considered the moving papers and non-opposition papers. No
reply papers were filed in connection with the motions.  
 
BACKGROUND 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the following defendants: (1) American
Guard Services, Inc.; (2) Worldwide Sourcing Group, Inc.; (3) S&S
Management Services, LLC aka S&S Management Services LLC dba Professional
Building Maintenance also dba JC Construction Services; (4) S & S Entities,
LLC aka S & S Entities LLC; (5) 1125 190th LLC; (6) Vets Securing America,
Inc.; (7) Financing Debt, LLC aka Financing Debt, LLC; (8) United Stevedoring of
America, Inc. dba Hallmark Stevedoring Company; (9) Karim Karawia Aka Karim O
Karawia aka Karim Ousama Karawia; (10) Wael Mudawar aka Wael I Mudawar aka Wael
Ibraheim Mudawar; (11) Vescom Corporation; and (12) Does 1 through 10,
Inclusive (collectively, “Defendants”).  
The Complaint asserts two causes of action for (1) breach of contract and
(2) quantum meruit. Plaintiff alleges the following. Plaintiff’s assignor,
Bradley Gmelich & Wellerstein (the “Assignor”), is a law firm organized and
existing under California laws with a principal place of business in Glendale,
CA 91203. (Compl., ¶ 6.) “On or about January 17, 2019, Defendants retained
Plaintiff’s Assignor to provide legal services to Defendants. …. Thereafter,
Plaintiff’s Assignor rendered legal services to and on behalf of Defendants.”
(Comp., ¶ 12.) “Between January 17, 2019 and March 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s
Assignor billed Defendants for legal services rendered and for cost incurred in
representing Defendants for a total amount of $115,604.43.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) However,
Defendants have failed and refused to pay that amount. (Compl., ¶ 14.)
“Defendants’ refusal and failure to pay Plaintiff’s Assignor for said services
is a breach of the contract between Defendants and Plaintiff’s Assignor.”
(Comp., ¶ 15.) 
On December 26, 2023, Defendants S&S Entities, LLC, Vets Securing
America, Inc., S&S Management Services, LLC, Worldwide Sourcing Group,
Inc., American Guard Services, Inc. (collectively, the “Moving Defendants”)
filed the instant motions to compel Plaintiff’s claims to
arbitration.  
On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition, stating
it does not oppose the motions to compel arbitration.  
Defendants did not file any reply.  A Case Management Conference is
set for April 24, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner
and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
a.                  
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or 
b.                 
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
c.                  
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact . . . .”   
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  “If a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
DISCUSSION 
The Moving Defendants (represented by the same counsel) seek orders
compelling Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration pursuant to the arbitration
provision in the retainer agreement attached to the Complaint. (Motions, p.
3:5-9 [“Attached to Complaints recently filed by Plaintiff are arbitration
agreements signed by Plaintiff’s assignor. This Motion is expressly made based
upon the provisions of C.C.P. Section 1281.2 and 1281.4, and such other
applicable provisions of the California Code of Civil Procedure, based upon
such written binding arbitration agreements contained in Retainer Agreements
for legal work between the parties”].)  
The retainer agreement was entered between Bradley & Gmelich LLP
(Plaintiff’s alleged assignor), Moving Defendants, and other defendants.
(Compl., Exhibit 1 – a copy of the retainer agreement, p. 1.)  The
arbitration provision in the agreement states the following in relevant part:
“Any controversy between the parties regarding the construction, application or
performance of any services under this Agreement, and any claim arising out of
or relating to this Agreement or its breach, shall be submitted to binding
arbitration upon the written request of one party after the service of that
request on the other party. The parties shall use and be guided by Judicate
West in Los Angeles, who shall hear and determine the dispute, or another
agency mutually agreed upon.” (Compl., Exhibit 1, p. 5, Section
11.A.)  
Plaintiff states that it does not oppose Defendants’ motions to compel
arbitration, the court accordingly grants the motions as to the moving
defendants, and additionally orders this matter stayed as to those defendants
pending arbitration. 
The court notes that certain additional defendants in the case have not
been served, and others have been served but have neither filed a response to
the Complaint.  This order will not stay the matter as to those additional
defendants.  
Based on the foregoing, the motions to compel arbitration are granted.
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. and Defendants S&S Entities,
LLC, Vets Securing America, Inc., S&S Management Services, LLC, Worldwide
Sourcing Group, Inc., and American Guard Services, Inc. are to arbitrate their
dispute. The court orders this action stayed as to those parties pending
arbitration.  
Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 