  Case Number:  23TRCV04104    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  P MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIONRULINGThe Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palo Verdes’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. Plaintiff may remove the fence from their property and easement. Such removal will be at no cost to Defendants. Plaintiff is to post a bond in the amount of $10,000.BACKGROUNDOn December 11, 2023, the Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palos Verdes (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging three causes of action against George Cashman Jr., Cynthia C. Makin, and the GFC Administrative Trust (Defendants). The Complaint stemmed from an alleged breach of the “Declaration No. 150 of Establishment of Basic Protective Restrictions, Conditions, Covenants, Reservations, Liens, Charges and Certain Local Restrictions” (CCRs), when Plaintiff discovered that a fence extends beyond Plaintiff’s permitted easement in violation of the CCRs.The motion before the Court is Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palo Verdes’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion, and Cashman files a reply.DISCUSSIONJudicial NoticeUpon reply, Plaintiff requests that this Court take judicial notice of the following:1. The Los Angeles County Assessor’s Map No. 51; and2. A copy of Google Maps view of Lot 109’s location compared with Lot 127’s location.Pursuant to Evid. Code §452, judicial request is granted.Evidentiary ObjectionsUpon reply, Plaintiff also submits the evidentiary objections to the Declaration of George F. Cashman and the Declaration of Kenneth Styles. All objections are sustained.Legal StandardA trial court may grant a preliminary injunction upon a showing that (1) the party seeking the injunction is likely to prevail on the merits at trial, and (2) the interim harm to that party if an injunction is denied is greater than the interim harm the opposing party is likely to suffer if the injunction is issued. (Integrated Dynamic Solutions, Inc. v. VitaVet Labs, Inc. (2016) 6 al.App.5th 1178, 1183. Also see Civ. Proc. Code § 527(a).)AnalysisIn their moving papers, Plaintiff argues that they are (1) likely to prevail at trial on the merits because the CCRs confer authority on Plaintiff to interpret and enforce the restrictions ofthe CCRs with regard to violations of the same. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that (2) the harm that could be suffered by the community of Rolling Hills in the event of a wildfire far outweighs the harm Defendants would suffer by the removal of the fence. Defendants counter arguing that (1) they have not violated any relevant fire codes, and (2) Defendants possess title to Lot 127 and have either an equitable easement, prescriptive easement, implied easement or easement by adverse possession. As explained below, the Court disagrees and grants the preliminary injunction. Plaintiff is to post a bond as to the injunction amounting to the reasonable costs of rebuilding the fence in the case Defendants do not prevail on the merits.(1) Plaintiff is likely to prevail on the meritsPlaintiff alleges three causes of action against Defendants: (1) trespass, (2) breach of the CCRs, and (3) declaratory and injunctive relief. The CCRs operate as an agreement between the residents living in Rolling Hills who have agreed to them and the Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palos Verdes who enforces them. The allegation here with regard to the first and second causes of action is that the fence extends on to an easement owned by Plaintiff, therefore trespassing on Plaintiff’s land and breaching the CCRs by not removing their fence because Article I, Section 14 of the CCRs allows for its enforcement in this manner. Defendants argue that because they (a) possess title to Lot 127, and (b) have either equitable easement, implied easement, prescriptive easement, or easement by adverse possession, that Plaintiff is not likely to prevail on the merits. The Court disagrees.a) Defendants provide no evidence that they possess title to Lot 127Defendants provide no evidence that they own Lot 127, Defendants merely attempt to put the title in question. This attempt fails because Plaintiff has produced evidence that they in fact own Lot 127. (Declaration of Kirsten Raig, hereinafter, Raig Decl., Exh. H.)b) Defendants possess no easement nor title to the land at issueNext Defendants contend that they have either an equitable easement, implied easement, prescriptive easement, or easement by adverse possession, to the property where the fence lies, however, this is also inaccurate. The Court will take each in turn.Judicial creation of an equitable easement over a landowner's property is permissible provided that the trespasser shows that (a) her trespass was innocent rather than willful or negligent, (b) the public or the property owner will not be irreparably injured by the easement, and (c) the hardship to the trespasser from having to cease the trespass is greatly disproportionate tothe hardship caused the owner by the continuance of the encroachment; unless all three prerequisites are established, a court lacks the discretion to grant an equitable easement. (Ranch at the Falls LLC v. O’Neal (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 155, 183.) Defendants have failed to demonstrate any of these elements are applicable here.An easement will be implied when, at the time of conveyance of property, the following conditions exist: (1) the owner of property conveys or transfers a portion of that property to another, (2) the owner's prior existing use of the property was of a nature that the parties must have intended or believed that the use would continue, meaning that the existing use must either have been known to the grantor and the grantee, or have been so obviously and apparently permanent that the parties should have known of the use, and (3) the easement is reasonably necessary to the use and benefit of the quasi-dominant tenement. (Thorstrom v. Thorstrom (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1420.) Defendants have failed to demonstrate any of these elements are applicable here.Both an easement by prescription and adverse possession require the element of adversity. (see Hansen v. Sandridge Partners, L.P. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1032-1033.) Plaintiff notes that the fence was installed with Plaintiff’s permission. (Moving Papers, 5:26-28.) The Opposition Papers are silent on this point. Therefore, Defendants have failed to establish these theories as well and hold no easement to the land at issue.(2) The harm that could be suffered by Plaintiff outweighs the harm that could be suffered by DefendantThe main form of harm that Plaintiff argues is that because the community of Rolling Hills has been designated a “Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone”, the current placement of the fence could pose a danger in the event a wildfire were to occur, and the streets become congested with vehicles attempting to evacuate. (Moving Papers, 2:8-16.) Plaintiff urges the Court to consider a situation where the streets are filled with vehicles and horse trailers attempting to leave the area, while fire trucks and first responders attempt to enter the area. (Id.) Plaintiff argues that the current placement of the fence could exacerbate the issue.Defendants counter arguing they have abided by all fire statutes, codes, rules, and regulations. Although this may be true, the hazards wildfires may wreak on a community are well-documented. Even if the court discounts the probability of a wildfire within the community, the destructive force such a fire can bring require the court to presume significant harm would occur within such a situation. Further, there is no evidence that Plaintiff is claiming the need forprecautions as a veil for alternative motives. Because the harm of taking down the current fencing pales in comparison to the harm that could be caused if first responders are not able to provide emergency services in the event a fire occurs, the court finds the balance of harms inures to the Plaintiff’s benefit.Although Plaintiff has met their burden as to the first prong of being likely to prevail on the merits, a preliminary injunction is not a substitute for a final judgment. Therefore, Plaintiff is required to take the fence down at their own expense and place a bond in the amount of $10,000 to offset the potential expenses of replacing the fence.CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Plaintiff Rolling Hills Community Association of Rancho Palo Verdes’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. Plaintiff may remove the fence from their property and easement at no cost to Defendants. Plaintiff is to post a bond in the amount of $10,000 prior to beginning the fence removal.