  Case Number:  23STCV13276    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff John Gross’ Motions to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production and Form and Special Interrogatories from Defendant
Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC are GRANTED as to Special Interrogatories No. 38, 45, and 60, and Requests for Production No.
12, 37–72, and 82. Defendant is to
redact information personal identifying consumer information. The motions are
DENIED as to form interrogatories and the remaining requests for production.
 
Plaintiff John Gross’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Brandon
Sangster is GRANTED, and Sangster’s deposition and document production is
directed to take place on or before August 8, 2024. 
 
I.      
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
A party may make a
motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice”
if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer
declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Plaintiff John Gross
(Plaintiff) seeks to compel the deposition of Brandon Sangster, the Customer
Satisfaction Senior Technical Specialist for Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff’s notice of deposition, served on November
13, 2023, sought information concerning Defendant’s warranty policies and
procedures, the investigation into Plaintiff’s vehicle, and the production of
related documents. (Motion Exh. 1.) Defendant responded with objections on
November 20, 2023, based on overbreadth, privacy, burden, and privilege, and
noted that the deposition was scheduled on a date for which Defendant and the
witness were unavailable. (Motion Exh. 2.) Plaintiff on December 15, 2023, sent
a letter seeking alternative dates and contesting Defendant’s objections.
(Motion Exh. 3.) When Defendant did not respond, Plaintiff followed up by email
on December 27, 2023. (Motion Exh. 4.) Defendant responded that day by stating
that Sangster’s calendar “is quite filled” and that he “is also presently out
of the office,” and that Defendant was working on providing deposition dates as
“as soon as we secure one.” (Motion Exh. 5.) Plaintiff filed the present motion
on January 18, 2024. 
 
Defendant in
opposition argues that as of January 30, 2024, it notified Plaintiff that August
8, 2024, is Sangster’s earliest available date for deposition. (Opposition at
p. 1.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff did not adequate confer regarding
its objections to the deposition. (Opposition at p. 2.)
 
Good cause supports
the categories of examination and documents sought in the deposition notice, as
all such categories relate to the subject vehicle at issue in this litigation
and Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s warranty repairs. Contrary to Defendant’s
argument in opposition, Plaintiff attempted to confer with Defendant regarding
its objections to the notice, but Defendant failed to respond in any
substantive way, much as it does not defend its objections in opposition to
this motion. Thus Defendant may be properly directed to provide responses to
the document requests at issue. 
 
Plaintiff in reply
argues that Defendant’s proffered August 8 date is too far in the future, and
seeks an order compelling Sangster’s deposition within the next ten days.
(Reply at pp. 2–3.) The parties present little evidence concerning either
Sangster’s availability or the prejudice to be suffered by an August deposition
date. Trial in this matter is currently set for September 2025. 
 
The motion to compel
deposition is therefore GRANTED, with Sangster’s deposition to take place on or
before August 8, 2024.
 
II.               
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to
the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) If a
propounding party is not satisfied with the response served by a responding
party, the former may move the court to compel further interrogatory
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300;
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  The propounding party must demonstrate that the
responses were incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding party
asserted objections that are either without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)
“A propounding party may demand a responding
party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody or control.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct discovery by
propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under oath. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must respond to the
production demand either by complying, by representing that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by
answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the
responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and
interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories No. 12.1, 15.1, and 17.1,
Special Interrogatories No. 38, 45, and 60, and Requests for Production No. 10,
12, 24, 32, 37–73, 76, 77, and 82.
 
1.      Form Interrogatories
No further responses
are proper as to the Form Interrogatories, as Plaintiff has identified no
deficiencies in the responses. Indeed, it is unclear why the motion was
brought. Plaintiff contends, as to Interrogatory No. 12.1, that Defendant has
not identified the technicians who serviced the vehicle. (Separate Statement at
p. 3.) But Defendant identifies the technicians by name and technician number.
(Ibid.) As to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, Plaintiff contends that
Defendant has “neither provided one single fact nor identified any witnesses or
documents that supports its general denial or the bevy of affirmative defenses
that Defendant has asserted.” (Separate Statement at p. 8.) But again, the
response to the interrogatory sets forth facts, witnesses, and documents upon
which the general denial and affirmative defenses are based. (Motion Exh. 2.)
Plaintiff finally contends that a “simple look” at Defendant’s response to
Interrogatory No. 17.1 reveals its inadequacy, but Plaintiff does not elaborate,
and a simple look at the interrogatory response reveals descriptions of
responsive facts, witnesses, and documents, at times incorporating references
to earlier interrogatory responses.. (Separate Statement at pp. 13–14.)
Plaintiff in reply appears to argue that the problem with the response is
Defendant’s practice of grouping certain requests for admission together and
providing answers to more than one admission at a time, arguing that Defendant
“must separate out each request” but “did not separate out each request.”
(Reply at p. 4.) But Plaintiff identifies no authority requiring Defendant to
separate out each request if the responses to different requests would be the
same. Plaintiff is entitled to no relief on his form interrogatories.
 
2.      Special Interrogatories
Further responses are
required to Special Interrogatories No. 38, 45, and 60, however. Defendant
primarily objects that the interrogatories at issue exceeded the 35 permitted
by Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.030. However, Plaintiff supported the
interrogatories with a declaration of necessity as required under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2030.040, and Defendant did not object to the interrogatories on
the grounds that they exceeded the amount allowed. 
 
Moreover,
the interrogatories themselves are supported by good cause, Interrogatory No.
38 asked whether the written warranty provided to Plaintiff was a written
warranty under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, 15 U.S.C. § 301 et seq., which
was effectively a contention interrogatory permitted by Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2030.010, subd. (b). Defendant’s objection that such interrogatories seek
attorney work product has been rejected. (See Burke v. Superior Court of Sacramento County (1969) 71 Cal.2d
276, 285.) 
Defendant’s argument as to
Interrogatory No. 45 is also defective. Although Defendant responded only with
boilerplate objections, Defendant now contends that it cannot identify the
individual who made any decision on Plaintiff’s repurchase request because no
such request was ever made. (Opposition at pp. 8–9.) Such information ought to
have been included in Defendant’s interrogatory response, rather than the
opposition to the present motion. 
Defendant finally objects to
Interrogatory No. 60, which asks Defendant to describe the process by which a
technical service bulletin is recalled or superseded, on the grounds that the
subject matter goes beyond the bounds of this lemon-law dispute, and further,
that Defendant “is not involved in the process by which a technical bulletin is
recalled or superseded.” (Opposition at pp. 9–10.)
These arguments are
unpersuasive. As with Interrogatory No. 45, information concerning Defendant’s
role in the TSB process ought to have been put in the interrogatory, rather
than raised in opposition to a motion to compel further. Additionally, good cause
supports the interrogatory, as a lemon law plaintiff is not limited to
discovery concerning the subject vehicle at issue. may use evidence of
other vehicles to pursue their Song Beverly claims. To succeed on a claim
brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, the plaintiff bears the
burden of proving several elements, including nonconformity of a vehicle that
substantially impaired its use, value, or safety, presentation of a vehicle to
a manufacturer or authorized representative for repair, and failure to repair
the defect after a reasonable number of attempts. (Oregel v. Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (“Oregel”) (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) A buyer may be entitled to a civil penalty of up to
two times the actual damages upon a showing that the manufacturer willfully
failed to abide by any of its obligations under the Act. (Civ. Code § 1794,
subd. (c).) Evidence that a defendant “adopted internal policies that erected
hidden obstacles to the ability of an unwary consumer to obtain redress under
the Act,” is relevant to a determination of “willfulness” in relation to
prayers for the civil penalty. (Oregel,
supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1105.)
 
Case authority supports this
position. The court in Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 993–994, held that Bentley’s
failure to turn over customer complaints regarding defects on other Bentleys to
support the plaintiff’s claim under the Song-Beverly Act was an abuse of
discovery so flagrant that the trial court abused its discretion by not imposing terminating sanctions.
Other cases have embraced an evidentiary rule similar to that only implicit in Doppes. In Donlen v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, the trial
court allowed an expert to testify that a particular transmission was
defective  because he had heard from
“others” that the same transmission in “other vehicle[s]” was “problematic.”
The Court of Appeal held that the “other vehicle” testimony was properly
“limited to the transmission model Ford installed in plaintiff’s truck and
other vehicles.”  (Id. at p. 154.)  The court
held that “[s]uch evidence certainly was probative and not unduly
prejudicial.”  (Ibid.) And in another case, Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 334, 347, the court held that a manufacturer’s internal
emails concerning a mechanical defect in a lemon law case were relevant to show
that the manufacturer “intentionally chose not to honor the express warranty,”
and thus merited civil penalties.
The motion is therefore GRANTED as
to the special interrogatories. 
3.     
Requests for Production
Plaintiff seeks further
responses to Requests for Production No. 10, 12, 24, 32, 37–73, 76,
77, and 82. The bulk of these requests — Nos. 37–72 — seek documents related to
customer complaints and internal investigations related to particular issues
identified by reference to applicable repair orders on the subject vehicle,
including issues with the hood latch, charge port label, acoustic vehicle alert
system warning, image processing module B, the auxiliary and main batteries,
gateway module, battery energy control module, traction battery, and battery
management system. Other requests, including Requests No. 12, 24, 73, 76, and
82, sought information particular to the subject vehicle in this case. Requests
No. 10 sought advertising media related to the subject vehicle, while Request
No. 32 sought documents related to Defendant’s customer loyalty program.
Defendant
objects on the basis of undue burden. (Opposition at pp. 7–8.) Defendant’s
argument is based solely on the breadth of discovery that Plaintiff has served,
amounting to 237 total discovery requests, including interrogatories, requests
for production, and requests for admission. (Opposition at p. 8.) 
“The court shall limit the scope
of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of
that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.020, subd. (a).) However, “the party opposing discovery has an obligation
to supply the basis for this determination,” and to provide evidence “showing
the quantum of work required.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 549.) Here, Defendant has not provided evidence to show that the
quantum of work required to respond to this discovery is unreasonable.
As noted with regard to the
Special Interrogatories, Plaintiff’s discovery is not limited solely to the
vehicle they purchased. Although Defendant argues information regarding
customer complaints may implicate the privacy rights of other consumers, Defendant
may account for this potential intrusion by redacting personal information from
its production.
However, good cause has not been
shown for all requests. Request No. 10 seeks advertising materials, but
Plaintiff’s case is for breach of warranty. Request No. 24 seeks documents
relating to the certification of the vehicle, but Plaintiff offers no explanation
as to the relevance of such documents. Likewise, Plaintiff provides no
explanation as to the requests regarding the customer loyalty program (Request
No. 32), or the “as-built data,” “pinpoint tests,” or “VIN digit breakdown”
regarding the subject vehicle (Requests No. 73, 76, and 77), which are terms
that Defendant objects to as unintelligible, and which Plaintiff does not
clarify in his moving papers.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to Requests No. 12, 37–72, and 82.
Defendant is to redact information personal identifying consumer information.