 Case Number:  24STCV05551    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JANE
  DOE,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
PICSART,
  INC., PICSART,
PICSART
  UK LIMITED, LAYLA
KIDWAI,
  CRAIG FOSTER, and
DOES
  1 to 100, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  24STCV05922
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 03/08/2024   
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: None Set 



 
Hearing Date:              August
15, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Picsart, Inc.; Picsart; Picsart UK Limited; Layla
Kidwai,
& Craig Foster. 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Jane Doe
Motion:
                     Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
Tentative
Ruling:      The Court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is DENIED. 
 

 

Background
            Jane
Doe (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on March 8, 2024 against her former
employers, PicsArt, Inc.; Picsart; PicsArt UK Limited (Entity Defendants);
Layla Kidwai (Kidwai); & Craig Foster (Foster, collectively all referred to
as Defendants). The Complaint puts forth four causes of action surrounding
violations of the Federal Employment and Housing Act (FEHA): 
1.     
Sexual Harassment (Hostile Work
Environment) in Violation of FEHA (as to all Defendants);
2.     
Sexual Discrimination in Violation
of FEHA (as to Entity Defendants);
3.     
Retaliation for Engaging in
Protected Activity in Violation of FEHA (as to Entity Defendants); and 
4.     
Wrongful Termination of Employment
in Violation of Public Policy.
The Complaint
stems from when Plaintiff was hired by Defendants on June 1, 2021 as corporate
counsel. (Complaint, ¶11.) Plaintiff alleges that at all times her duties were
performed in an exemplary manner. (Id. at ¶12.) Plaintiff is a woman,
and during her employment with Defendants became pregnant and took pregnancy
leave. ((Id. at ¶13.) Plaintiff alleges that she engaged in protected
activity while on pregnancy leave, including making complaints about her and
others’ experiences with pregnancy harassment. (Id.) Plaintiff’s leave
was from August 1, 2023 to December 28, 2023. (Id. at ¶15g.) After
Plaintiff’s return from maternity leave, no one contacted her about her work,
and Plaintiff was later informed by Kidwai that her job had been “absorbed” and
that she could work part-time as a consultant or contractor if Plaintiff so
chose. (Id. at ¶15m.) After multiple conversations with Defendants,
Plaintiff was terminated on February 23, 2024. (Id. at ¶¶14 and 15c-15k.)
Plaintiff then filed suit. 
The motion now
before the Court is Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings (Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion; Defendants file a reply.
Request for Judicial Notice
            Both
parties file a request for judicial notice (RJN). Plaintiff files their RJN
upon opposition requesting the Court judicially notice the following:
1.     
Order Granting Defendants Robinhood
Markets, Inc. and Hemal Doshi’s Motion
 to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings,
Erkan v. Robinhood Markets, Inc., et al., Case No. CGC-22-600149, dated October
17, 2022;
2.     
Government Code § 12940(j)(4)(C); 
3.     
Order Denying Defendants Meta Platforms, Inc., Ethan
Hillel Lubka and Ian Robert Laiks’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings, Kennedy v. Meta Platforms, Inc., et al., Case No. CGC-23-604370,
dated April 28, 2023; and 
4.     
Tentative Ruling and Order Denying Defendants House
Ninja, Brett Marz and Ramit Varma’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings, Burkholder v. House Ninja, et al., Case No. 23STCV02678, dated
June 26, 2023.
Pursuant
to Evid. Code §452, the Court will grant judicial notice as to items one, two,
and three. Judicial notice as to item four is denied. 
Upon reply,
Defendants file their RJN and request the Court judicially notice of the tentative
Ruling Granting Defendant Hollywood Inn, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and Stay Proceedings (which became the Order of the Court), Hernandez v. Hollywood
Inn, Inc., et al., Case No. 23STCV27343, dated October 17, 2022. The request
for judicial notice to the aforementioned tentative ruling is denied. The Court
notes that although the existence of tentative decisions can be judicially
notice, the Court cannot judicially notice the truth of any matters asserted
therein. (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 369-70 fn.
1; see also Fowler v. Howell (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1746, 1752-53.)   
 
Discussion
Legal Standard
Under both the
Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code of Civ. Proc. §1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the
signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to
stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4
must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the
written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also establish the other
party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. §1281.2.) The
filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy clearly within
the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes the other
party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v.
S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
Analysis
            In
their moving papers, Defendants assert they meet all the requirements in order
for the Court to grant the Motion. They present a valid arbitration agreement
(Declaration of Emma McEachan, hereinafter, McEachan Decl., Exh. A), and
evidence Plaintiff refuses to arbitrate. (See Complaint.) Defendants also argue
that the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
of 2021 (EFAA) does not apply to the Motion because Plaintiff never made a
claim for either sexual harassment or sexual assault in substance. (Moving
Papers, 16:16-18.)
            Upon
opposition, Plaintiff’s main contention is that EFAA does apply, as long as the
claims are “plausible”. Upon reply, Defendants reiterate the sexual harassment
claim is insufficient and does not come under the purview of EFAA. As explained
below, the Court disagrees and denies the Motion. 
            Plaintiff’s
Sexual Harassment Claim
            The
primary contention between the parties is whether the EFAA applies. Both
parties acknowledge that if the EFAA applies, it bars arbitration and forces
denial of the Motion. 
            Defendants
argue EFAA only applies to sexual assault disputes and sexual harassment
disputes, relying on Kader v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc.
(2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214 (Kader). The sexual harassment
definition provided by Kader is of particular pertinence here: “a sexual
harassment dispute is ‘a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to
constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.’”
(Kader, supra, at 222) Here, the state law would be the California FEHA.
As specific to Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claim, the general definition
under FEHA can be articulated as “any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.” (Beltran
v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865,
878, citing Cal. Gov't Code § 12940(j)(1).) More specifically, Plaintiff claims
a hostile work environment sexual harassment claim. Defendants rely on Taylor
v. Nabors Drilling USA, LP (204) 222 Cal.App.4th 1228 which
provides the following definition for a hostile work environment sexual
harassment claim under FEHA:    
A
hostile work environment sexual harassment claim requires a plaintiff employee
to show he or she was subjected to sexual advances, conduct, or comments that
were (1) unwelcome; (2) because of sex; and (3) sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the conditions of his or her employment and create an
abusive work environment; and he or she must establish the offending conduct
was imputable to his or her employer. (Taylor, supra, at 1236, citing Cal.
Gov't Code § 12940(j)(1).)
            Defendants
then close their argument by stating “Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts
to establish that ‘she was subjected to sexual advances, conduct, or comments
that were (1) unwelcome; (2) because of sex; and (3) sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the conditions of her employment and create an abusive work
environment.’” (Moving Papers, 17:7-10.) However, the Court disagrees. 
FEHA is clear
that “harassment” because of sex includes harassment based on pregnancy. (Cal.
Gov't Code §12940(j)(4)(c).) It need not be a sexual advance or comment driven
by sexual desire. Plaintiff makes clear in her Complaint that she made
complaints about the treatment related to her pregnancy and pregnancy leave, as
well as the harassment experienced by other employees due to their pregnancies.
(Complaint, ¶13c.) Moreover, Plaintiff provides facts showing that upon her
return from pregnancy leave, her job was “absorbed”, and she was terminated
shortly thereafter.[1]
This conduct is the exact conduct FEHA aims to prevent. To be clear, the
conduct of Plaintiff’s job being terminated was undoubtedly unwelcome, it is
alleged the conduct was because of her pregnancy, and termination is
sufficiently severe as to alter the condition of Plaintiff’s employment. The
elements of a hostile work environment sexual harassment claim have been
satisfied, brining Plaintiff’s entire Complaint under EFAA. 
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is DENIED.

It is so ordered.
 
Dated: August 15, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 


