  Case Number:  23STCP03847    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Supporters Alliance for Environmental Responsibility,


 
 
 
Petitioner and Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCP03847




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Long Beach, City Council of the City of Long
  Beach, and DOES I to X,
 
 


 
 
 
Respondents and Defendants.
 


 


 




CP VI Marketplace, LLC, Carmel Partners, LLC, and Roes I
  to X.


 
 
 
 
 
 
Real Parties in Interest and Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Trial Date: July 22, 2024 
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter  
Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief
Moving Party: Petitioner and Plaintiff, Supporters
Alliance for Environmental Responsibility 
Responding Party: Respondents and Real Parties in
Interest, City of Long Beach, City Council of the City of Long Beach, CP VI
Marketplace, LLC, and Carmel Partners, LLC,
 
T/R:     THE
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE IS GRANTED. 
 
The Court finds that supplemental
CEQA review is required because the Project is outside the scope of the SEASP
EIR and will have cumulative impacts not analyzed in the SEASP EIR. Supplemental
review also is required to consider impacts not mitigated to less than significant
in the SEASP EIR, and to analyze aesthetic impacts not analyzed in the SEASP
EIR.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE. 
 
            The Court
considers the Opening Brief, Opposition Brief, Reply Brief, and Sur-Reply.[1]
 
I.       
STATEMENT OF FACTS
 
A.  
The SEASP, Project,
and Project Site
 
The Southeast Area Specific Plan (“SEASP”),
adopted in 2017, serves as the zoning and policy guidance for land uses,
development standards, and design guidelines in the SEASP area. It aims to
maintain natural resources while aligning with the City’s 2030 General Plan
update.  Developed through a multi-year
process with substantial community involvement, the SEASP includes a Program
Environmental Impact Report (“PEIR”) that analyzed 17 environmental impact
categories, evaluated four alternatives, and included 20 appendices with
additional technical studies, responding to all public comments.  The SEASP PEIR includes 39 mitigation measures
applicable to future projects. The SEASP required an amendment to the City’s
Local Coastal Program (“LCP”), which was certified by the Coastal Commission in
2020 with 16 modifications to protect coastal resources.  These modifications were adopted by the City
of Long Beach in 2021, re-certifying the SEASP PEIR.  
 
On September 19, 2023, Respondents City of Long
Beach and City Council of the City of Long Beach approved entitlements sought
by Real Parties in Interest CP VI Marketplace, LLC and Carmel Partners, LLC, allowing
demolition of two office buildings and development of a six-story mixed use
building in Long Beach, California (“Project”).  The Project is one of the first mixed-use
residential projects within the SEASP area and would replace two two-story
office buildings and associated parking and landscape areas at 6615 and 6695
East Pacific Coast Highway with a new six-story mixed-use building, 91 feet
high.  The Project includes 390
residential units (17 affordable for very low-income levels for at least 55
years) and 5,351 square feet of commercial/retail space, with 576 vehicular
parking spaces, 196 bicycle parking spaces, 45,141 square feet of common and
private open spaces, and 24,507 square feet of public open space.  
 
The SEASP includes 10 distinct land use
districts, including the Mixed-Use Community Core (“MU-CC”) Area, where the Project
site is located.  The Project site is
designated as MU-CC, where buildings are limited to 80 feet in height and
specific areas have story limits.  The SEASP
PEIR includes a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (“MMRP”), requiring
all projects to implement SEASP policies, standards, and mitigation measures.  The MU-CC is envisioned as the primary
activity center with a mix of residential, retail, visitor-serving
accommodations, and office uses.  
 
The Project site is located at 6615 East Pacific
Coast Highway, surrounded by wetlands and open space, and in the coastal zone,
near where the San Gabriel River empties into San Pedro Bay.  The Project site is bordered by parking and
commercial uses to the north, an office building to the northeast, and the Los
Cerritos Wetlands 194 feet further northeast.  The “Pumpkin Patch” vacant lot is directly
south, with the San Gabriel River top bank about 435 feet south.  Pacific Coast Highway is to the west, with a
commercial mall across it.  The San
Gabriel River flood control channel close to the Project site is designated by
the Specific Plan and the LCP as an Open Water Local Sensitive Habitat Area.  An area of eelgrass designated as a National Marine
Fisheries Service “Habitat of Particular Concern” is nearby, and green sea
turtles that forage on eelgrass have been observed along the San Gabriel River.
 The Open Water portion of the San
Gabriel River flood control channel is recognized as an Environmentally Sensitive
Habitat Area (“ESHA”).  
 
B.  
Administrative
History
 
City approvals required for the Project included
a Site Plan Review, Lot Line Adjustment, Lot Merger, and a Local Coastal Development
Permit.  
 
The City prepared a 206-page Compliance
Checklist analyzing the project’s potential impacts across 20 areas, including
14 appendices with technical studies and the SEASP PEIR’s Mitigation Monitoring
and Reporting Program (“MMRP”).  The
checklist concluded that the project complies with SEASP density limits, falls
within the scope of the SEASP PEIR, and is exempt under Guidelines section
15183.  The City sought approval based on
compliance with these sections, without analyzing the necessity for subsequent
CEQA review.  
 
On July 20, 2023, the Planning Commission held a
hearing, supported by a staff report recommending Project approval without
further CEQA review, stating that the Project was consistent with and within
the scope of the SEASP PEIR and subject to the MMRP.  The City determined that the Project was
exempt from the requirement of preparing environmental documents pursuant to 14
C.C.R. sections 15162, 15168, and 15183, claiming that the Project was
adequately analyzed in the Program EIR prepared for the Specific Plan.  The staff report stated the Project is eligible
for ministerial concessions under the State Density Bonus Law, allowing
increased building height and story limits to facilitate additional residential
units and affordable housing.  It also
concluded that the Project aligns with the Coastal Act’s public access goals
and environmental justice policies.  
 
Appeals were filed by the Los Cerritos Wetlands
Land Trust, Sierra Club Los Cerritos Wetlands Task Force, and others.  
 
Additional comments and expert input were
submitted on September 18, 2023.  The
Council, after a hearing on September 19, 2023, denied the appeals and approved
the project with exemptions from CEQA review.  A Notice of Exemption (“NOE”) was issued on
September 20, 2023, citing consistency with SEASP and zoning, and confirming no
new significant impacts beyond those identified in the SEASP PEIR.  The Council adopted Resolution RES-23-0142,
confirming that the Project will not result in new significant impacts or an
increase in previously identified impacts.  
 
            On October 18, 2023, Petitioner
Supporters Alliance for Environmental Responsibility filed a Petition for Writ
of Mandate and Complaint against City of Long Beach, City Council of the
City of Long Beach, and Real Parties in Interest CP VI Marketplace, LLC and
Carmel Partners, LLC.  The petition alleges a violation of the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) (Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq).
The Petition requests injunctive and declaratory relief. 
 
II.       
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
“CEQA is a
comprehensive scheme designed to provide long-term protection to the
environment.”  (Mt. Lion Found. v.
Fish & Game Com. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 105, 112.)  “In enacting CEQA, the Legislature declared
its intention that all public agencies responsible for regulating activities
affecting the environment give prime consideration to preventing environmental
damage when carrying out their duties.” 
(Ibid.)  “CEQA is to be
interpreted to afford the fullest possible protection to the environment within
the reasonable scope of the statutory language.”  (Ibid.)  “In order to
ensure that the long-term protection of the environment, consistent with the
provision of a decent home and suitable living environment for every
Californian, shall be the guiding criterion in public decisions, CEQA and its
implementing administrative regulations (CEQA Guidelines)¿establish a
three-tier process to ensure that public agencies inform their decisions with
environmental considerations.”  (Muzzy
Ranch Co. v. Solano County Airport Land Use Com’n (2007) 41 Cal.4th 372,
379-80.)  The first tier requires an
agency to do an initial study to determine whether an activity is subject to
CEQA, the second tier concerns exemptions from CEQA review, and the third tier
requires an agency to submit an EIR in the event they find the project may
cause a significant effect.  (Id.
at 380-381.) 
 
Here, the City
found that no supplemental EIR was required for the Project pursuant to Public
Resources Code (“PRC”) sections 2116, 14 California Code of Regulations (“CCR”)
sections 15162 and 15168.  The City also
determined that the Project was exempt from subsequent CEQA review pursuant to
PRC § 21083.3 and 14 CCR § 15183 (“CEQA Streamline Provisions”).  
 
A.  
Supplemental Review
under PRC § 2116 and 14 CCR §§ 15162, 15168
 
Under PRC §
21166, if an EIR already has been prepared for a project, no subsequent or
supplemental EIR is required unless one of the following events occur: 
 
(1)  Substantial
changes are proposed to the project that necessitates major revisions to the EIR;
(2)  Substantial
changes in the circumstances under which the project is being undertaken
requiring major revisions to the EIR;
(3)  New
information that was not known and could not have been known at the time the
EIR was certified as complete becomes available.
Under 14 CRC §
15162, if an EIR has been certified or a negative declaration adopted for a
project, no additional EIR is required unless the lead agency finds substantial
evidence of one or more of the following:
(1)  Significant
changes to the project that introduce new significant environmental effects or
increase the severity of previously identified effects;
(2)  Significant
changes in the project’s circumstances that lead to new significant effects or
increased severity of known effects necessitate a new EIR; or
(3)  New,
previously unknown information that shows the project will have significant
effects not previously discussed, or that previously examined effects are now
more severe, also requires further review. This includes situations where
feasible mitigation measures or alternatives previously deemed unfeasible would
now substantially reduce significant effects, but the project proponents refuse
to adopt them, or if different feasible mitigation measures or alternatives not
previously analyzed could significantly reduce effects but are not adopted. (14
CRC § 15162 sub. (a).) 
When changes
or new information arise after adopting a negative declaration, the lead agency
must prepare a subsequent EIR if the criteria are met; otherwise, they must
decide whether to prepare a new negative declaration, an addendum, or no
further documentation.  (14 CRC § 15162
sub. (b).)  After project approval, the
lead agency’s role is complete unless further discretionary approvals are
needed; new information post-approval does not require reopening the approval
unless further discretionary approval is necessary.  (Id. subd. (c).)  If conditions for a subsequent EIR or
negative declaration arise, the agency granting the next discretionary approval
must prepare the required documentation before any further approvals by other
responsible agencies.  (Id.)  Subsequent EIRs or negative declarations must
undergo the same notice and public review as the initial documents and specify
where the original EIR or negative declaration can be reviewed.  (Id. subd. (d).) 
Under 14 CRC §
15168, a Program EIR is used for a series of related actions, which may be
connected geographically, as logical parts of a sequence of actions, through
rules, regulations, plans, or criteria governing a continuous program, or by
similar environmental effects and mitigation methods under the same authority.  (14 CRC § 15168 subd. (a).)  Using a program EIR offers several benefits:
it allows for comprehensive consideration of effects and alternatives compared
to individual EIRs, ensures cumulative impacts are considered, avoids repetitive
evaluation of policy considerations, enables broad policy alternatives and
mitigation measures to be considered early on, and reduces paperwork.  (Id. subd. (b).)  
Subsequent
activities within the program must be evaluated in relation to the program EIR.
 (14 CRC § 15168 subd. (c).)  If new effects are identified, a new initial
study leading to an EIR or negative declaration is required, which can tier
from the program EIR.  (Id. (c)-(d).)  If no new EIR is required, the agency can
approve the activity within the scope of the program EIR.  (Id. (c).)  The agency must incorporate feasible
mitigation measures and alternatives from the program EIR into later
activities.  (Id.)  For site-specific operations, the agency
should document the evaluation using a checklist to ensure the effects are
covered by the program EIR.  (Id.)  A detailed program EIR facilitates the
approval of later activities without further environmental documents.  (Id.) 
A program EIR can simplify preparing environmental documents for later
activities by providing the basis for determining significant effects in
initial studies, being incorporated by reference for regional influences,
cumulative impacts, and broad alternatives, and focusing subsequent EIRs on
new, previously unconsidered effects.  (Id.
(d).)  When public notice is required for
later activities under laws other than CEQA, the notice must state that the
activity is within the scope of the previously approved program and that the
program EIR adequately describes the activity for CEQA purposes.  (Id.) 

Generally, the
standard of review under PRC § 21166 and 14 CCR §§ 15162 and 15168 is
substantial evidence.  Petitioner
acknowledges this but asserts the fair argument standard should apply where a
later proposal is either not the same as or not within the scope of the project
described in the program EIR.  In
opposition, Respondents argue that the substantial evidence standard
applies.  
 
The Court
finds that the substantial evidence standard applies to the City’s
determination that no supplemental EIR was required for the Project.  But if the Court finds there was not
substantial evidence to support the City’s finding that the Project fits within
the SEASP PEIR, the activity is analyzed as a new project, and the fair
argument standard applies.  
 
“[W]e review
the administrative record to see that substantial evidence supports each
element of the exemption.”  (Lucas v.
City of Pomona (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 508, 538.)   “Because Guidelines section 15183 requires
an agency to examine whether a project’s environmental effects were analyzed as
significant impacts in a prior EIR on a general plan or zoning action with
which the project is consistent . . . the substantial evidence standard
applies.  Fair argument is not the proper
standard of review.”  (Id.)  The determination that a later activity is
within the scope of a program EIR is based on substantial evidence.  (Save Our Access v. City of San Diego
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 819, 847.)  If
substantial evidence supports the conclusion that a later activity is within
the scope of the program EIR, additional review under Guidelines section
15162(a) may be required.  If not, the
activity is treated as a new project, subject to the fair argument test.  (Save Our Access, supra, 92
Cal.App.5th at 859-860.)  The factual
determination of whether subsequent review is required under Guidelines section
15168 is essentially equivalent to that used under Guidelines section
15183.  (See Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v.
City of Turlock (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 273, 299, fn. 20.)  In either scenario, the lead agency must show
that substantial evidence supports a determination that the project is
within the scope of the previously certified EIR and will not cause new
significant impacts or an increase in the severity of previously identified significant
impacts.  
 
B.  
Streamlined Review under PRC § 21083.3
and 14 CCR § 15183
 
Under PRC §
21083.3, if a parcel is zoned or designated in a community plan to accommodate
a specific density, and an EIR was certified for that action, any project
consistent with this zoning or plan will need to address only environmental
effects unique to the parcel or project that were not previously considered
significant in the EIR, or new substantial information that shows increased
significance.  (PRC § 21083.3 subd. (a).)
 For development projects consistent with
a local agency’s general plan that had a certified EIR, environmental review is
limited to unique effects not previously addressed as significant, or effects
that new substantial information indicates are more significant.  (Id. subd. (b).)  This section does not waive the requirement
to analyze significant offsite or cumulative impacts not discussed in the prior
EIR.  (Id. subd. (c).)  Public agencies must implement any feasible
mitigation measures specified in the prior EIR for any significant effects
caused by the project.  (Id.)  The lead agency must confirm at a public
hearing whether these measures will be implemented.  (Id.) 

 
An
environmental effect is not considered unique to the parcel or project if
existing development policies or standards, based on substantial evidence, will
mitigate the effect unless new information indicates otherwise.  (Id. subd. (d).)  Rezoning actions consistent with a community
plan are exempt from additional review under this section.  (Id. subd. (e).)  A “community plan” is part of a general plan
that applies to a specific area, complies with relevant government codes,
includes development policies, and specifies measures for their implementation.
 (Id.)  Individuals cannot challenge a public
agency's decision regarding the project’s conformity to mitigation measures
identified in a prior EIR unless they participated in the relevant public
hearing.  (Id. subd. (f).)  Participation includes providing oral or
written testimony before the hearing concludes, except when public notice of
the hearing was not given as required.  (Id.)  Community plans adopted before January 1,
1982, can be amended to meet current criteria.  (Id. subd. (g).)  If amended, and an EIR was certified for the
plan, and the EIR has not been legally challenged or deemed inadequate, the
plan will be considered a “community plan” under this section.  (Id.) 

 
Under 14 CRC §
15183, CEQA mandates that projects consistent with the development density
established by existing zoning, community plans, or general plans, for which an
EIR was certified, do not require additional environmental review unless there
are project-specific significant effects peculiar to the project or its site.  (14 CRC § 15183 subd. (a).)  This streamlines the review process and
reduces repetitive environmental studies.  (Id.) 
When approving such projects, public agencies should only examine
environmental effects that are unique to the project or its location, were not
previously analyzed as significant in the EIR for the related zoning or plan,
are potentially significant off-site or cumulative impacts not discussed in the
prior EIR, or are identified significant effects that have become more severe
due to new substantial information.  (Id.
subd. (b).)  If an impact is not peculiar
to the project or location, has been addressed in the prior EIR, or can be
mitigated through standard development policies, an additional EIR is not
required.  (Id. subd. (c).)  This section applies to projects that align
with an adopted community plan, a zoning action, or a general plan, for which
an EIR was certified.  (Id. subd.
(d).)  Public agencies must mitigate
significant environmental effects identified in the EIR and confirm the
feasibility of these measures in a public hearing.  (Id. subd. (e).)  
 
Environmental
effects are not considered peculiar to the project if existing development
policies or standards effectively mitigate them unless new substantial
information indicates otherwise.  (Id.
subd. (f).)  Examples of uniformly
applied development policies include parking ordinances, public access
requirements, grading ordinances, hillside development ordinances, floodplain
ordinances, habitat protection ordinances, view protection ordinances, and
greenhouse gas reduction requirements.  (Id.
subd. (g).)  The absence of applicable
development policies does not alone make an environmental effect peculiar to
the project.  (Id. subd.
(h).)  This section also applies to
rezoning actions consistent with an approved general or community plan,
provided that the plan meets CEQA requirements.  (Id. subd. (i).)  Lastly, this section does not waive the
requirement to analyze potentially significant offsite or cumulative impacts
unless these impacts were adequately discussed in the prior EIR.  (Id. subd. (j).)  
Petitioner
argues that the fair argument standard applies to the City’s determination to
exempt the Project from CEQA review, because determining the scope of a
categorical exemption is a legal question subject to de novo review.  Petitioner argues that this situation is
distinguishable from Hilltop Group, Inc. v. County of San Diego (2024)
99 Cal.App.5th 890, where the court held that the substantial evidence standard
applies when assessing whether adverse significant impacts were previously
analyzed in a related community plan or zoning action under section 15183.  Petitioner contends that Hilltop did
not clarify whether the fair argument standard applies to “peculiar” impacts.  Petitioner says that the fair argument
standard applies to offsite and cumulative impacts under PRC § 21083.3 and 14
CCR § 15183 because the term “potentially significant” impact requires use of
the fair argument standard.  (Berkeley
Hillside Preservation v. City of Berkeley (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1086, 1115.)  
The Court
finds that the City’s exemption determination is reviewed under the substantial
evidence standard.  As mentioned above,
this involves the “second tier” of CEQA analysis, which “concerns exemptions
from CEQA review.”  (Muzzy Ranch Co.,
supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 380.) 
In enacting CEQA, the Legislature recognized that not all “projects”
will have a significant effect on the environment, and therefore should not be
subject to the regulations imposed by CEQA. 
(Berkeley Hillside Preservation v. City of Berkeley (2015) 60
Cal.4th 1086, 1100-1101.)  The Legislature
instructed the Office of Planning and Research to “prepare and develop proposed
guidelines for the implementation of [CEQA]”, which “shall include a list of
classes of projects that have been determined not to have a significant effect
on the environment and that shall be exempt from [CEQA review].  In adopting the guidelines, the Secretary of
the Natural Resources Agency shall make a finding that the listed classes of
projects referred to in this section do not have a significant effect on the
environment.”  (Pub. Resources Code, §§
21083, 21084.)  “In response to [the
California Legislature’s] mandate,” the Secretary of the Natural Resources
Agency has concluded that thirty-three (33) categories of “projects” “do not
have a significant effect on the environment” and “are declared to be
categorically exempt from the provisions of CEQA.”  (CEQA Guidelines, §15300.)  Where a public agency properly finds that a
proposed “project” falls into one of the thirty-three (33) categorical
exemptions articulated within the CEQA Guidelines, “no further environmental review is
necessary.”  (Muzzy Ranch, supra,
41 Cal.4th at 380.)  “The agency need
only prepare and file a notice of exemption (see CEQA Guidelines,¿§§ 15061,
subd. (d),¿15062, subd. (a)), citing the relevant statute or section of the
CEQA Guidelines and including a brief statement of reasons to support the
finding of an exemption (id.,¿§ 15062, subd. (a)(4)).”  (Ibid.) 
An agency’s
finding that a proposed project is categorically exempt from CEQA review is
reviewed for a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  (Pub. Resources Code, § 21168.5. “Abuse of
discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in a manner required
by law or if the determination or decision is not supported by substantial
evidence.”  (Ibid.; see also
Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho
Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th 412, 435.)  “‘[O]nce an agency . . . determines, based on
substantial evidence in the record, that the project falls within a categorical
exemption . . ., the burden shifts to the challenging party . . . to “‘produce
substantial evidence . . .’” [citations] . . . that one of the exceptions to
[the] categorical exemption applies.’ [Citation.]”  (CREED-21 v. City of San Diego (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 488, 514; see Berkeley Hillside, supra, 60
Cal.4th at p. 1105 [“As to projects that meet the requirements of a categorical
exemption, a party challenging the exemption has the burden of producing
evidence supporting an exception.”].) 
 
C.   Density Bonus Law
The Density Bonus Law (“DBL”), Government Code §§
65915 et seq., was enacted to address California’s affordable housing shortage.
 When a developer agrees to construct a
specified percentage of units for low- or very-low-income households, the city
or county must grant the developer one or more concessions and a “density bonus,”
allowing the developer to increase the project'’ density beyond the maximum
limit set by local zoning laws.  (Bankers
Hill 150 v. City of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 770.)  In addition to increased density, the DBL
mandates incentives and concessions, such as reduced or modified local
development standards, to lower development costs.  (Id.) 
It also requires waivers of local development standards (such as height
limits) that would otherwise prevent construction at the density allowed by the
DBL.  (Id.)  The DBL includes very limited exceptions and
places the burden on the city to prove that an exception applies.  (Id.) 

 
III.       
ANALYSIS
 
A.  
The Project is Eligible for
Streamlined Environmental Review 
 
Petitioner argues that the Project is not
eligible for streamlined environmental review under Guidelines section 21083.3
because the Project is inconsistent with the zoning requirements found in the
SEASP.  The Project would be more than
91-feet tall, exceeding the maximum height requirement of 80 feet.  It would be six stories tall, exceeding the
maximum building story requirements of five and three for buildings along
Shopkeeper Road and Pacific Coast Highway, respectively.  
 
Respondents argue that the waivers granted under
the DBL make the Project consistent with the SEASP and the General Plan.  Respondents assert that the City was required
to approve the building height limit and story increases under the DBL.  Respondents argue that the Project qualifies
for a 20% density bonus under the DBL because it provides 17 very low-income
affordable units.  (Gov. Code, § 65915(b).)
 They assert that density bonuses, along
with necessary concessions, incentives, and waivers, must be provided if the
statutory criteria are met.  (Gov. Code,
§ 65915(b), (d), (e).)  Government Code §
65589.5 mandates that such concessions and incentives be granted unless they do
not result in cost reductions, would have a specific adverse impact on public
health and safety, or would be contrary to state or federal law.  (Gov. Code, § 65915(d)(1).)  And local agencies are prohibited from
applying development standards that would preclude construction at the granted
densities and with the authorized concessions and incentives unless the agency
can make specific adverse impact findings.  (Gov. Code, § 65915(e)(1).)  Respondents contend that the Project obtained
necessary waivers.
 
Respondents point to Bankers Hill (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 755, 770, which states a city “must” waive a building height
limitation that would preclude development permitted by the DBL.  They also point to Wollmer v. City of
Berkely (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th (Wolmer II), which held that a city’s
waiver of zoning standards for a density bonus project did not render the
project inconsistent with general plan and zoning requirements.  (Wollmer II, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 1347-1349.)  And Petitioner
argues that the DBL does not apply in the Coastal Zone relying on Kalnel
Gardens, LLC v. City of Los Angeles (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 927, which
states that while the DBL does not supersede the Coastal Act, it requires
that density bonuses be granted unless doing so would violate the Coastal Act.  (Kalnel Gardens, LLC, supra, 3
Cal.App.5th at 944.)[2]
 
In reply, Petitioner asserts that the Project
exceeds the height and story limits in the SEASP EIR, which functions as part
of the City’s LCP and General Plan.  Petitioner
says the City is prohibited from granting density bonuses if they violate the
LCP, making the waivers discretionary, not ministerial.  And Petitioner contends that even if the DBL
and Coastal Act could be balanced to allow waivers in the Coastal Zone, such waivers
would be discretionary because a project is ministerial only when approval can
be legally compelled without any changes in design to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts.  (Friends of
Westwood v. City of Los Angeles (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 259, 267; 14 CCR §
15369.)  Since the City’s decision to
grant height waivers under the DBL in violation of the LCP was discretionary, Petitioner
claims that the Project was subject to CEQA review. 
 
            In sur-reply,
Respondents argue that Petitioner abandoned its original argument, now claiming
that the Project’s density bonuses violate the LCP due to height concerns.  However, the City determined that the project
is consistent with the Coastal Act.  They
also state that Petitioner did not challenge the City’s finding of consistency
with the Coastal Act during the administrative process and is therefore barred
from doing so now. 
 
The Court finds that the waivers under the DBL
were discretionary approvals rather than ministerial, due to the need to
balance between the Coastal Act and DBL and ensure that the density bonus does
not violate the Coastal Act.  There is
substantial evidence to support the City’s finding that the Project was
consistent with the zoning and general plan.  The evidence shows that the City analyzed the
Project’s consistency with the Coastal Act in the City’s Staff Reports and
findings.  The Project, which provides for
17 very low-income affordable units, qualifies for a 20% density bonus under
the DBL.  The Project obtained waivers to
allow a six-story building with a maximum height of 91 feet.  There is substantial evidence to show that these
waivers are essential to accommodate the density bonus and affordable units,
and state law requires the City to grant them. 
The Court finds that the Project remains consistent with the SEASP and
General Plan because the DBL preempts local zoning regulations in favor of
state-mandated affordable housing goals. 
The Project is eligible for streamlined environmental review under PRC §
21083.3 and 14 CCR § 15183. 
 
B.   However, Supplemental CEQA Review is Required
Because the Project is Outside the Scope of the Prior EIR 
Petitioner argues that CEQA’s subsequent review
provisions 14 CCR §§ 15168(c)(2) or 15168 are inapplicable to the Project because
it is outside of the scope of the project analyzed in the specific plan EIR.  According to 14 CCR § 15168(c), later
activities must be examined considering the program EIR to determine whether
additional environmental documentation is needed.  If a later project falls outside the program’s
scope, it must be treated as a separate project, and the previous environmental
review cannot be relied on.  (Sierra
Club v. County of Sonoma (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1320-1321.)  Petitioner claims the Project exceeds the
height and story limits permitted by the Specific Plan and was not analyzed in
the Specific Plan EIR.  
 
Respondents contend that the SEASP permits
building heights up to seven stories for certain overnight visitor-serving
accommodations in the MU-CC, and this scenario was analyzed in the SEASP PEIR.  Respondents also argue that the building
height limit and story waivers for the Project are “ministerial” approvals
required by state law if the objective criteria in the DBL are met.  Even if a subsequent or supplemental EIR
identified significant impacts from the Project’s ministerial waivers, the City
would lack the discretion to modify the Project to address those concerns.  
 
In reply, Petitioner argues that the question of
buildings up to seven stories was analyzed in the SEASP EIR only as to “overnight
visitor-serving” uses in the MU-CC zone, such as hotels, which are not part of
the Project.  The SEASP specifically
limits buildings to a maximum height of 80 feet and the SEASP EIR’s analysis
assumed compliance with the five-story height limit without considering density
bonuses.  It says the SEASP EIR does not
mention the DBL, indicating no analysis of increased building heights due to
the DBL.  The SEASP allows seven-story
buildings only in limited circumstances for projects that provide significant
community amenities, which the Project does not.  And even if seven-story buildings were
analyzed, the SEASP EIR assumes nine-foot floor heights, which do not exceed 80
feet in total height.  The Project’s
91-foot height was never analyzed in the SEASP EIR.  
 
Under 14 CCR § 15168, if a subsequent project is
not consistent with the program or plan, it must be fully analyzed as a new
project or in another tiered EIR if it may have a significant environmental
effect.  (Friends of College of San
Mateo Gardens v. San Mateo Co. Comm. Coll. Dist. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 937, 960;
Save Our Access, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at 845).  In Save Our Access, the court held that
supplemental CEQA review was required when a city allowed building heights to
exceed 30 feet in the Coastal Zone, as the program EIR for the Local Coastal
Plan assumed that buildings would not exceed 30 feet in height.  (Id. at 845, 859-61).
 
As discussed above, the height and story waivers
are discretionary approvals.  While the
waivers allowed the Project to remain consistent with the general plan and
zoning, Respondents have not shown there is substantial evidence that the
Project is within the scope of the SEASP EIR. 
The SEASP permits buildings up to seven stories only as to “overnight visitor-serving”
uses in the MU-CC zone, such as hotels, which are not part of the Project.  The SEASP specifically limits buildings to a
maximum height of 80 feet, and the SEASP EIR’s analysis assumed compliance with
the five-story height limit without considering density bonuses.  And the SEASP EIR does not mention the DBL,
indicating that increased building heights due to the DBL were not analyzed.  Petitioner also has shown that the SEASP
allows seven-story buildings only in limited circumstances for projects
providing significant community amenities, which this Project does not offer.  If seven-story buildings were analyzed, the
SEASP EIR assumes nine-foot floor heights, which would not exceed 80 feet in
total height.  It does not appear that the
Project’s 91-foot height was analyzed in the SEASP EIR.  The Court finds that the Project is outside
the scope of the SEASP EIR and further review is required. 
 
C.  
Additional CEQA Review Is Not
Required as to Peculiar Impacts 
 
Petitioner argues that additional CEQA review is
required for any potentially significant impacts that are “peculiar to” a
project or its site if those impacts were not addressed as significant impacts
in the previous EIR.  Petitioner asserts
that the City’s own 14 CCR § 15183 Compliance Checklist acknowledges that the
Project has significant impacts peculiar to the project or the parcel that were
not analyzed as significant effects in the SEASP PEIR, including impacts
related to hazardous materials, flood flows, noise, and transportation.  
 
Respondents contend that the City did not “admit”
that the Project requires additional review. They state that if an effect is
peculiar to the site but can be mitigated to a less than significant level,
further review is not required.  Respondents
assert that the Compliance Checklist provides substantial evidence explaining
why impacts in areas such as flood flows, noise, and transportation will be
mitigated to a less than significant level.  And Respondents contend that alleged “new
information” cannot trigger supplemental review unless it was not known and
could not have been known at the time the SEASP PEIR was certified.  Respondents reassert these arguments in their
sur-reply.
 
1.   
Hazardous Material Impacts
 
Petitioner argues that the Project site is
uniquely hazardous due to soil and groundwater contamination that exceed
regulatory screening levels, including total petroleum hydrocarbons, VOCs,
pesticides, and metals.  A Phase II
Environmental Site Assessment and an investigation by the Los Angeles Regional
Water Quality Control Board found contamination exceeding regulatory screening
levels for total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH), petroleum-related VOCs, and
chloroform.  Groundwater contamination
includes VOCs, pesticides, and metals, with benzene, naphthalene, arsenic,
barium, and lead exceeding drinking water maximum contaminant levels.  Expert evidence presented in Petitioner’s
comments indicates these chemicals are toxic and/or carcinogenic.  The site has a history of use for oil
production and as a landfill, located within the Seal Beach Oil Field and
Chevron Seal Beach Gas Plant, with two oil and gas production wells on site.  The Regional Board suggests the site may have
also been used for industrial waste disposal, with ongoing concerns about
landfill gas and methane migration from adjoining oil field properties.  Evidence demonstrates the Project will result
in hazardous material impacts due to these conditions.  The City’s CEQA Checklist acknowledges these
impacts are peculiar to the project and were not analyzed as significant
effects in the SEASP PEIR.  
 
Petitioner asserts that the SEASP EIR did not
analyze the site-specific chemicals, propose a cleanup plan, or suggest
mitigation measures for construction workers or future residents, instead
relying on regulatory measures.  (AR 2406-2407.)
 Regulatory compliance determinations
must be based on a project-specific analysis. (Californians for Alternatives
to Toxics v. Dep’t of Food & Agric. (2005) 136 Cal.App.4th 1; Ebbetts
Pass Forest Watch v. Dep’t of Forestry & Fire Protec. (2008) 43 Cal.4th
936, 956.)  Petitioner states this
omission is critical due to the potential spread of contaminated soil and
vapors during substantial demolition and grading activities, posing health
risks to workers, future residents, and nearby populations.  (Ass’n for a Cleaner Env’t v. Yosemite
Cmty. Coll. Dist. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 629, 639.)  Petitioner states that under CCR § 15183,
subsequent CEQA review is required to analyze and mitigate this peculiar impact.  (PRC § 21083.3(a); 14 CCR § 15183(a),
(b)(1)-(2).)  It also constitutes
significant new information necessitating supplemental environmental review.  (PRC § 21166; 14 CCR § 15162(c)).
 
Respondents assert that the SEASP PEIR evaluated
potentially significant impacts at various sites within and near the SEASP area
containing hazardous substances from historical operations.  The PEIR included three mitigation measures
(HAZ-1, HAZ-2, and HAZ-3) to address these impacts.  They claim that the Project’s implementation
of these measures, along with compliance with federal, state, and local laws
regarding hazardous substances management and disposal, would render potential
hazardous materials impacts less than significant.  The Compliance Checklist explains that
implementing the SEASP mitigation measures will address site-specific effects,
reducing impacts to a less-than-significant level consistent with the PEIR.  Potential hazardous materials impacts can be
substantially mitigated by uniformly applied development policies or standards,
making an additional EIR unnecessary.  A
supplemental memorandum by the City’s consultants states that while no
historical oil or gas wells are within the Project area, the site’s location in
a designated City methane zone subjects it to additional municipal code
requirements.  The site, formerly used as
a landfill, requires review and oversight by multiple regulatory agencies, with
compliance mandated.  The City concluded
that three mitigation measures, along with compliance with applicable law,
would mitigate impacts to a less-than-significant level.  
 
The Court finds that the Project site’s history
of oil production and landfill use, resulting in soil and groundwater
contamination, was adequately addressed in the SEASP PEIR.  These hazardous material impacts, including
contaminants such as total petroleum hydrocarbons, VOCs, pesticides, and
metals, were analyzed, and specific cleanup plans were proposed, not
necessitating further environmental review. 
 
2.   
Biological Resources Impacts
 
Petitioner argues that the Project has
significant biological resources impacts peculiar to it requiring subsequent
CEQA review.  It points to the conclusion
of Dr. Shawn Smallwood that the Project would significantly impact biological
resources unique to the Project and its site, impacts not analyzed in the SEASP
EIR.  Wildlife biologist Noriko Smallwood
identified six special status species on-site: Monarch butterfly, Allen’s
hummingbird, Western gull, Double-crested cormorant, Cooper’s hawk, and
Red-shouldered hawk.  Dr. Smallwood found
that at least 135 species of vertebrate wildlife use the site, with at least 29
being special-status species. The Project would result in 405 bird-window
collision fatalities annually due to a 6-story building in their flightpath.  Vehicle collisions from Project traffic would
cause further fatalities of special status species.  Petitioner argues that these impacts are
“peculiar” under 14 CCR § 15183 because they are unique to the parcel.  Petitioner says that the SEASP EIR incorrectly
concluded that there were no sensitive species on the Project site and did not
analyze impacts of avian flight collisions or traffic collisions.  
 
Respondents argue that substantial evidence in
the SEASP PEIR, Compliance Checklist, Biological Technical Report, and
supplemental technical memorandum support the City’s determination that the
Project will not have significant impacts, including the application of seven
mitigation measures and other SEASP provisions designed to protect biological
resources.  Respondents point out that the
Project site is fully developed, with 5.61 acres of the 5.75-acre site
consisting of existing buildings, an asphalt parking lot area, ornamental
landscaping, and highly disturbed areas in the adjacent Pumpkin Patch.  Respondents also argue that the supplemental
technical memorandum by Glenn Lukos Associates refutes Petitioner’s claim that six
special-status species were identified on the Project site, explaining that the
special-status designations claimed are generally inaccurate or inapplicable.  Mitigation measure BIO-8 and SEASP Policy 5.30
are incorporated to prevent direct impacts to nesting birds.  Petitioner’s claim that the SEASP PEIR
analyzed building heights up to seven stories.  The argument regarding bird-window strikes is
addressed by the requirement for bird-safe building treatments in SEASP section
8.3.14.  And the claim about traffic
collisions with wildlife is based on an irrelevant rural road study, not
applicable to the urbanized Project site adjacent to Pacific Coast Highway.  Glenn Lukos Associates determined that
migratory birds could adjust their flight around developments, and the Project
site does not constitute an established wildlife corridor that would be
substantially interfered with. In sur-reply, Respondents state that a
disagreement among experts does not undermine the substantial evidence
supporting the City’s decision.  (Save
Cuyama Valley v. County of Santa Barbara (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1059,
1069.)
 
The Court finds that there is substantial
evidence to support the City’s findings that there are not peculiar impacts
requiring supplemental review.  Generally,
potential effects peculiar to the project were adequately analyzed in the SEASP
PEIR and covered by the Compliance Checklist.  The City’s proposed mitigation measures for
flood flows and noise, such as raising the elevation of selected portions of
the development, floodproofing retrofits, and modified pile driving techniques,
are part of uniformly applied policies. The Compliance Checklist indicated that
the Project could have effects peculiar to the Project such as flood flows,
noise, and transportation, but it sufficiently analyzed them and concluded that
no additional CEQA impact analysis was required.  
 
As to biological resources, the Compliance
Checklist, Biological Technical Report, and supplemental technical memorandum,
support the City’s determination that the Project will not have a significant
impact, including through the application of seven mitigation measures and
other SEASP provisions designed to protect biological resources. There is also
substantial evidence presented by GLA that there are no peculiar impacts to
biological resources.  GLA determined
that migratory birds could adjust their flight around the development while
staying within their natural flyways to and from wintering and breeding grounds.
 The Project site does not constitute an
“established native resident or migratory wildlife corridor” that the Project
could substantially interfere with.  
 
Given the substantial evidence of adequately
analyzed impacts, there are no peculiar impacts requiring supplemental review. 
 
D.  
There is Substantial Evidence
that the Project Will Have Cumulative Impacts Not Analyzed in the Specific Plan
EIR
 
Petitioner states that even if Section 21083.3
and 14 CCR § 15183 are applicable, supplemental CEQA review is required for
“cumulative impacts which were not discussed in the prior EIR.”  (14 CCR §§ 15183(b)(3), (j).)  Petitioner argues there is substantial
evidence that the impacts from the Project at 6615 PCH, combined with those
from a residential project at 6700 PCH, will have significant cumulative
impacts not analyzed in the Specific Plan EIR or the City’s CEQA Compliance
Checklist.  Although they were considered
simultaneously, Petitioner says the environmental review for each project fails
to discuss the impacts of the other adequately. 
            
Petitioner argues the Project will have
significant cumulative impacts on biological resources not analyzed in the
SEASP EIR.  Dr. Smallwood concluded that
the projects at 6615 PCH and 6700 PCH will have cumulatively significant
impacts on wildlife, including special status species.  He stated that the six-story building at 6615
PCH would fragment aerial habitat, causing bird-window collision fatalities and
contributing to wildlife-automobile collision mortality.  
 
Petitioner also argues that the Project will
have significant cumulative air quality impacts not analyzed in the Specific
Plan EIR.  The CEQA Compliance Checklist
for 6615 PCH reports construction NOx emissions of 96 pounds per day (ppd),
just below the significance threshold of 100 ppd. The 6700 PCH project will
have NOx emissions of 41 ppd.  Petitioner
claims that the two projects combined will exceed the CEQA significance
threshold with 137 ppd, and that the City’s CEQA documentation ignores these
cumulative impacts. Petitioner argues that the failure to mention the 6700 PCH
project in relation to cumulative impacts means there is no substantial
evidence supporting the finding that the 6615 PCH project does not have
significant cumulative impacts.
 
The Court
finds that Petitioner has shown the Project would have significant cumulative
impacts from the Project at 6615 PCH combined with those from the residential
project at 6700 PCH not adequately analyzed in the SEASP PEIR or the City’s
CEQA Compliance Checklist.  The fair
argument standard applies in determining whether these cumulative impacts may
have a significant effect on the environment. Respondents argue in their sur-reply
that the substantial evidence standard governs under Guideline 15183.  The Court disagrees because, as discussed
above, the
Court found that there is not substantial evidence to support the City’s
finding that the Project fit within the SEASP PEIR, and as a result the
activity is analyzed as a new project to which the fair argument standard
applies.  The fair argument standard, which
sets a low threshold for requiring an Environmental Impact Report (EIR),
mandates that if there is any substantial evidence supporting a fair argument
that a project may have a significant environmental effect, an EIR must be
prepared.  (Pocket Protectors v. City
of Sacramento (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 903 and No Oil, Inc., supra 13
Cal.3d 68.) 
 
As to cumulative biological resources impacts, the
Court is persuaded by Dr. Smallwood’s identification of six special status species
on the Project site and the adverse effects of the Project on these species,
including 405 annual bird-window collision fatalities. These are significant
cumulative biological impacts not analyzed in the SEASP PEIR.  Respondents’ argument that there is no
substantial evidence of significant impact fails to address the cumulative
nature of these impacts. Nor does it address the fair argument standard, which
requires treating the effect as significant where there is expert disagreement.
 (Sierra Club v. Sonoma (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1307, 1316-1317).
 
As to cumulative air quality impacts, the Court finds
that the cumulative NOx emissions of 137 ppd from the Project and the 6700 PCH
project exceed the CEQA significance threshold, constituting a significant
cumulative air quality impact not analyzed in the SEASP PEIR.  In the sur-reply, Respondents contend that
Petitioner fails to address the City’s supplemental technical memorandum, which
states that, according to SCAQMD guidance, a project’s maximum daily emissions
exceeding the project-specific threshold are also considered cumulatively
significant.  They assert that this
guidance and the City’s expert opinion provide substantial evidence that there
will be no significant cumulative air quality impacts.  Respondents also claim that the Project’s
cumulative impacts were assessed in the SEASP PEIR.  However, the Court finds that Petitioner has
provided sufficient evidence to support a fair argument that there may be
cumulative air quality impacts that were not analyzed in the SEASP PEIR.  The Court notes that the CEQA Compliance
Checklist fails to mention the 6700 PCH project in relation to cumulative
impacts.  The acknowledgment of
significant impacts related to flood flows, noise, and transportation in the
15183 Compliance Checklist further supports the need for supplemental CEQA
review.  
 
E.  
The City Did Not Fail to
Implement Mitigation Measures Required by the SEASP EIR
 
Under 14 CCR § 15183(e), an agency can limit
further CEQA analysis of an impact only when it “undertakes or requires others
to undertake mitigation measures specified in the EIR which the lead agency
found to be feasible.”  (14 CCR §
15183(e)(1)).  Petitioner argues that the
City has eliminated required mitigation measures to reduce hazardous materials
impacts required by the Specific Plan EIR.  The EIR mandated the preparation of a soil
management plan to be “evaluated by a qualified environmental professional.”  But Petitioner says the City removed this
requirement.    Without
this requirement, Petitioner says there is no assurance of the plan’s adequacy
to safeguard workers and residents.  
 
Petitioner also claims the City failed to
implement feasible mitigation measures identified in the Specific Plan MMRP to
reduce impacts on biological resources.  Specific
Plan Mitigation Measure BIO-3 requires that “[i]f sensitive biological
resources are identified within or abutting the proposed development area, the
project applicant shall submit evidence to the Long Beach Development Services
Department that a qualified biologist has been retained to prepare a construction
management plan.”  Petitioner states the
City did not require the project applicant to submit evidence that a qualified
biologist had been retained to prepare a construction management plan.  
 
In opposition, Respondents argue that the
Compliance Checklist states that mitigation measures HAZ-1, HAZ-2, and HAZ-3
apply to and are incorporated into the Project, as modified.  Respondents describe the modified HAZ-2 as
more robust than the original version, enhancing the requirement for evaluation
of an SMP.  Respondents argue that
streamlining CEQA review under Guidelines section 15183 would be defeated if
project-specific refinements to mitigation measures from a program EIR
triggered yet another CEQA document.  They
argue that refinements or additions to mitigation measures do not necessitate
endless public review periods, which would only serve to arm project opponents
with a paralyzing weapon of hired experts discovering flaws in mitigation
measures.  (Long Beach Sav. & Loan
Ass’n v. Long Beach Redevelopment Agency (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 249, 263).  Respondents reassert these arguments in their
sur-reply. 
 
The Court finds that the City did not fail to
incorporate mitigation measures from the SEASP PEIR into the Project.  The Compliance Checklist states that
mitigation measures HAZ-1, HAZ-2, and HAZ-3 are applicable to and incorporated
into the Project, including the full text of these measures.  The Court finds the modifications to HAZ-2 to
be appropriate given the existing regulatory programs for subsurface
contamination remediation, and the CEQA Guidelines expressly authorize such
refinements to mitigation measures identified earlier in a program EIR.  Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines specifies
that when an agency relies on an earlier analysis in a program EIR, it should
describe the mitigation measures that were incorporated or refined and the
extent to which they address site-specific conditions for the project.  This approach was followed in the City’s
Compliance Checklist.  
 
As to Petitioner’s claim that mitigation measure
BIO-3 will not be implemented, the Compliance Checklist includes BIO-3 and
states that it applies to the proposed Project. 
The City’s supplemental technical memorandum explains that BIO-3
requires a construction management plan addressing resources in the vicinity of
the property and any potential impacts unique to the Project site.  This plan includes provisions for a monitoring
biologist to be on-site during all grading activities, with work halted if
potential impacts are observed.  
 
F.   
The Project Does Not Have
“Peculiar” Energy Impacts Requiring Further Review
 
Petitioner argues that subsequent CEQA review is
necessary because energy impacts were not analyzed in the SEASP EIR.  14 CCR § 15183(a)(2) mandates review for
impacts not previously analyzed as significant effects in a prior EIR for
zoning, general plan, or community plan actions.  (14 CCR § 15183(a)(2).)  The City’s CEQA Checklist acknowledges that
the SEASP PEIR did not analyze energy impacts separately, as the energy
thresholds were added to Appendix G after PEIR certification Therefore, Petitioner
claims that under section 15183 these impacts must be analyzed in a subsequent
CEQA document.  Also, under CEQA PRC §
21166, subsequent review is required if a project will have one or more
significant effects not previously discussed.  (14 CCR 15162(a)(3)(A).)  Petitioner argues that a CEQA document should
assess potential measures like solar panels, wind turbines, or heat pumps to
reduce energy demands, and the City’s reliance on Title 24 and CALGreen does
not meet the requirements for an adequate discussion of the Project’s energy
impacts.
 
In opposition, Respondents argue that the
Project does not have “peculiar” energy impacts requiring further review.  According to 14 CCR § 15183, an impact is
considered “peculiar” if it belongs exclusively to a project or is
characteristic only of that project.  Here,
they claim that the Project’s energy impacts are typical of similar
developments statewide and were contemplated under the SEASP.  Additionally, substantial evidence in the
PEIR, Compliance Checklist, and supplemental technical memorandum shows that
the Project will not result in wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary energy
consumption.  The Project not only
complies with the 2013 Building Energy and Efficiency Standards and CalGreen
but also meets the LEED Silver Standard, ensuring energy conservation.  Mitigation measures AQ-1 through AQ-6 promote
renewable energy by requiring electric landscaping equipment, energy-efficient
appliances, renewable energy sources, and EV charging infrastructure.  AQ-4 mandates enrollment in 100% renewable
electricity services and prohibits gasoline-fueled equipment.  The Project includes features to minimize
transportation-related fuel usage, such as bicycle lanes, sidewalks, bicycle
parking, a bus turnout, improved pedestrian accessibility, and a mix of
residential and commercial spaces to reduce vehicle trips.  
 
The Court finds that further CEQA review is not necessary
for the Project’s energy impacts.  The
Project’s energy impacts are typical of similar types of development throughout
the state, and are contemplated by and allowed under the SEASP.  In addition, substantial evidence in the
PEIR, Compliance Checklist, and supplemental technical memorandum shows that
the Project would not result in wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary
consumption of energy resources.
 
G.  
Supplemental Review is
Required to Consider Impacts Not Mitigated to Less Than Significant in the
SEASP EIR
 
Petitioner argues that subsequent CEQA review is
necessary for impacts not mitigated to less than significant levels in the
SEASP EIR.  The Specific Plan EIR
acknowledged several impacts that were not mitigated to insignificance,
including air quality, cultural resources, greenhouse gases, noise, and
transportation.  The City’s 15183 CEQA
Compliance Checklist acknowledges these as significant and unavoidable impacts
but contends that no additional environmental review is required since it would
not result in new or more severe impacts than those previously evaluated and
disclosed in the SEASP EIR.  Petitioner
asserts that this conclusion is incorrect.  Section 15183 only applies to impacts that
were “adequately addressed in the prior EIR.”  (14 CCR § 15183(j).)  In Communities for a Better Environment v.
California Resources Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98, 122-125, the court
held that when a first-tier EIR admits a significant, unavoidable environmental
impact, a second-tier EIR is required for later projects to ensure those
unmitigated impacts are “mitigated or avoided.”  
 
In opposition, Respondents argue that an
additional EIR is not required for impacts that are not peculiar to the project
or parcel or have been addressed as significant effects in the prior EIR.  (14 CCR § 15183(b)(1), (2), (c).)  
 
The Court finds that the Project requires further
review for significant and unavoidable impacts already identified in the SEASP
PEIR. As discussed above, Petitioner sufficiently shows that the Project does
not fit within the scope of the SEASP EIR, and it is not exempt under 14 CCR §
15183.  
 
H.  
Supplemental Review is
Required to Analyze Aesthetic Impacts Not Analyzed in the SEASP EIR
 
Petitioner argues the Project’s location on
Pacific Coast Highway and its proximity to San Pedro Bay and the San Gabriel
River will result in aesthetic impacts that the SEASP EIR did not consider.  Section 15183 requires subsequent
environmental review for impacts that were not previously analyzed as
significant effects, are potentially significant off-site or cumulative impacts
not discussed in the prior EIR, or are previously identified significant
effects that have become more severe due to new information.  (14 CCR § 15183(b).)  The SEASP EIR concluded that the SEASP
program would not have significant aesthetic impacts based on the assumption
that no building would exceed five stories or 80 feet in height.  But the Project will be six stories and more
than 91 feet tall.  Petitioner says this
will block views from the PCH towards San Pedro Bay and the San Gabriel River,
impacting the scenic quality of these areas.
 
Petitioner cites Pocket Protectors v. City of
Sacramento (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 903, 937, which notes that aesthetic
issues should be studied in an EIR to assess project impacts.  The court in Pocket Protectors, Mira
Mar Mobile Community v. City of Oceanside (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 477, 492,
and Citizens for Responsible and Open Government v. City of Grand Terrace
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1337, emphasized that aesthetic impacts are
relevant and should be considered in environmental reviews.  
 
In opposition, Respondents argue that the
Project’s potential aesthetics impacts were adequately assessed in the SEASP
PEIR, which analyzed maximum building heights up to seven stories. Respondents
assert that Petitioner fails to address the Compliance Checklist’s aesthetics
analysis, which found that the Project would not obstruct existing views of the
Los Cerritos Wetlands, hinder views of the San Gabriel River along Pacific
Coast Highway, or affect views of Alamitos Bay from Marina Drive.  It also concluded that the Project would not
have a substantial adverse effect on scenic vistas.  
 
            The Court finds that
subsequent CEQA review is necessary for the Project’s significant aesthetic
impacts that were not analyzed in the SEASP EIR.  The SEASP EIR assumed no building would exceed
five stories or 80 feet in height, but the proposed Project will be six stories
and over 91 feet tall.  Petitioner shows
that this increased height will likely block views from the Pacific Coast
Highway towards San Pedro Bay and the San Gabriel River, impacting the scenic
quality of these areas.  As noted, section
15183 requires subsequent environmental review for impacts not previously
analyzed as significant effects, for potentially significant off-site or cumulative
impacts not discussed in the prior EIR, or for previously identified
significant effects that have become more severe due to new information.  Under CEQA, a subsequent EIR is necessary when
new information of substantial importance, unknown at the time of the previous
EIR, shows that the project will have significant effects not previously
discussed or that new mitigation measures could substantially reduce these
effects.  The Court concludes that the
significant aesthetic impacts due to the Project's increased height and its
location on a scenic highway were not adequately addressed in the SEASP EIR.  


