 Case Number:  24PSCV00137    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Manuel  Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November 9, 2022 v.  Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh, et al.  1  – Defendant Mahgerefteh’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions and for  Sanctions in the Amount of $2,475.00 Against Plaintiff; 2  – Defendant Mahgerefteh’s Motion to Compel Responses to Interrogatories and for  Sanctions in the Amount of $585.00 Against Plaintiff; and 3  – Defendant Mahgerefteh’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production  of Documents and for Sanctions in the Amount of $585.00 Against Plaintiff  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion for order  establishing admissions. The Court hereby deems the truth of the matters  specified in Requests for Admission (Set One) admitted and conclusively  established as to Plaintiff. The Court further GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s  request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $900.00 against  Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant  Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion to compel  responses to Request for Production of Documents. Plaintiff must serve verified  responses, without objections, and all responsive documents on counsel for  Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order. The Court further  GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of  $585.00 against Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary sanctions to  counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion to compel  responses to interrogatories, but only as to Form Interrogatories (Set One).  Plaintiff must serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One),  without objection, on counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the  Court’s order. The Court further GRANTS the request for monetary sanctions in  the amount of $585.00 against Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary  sanctions to counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s  order.  The Court will grant the motion as to Special Interrogatories (Set  One), but on the condition that Defendant Mahgerefteh pays the additional  motion filing fee for the Special Interrogatories within five days of the  Court’s order. Otherwise, the motion will be denied without prejudice as to  Special Interrogatories (Set One). Assuming the filing fee gets paid, Plaintiff  must provide verified responses, without objection, to Special Interrogatories  (Set One), within 30 days of the Court’s order.  Defendant Mahgerefteh is ordered to give notice of this ruling and  file proof of service of same within five calendar days.  BACKGROUND  This is a real property loan dispute. On January 12, 2024,  plaintiff Manuel Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November  9, 2022 (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh  (Mahgerefteh), Law Offices of Richard G. Witkin APC (collectively, Defendants)  and Does 1 through, alleging causes of action for declaratory relief, unfair  and unlawful business practice, injunctive relief, cancellation of instruments,  rescission based on unconscionability, and accounting.  On  July 2, 2024, Defendant Mahgerefteh moved to deem requests for admissions  admitted. On July 25, 2024, Mahgerefteh moved to compel responses to  interrogatories and requests for production of documents. The motions are  unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD When a party  fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the  interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives  any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the  demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely  response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work  product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a  monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to a request for admission, the party  propounding the request for admission may move for an order to deem the  genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the  requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who  fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on  privilege or work product. (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court  shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for  admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a  proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial  compliance with Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a  monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a  timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although  meeting and conferring is not required before bringing motions to compel, (Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court appreciates Mahgerefteh’s efforts to meet and  confer, (Ramos Decls., ¶ 9).              Analysis              Defendant Mahgerefteh served  Requests for Admissions (Set One), Request for Production of Documents (Set  One), Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One) on  Plaintiff on March 7, 2024. (Ramos Decls., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Despite having granted  extensions to respond, Plaintiff failed to provide responses. (Ramos Decls., ¶¶  5-10.) The Court finds Mahgerefteh’s motions to be well taken. However, the  Court notes that Mahgerefteh’s motion to compel responses to interrogatories  combines both Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories into one motion.  Each set of discovery requests requires its own motion and a  separate filing fee. (See Govt. Code, § 70617, subds. (a), (f); Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.010 et seq., 2031.010, et seq., 2033.010, et seq.) Therefore,  the Court will GRANT the motions as to Requests for Admissions (Set One),  Request for Production of Documents (Set One), and Form Interrogatories (Set  One). The Court will later grant the motion as to Special Interrogatories (Set  One) once Mahgerefteh pays the necessary filing fee; otherwise, the motion will  be denied without prejudice as to Special Interrogatories (Set One).              With respect to  monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS Mahgerefteh’s request as to Requests for  Admission (Set One) in the reduced amount of $900.00, comprised of 1.0 hour  preparing the motion and 1.0 hour appearing at the hearing on the motion, for a  total or 2.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $450.00. The Court further  GRANTS Mahgerefteh’s requests as to Request for Production of Documents (Set  One) and Form Interrogatories (Set One) in the requested amount of $585.00 for  each motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion for order  establishing admissions. The Court hereby deems the truth of the matters  specified in Requests for Admission (Set One) admitted and conclusively  established as to Plaintiff. The Court further GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s  request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $900.00 against  Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant  Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion to compel  responses to Request for Production of Documents. Plaintiff must serve verified  responses, without objections, and all responsive documents on counsel for  Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order. The Court further  GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of  $585.00 against Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary sanctions to  counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Mahgerefteh’s motion to compel  responses to interrogatories, but only as to Form Interrogatories (Set One).  Plaintiff must serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One),  without objection, on counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the  Court’s order. The Court further GRANTS the request for monetary sanctions in  the amount of $585.00 against Plaintiff. Plaintiff must pay said monetary  sanctions to counsel for Defendant Mahgerefteh within 20 days of the Court’s  order.  The Court will grant the motion as to Special Interrogatories (Set  One), but on the condition that Defendant Mahgerefteh pays the additional  motion filing fee for the Special Interrogatories within five days of the  Court’s order. Otherwise, the motion will be denied without prejudice as to  Special Interrogatories (Set One). Assuming the filing fee gets paid, Plaintiff  must provide verified responses, without objection, to Special Interrogatories  (Set One), within 30 days of the Court’s order.  Defendant Mahgerefteh is ordered to give notice of this ruling and  file proof of service of same within five calendar days.