  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Maria Angela
Rodriguez v. Mercado Latino, Inc., et al. 
1
– Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc., Grosac, Inc., Richard Rodriguez, and Roberto
Rodriguez’s Demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint (Joined by Defendant Jorge
Rodriguez); and
2
– Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc., Grosac, Inc., Richard Rodriguez, and Roberto
Rodriguez’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Third Amended Complaint (Joined by
Defendant Jorge Rodriguez) 
TENTATIVE RULING           
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action of the Third Amended
Complaint without leave to amend as to Moving Parties and Jorge. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action. Defendants must file an
answer within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
The Court
GRANTS the motion to strike as to page 1, lines 27 through 28 of the TAC, and
page 13, lines 19 through 20 as to Moving Parties and Jorge. The Court
otherwise DENIES the motion. 
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela
Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.
(Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto
Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution of
Mercado Latino and Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, financial elder abuse, and
accounting. 
On
July 29, 2024, Defendants Mercado Latino, Grosac, Richard, and Roberto
(collectively, Moving Parties) demurred to and moved to strike portions of the
TAC. On July 30, 2024, and August 15, 2024, Jorge joined Moving Parties’
motions. On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and motion to
strike. On August 27, 2024, Moving Parties replied to both oppositions. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a
superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and
accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the
pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE – Demurrer 
            The Court
GRANTS Moving Parties’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd.
(d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice
only as to the existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does
not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein.
(Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)           
DISCUSSION – Demurrer           
            Meet
and Confer 
            Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were
required to meet and confer telephonically or in person before bringing this
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving
Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be sufficient. (Leight Decl., ¶ 2, subd. (b).) 
Second
Cause of Action – Involuntary Dissolution (Grosac) 
To state a cause of action for involuntary
dissolution, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the plaintiff is a
person entitled to bring such an action and the grounds for such relief, as set
forth in Corporations Code section 1800. (Corp. Code, § 1800.) 
“Generally, if a verified
complaint contains allegations fatal to a cause of action, a plaintiff cannot
cure the defect by simply omitting those allegations in an amended pleading
without explanation. [Citation.] This principle is known as the sham pleading
doctrine. But amendment in this manner is allowed where a plaintiff clearly
shows that the earlier pleading is the result of mistake or inadvertence.
[Citations.]” (JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ward (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 678,
690; see also Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1109 [sham pleading
doctrine also applies to unverified complaints].) “When the plaintiff pleads
inconsistently in separate actions, the plaintiff's complaint is nothing
more than a sham that seeks to avoid the effect of a demurrer. [Citation.]” (Cantu
v. Resol. Tr. Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 877-878, italics in original.) 
Moving Parties demur to the
Second Cause of Action for involuntary dissolution of Grosac on the grounds
that the TAC fails to state a cause of action based on the sham pleading
doctrine. Moving Parties contend Plaintiff made contradictory allegations in a prior
probate action (LASC Case No. 17STPB08193; Request for Judicial Notice, Exs.
1-4) in which Plaintiff alleged her father gave her some shares in Grosac and
does not mention having invested $50,000.00 of her own money in exchange for an
equal ownership interest in Grosac. Moving Parties also contend the allegations
of the $50,000.00 investment are missing from the original complaint and First
Amended Complaint. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends Moving Parties’ sham pleading argument is barred by Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), and that it is not a sham pleading. Plaintiff
contends the Second Cause of Action of the TAC is almost identical to the
previous versions of the complaint, and Defendants were parties to the prior
probate petitions, so they could have raised these arguments in their prior
demurrers, but they did not. Plaintiff then contends the Second Cause of Action
is not a sham pleading because the allegations upon which Defendants base their
arguments are not material and do not create a defect or an unexplained
inconsistency. Plaintiff also contends the original complaint and First Amended
Complaint do in fact allege that she financially contributed to the purchase of
the real property held by Grosac, and that the investment issue was not
relevant to the probate case or inconsistent with the pleadings in this case. 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s arguments regarding Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (b), persuasive. Moving Parties did not raise this sham pleading issue
in their prior demurrers. The probate action was filed in 2018 and involved the
Moving Parties. (See Requests for Judicial Notice, Exs. 1-4.) Moving Parties’
reply papers do not dispute they were aware of the probate action either. (Reply,
pp. 4-5; Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”]) While some
grounds for attacking the complaint like jurisdiction and failure to state a
claim are not waivable for failure to object by demurrer or answer, (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.80), the argument Plaintiff failed to previously raise is the sham
pleading argument, not the failure to state a cause of action or lack of
jurisdiction. Moving
Parties’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action must therefore be overruled.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) 
Moreover, even if the Court
were to consider Moving Parties’ substantive arguments, the Court does not find
the absence of allegations from the probate case petitions regarding the
$50,000.00 investment to be an inconsistent allegation for purposes of the sham
pleading doctrine. The petitions in the probate case were focused on
transferring certain real property into a trust so that it could be
distributed. (Requests for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1, ¶ 14; Id., Ex. 2, ¶
21.) Plaintiff’s ownership interest in Grosac does not appear to have been a
concern in the probate case. The Court also does not necessarily find
allegations of a $50,000.00 investment versus a gift of the Grosac stock to
Plaintiff to be inconsistent allegations either, as the Court reads them to be
alternative theories by which Plaintiff came to allegedly own the stock. (TAC,
¶¶ 16, 23; Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 2, ¶ 13; Williams
v. S. California Gas Co. (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 591, 598
[alternative factual allegations based on alternative legal theories is
permissible].) 
Furthermore, Plaintiff
correctly contends that she previously alleged having contributed money or
assets to Grosac. (Compl., ¶ 43; FAC, ¶¶ 63, 70.) The Court sustained multiple
demurrers in part because Plaintiff had alleged insufficient facts, so it would
be unfair to punish Plaintiff for alleging additional facts, such as the
$50,000.00 investment. (See Order re Tentative Ruling (2/27/24); Order re
Tentative Ruling (6/10/24).) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action of the Third Amended
Complaint. 
Fourth Cause of Action – Financial Elder Abuse 
“Financial
abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any
of the following: 
(1)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both. 
(2)
Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. 
(3)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70. 
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd.
(a).) 
Elder abuse claims are statutory causes of action and
therefore must be pleaded with particularity. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, citing Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795). 
Sham Pleading and Insufficient Damage Allegations 
Moving Parties demur to the Fourth Cause of Action
for financial elder abuse on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of
action and is a sham pleading. Moving Parties reiterate their arguments here
that this is a sham pleading because there were no allegations in the probate
petitions or earlier versions of the complaint in this action of an agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendants regarding Plaintiff investing $50,000.00 into
Grosac to purchase real property and receive shares in return that would be
equal to her brothers’ interests. Moving Parties contend the allegations in the
probate action are inconsistent because she alleged in that case that she obtained
an equal ownership interest as a gift from her father. Moving Parties also
contend the allegations of the TAC lack the specificity required for a
financial elder abuse claim. 
Moving Parties further contend the only damages
alleged pertain to Defendants’ refusal to provide Plaintiff the Grosac stock
certificates or other evidence of her ownership, but these allegations are a
sham because Plaintiff sought in the probate action to have title to the real
property transferred from Grosac to the trust, which would prevent any
purchaser from buying the property. Moving Parties also contend the TAC does
not allege the majority shareholders agreed to the sale of that property or
that anyone offered to buy Plaintiff’s interest in Grosac. 
In opposition, Plaintiff reiterates that the sham
pleading argument was not raised in prior demurrers. Plaintiff contends that
the Fourth Cause of Action is not a sham for the same reasons set forth above,
namely that the prior allegations Moving Parties reference are not material,
they do not create an unexplained inconsistency, Plaintiff previously alleged
her financial contributions to Grosac in the prior versions of the complaint
and there was no reason to allege the $50,000.00 investment in the probate
action because it was not a probate issue. Plaintiff then contends she
adequately alleged harm and argues that the applicable heightened pleading
standard for financial elder abuse is particularity, not specificity. Plaintiff
further contends the TAC alleges that Defendants refused to provide her with
her Grosac stock certificates, they deny she owns Grosac stock, and they refuse
to reimburse her for her investment. 
The Court rejects Moving Parties’ sham pleading
arguments for the same reasons set forth above. Nevertheless, the Court finds
the TAC fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for
financial elder abuse. The Court sees two primary problems here, namely that
the onus was on Graciliano to transfer the shares to Plaintiff, not Defendants,
and that Plaintiff still does not allege any facts evidencing damages. The TAC
alleges that Jorge acknowledged in writing in 2005 that Graciliano wanted each
of his children to be equal shareholders in Grosac, and that he would gift
enough shares to Plaintiff to make her an equal shareholder. (TAC, ¶ 20.) The
TAC also alleges that Graciliano signed a notarized document stating that it
was his wish Plaintiff would receive his and his wife’s shares in Grosac. (TAC,
¶ 22.) The TAC then alleges in a conclusory fashion that Graciliano left his
children as the sole shareholders of Mercado and Grosac, each having an equal
25% share. (TAC, ¶ 23.) The problem here is that the shares at issue belong (or
belonged) to Graciliano, so the onus of transferring the shares to Plaintiff as
alleged fell on Graciliano, not Defendants. Thus, even assuming the allegations
of the TAC are true, Defendants are not at fault for Graciliano’s failure to
transfer the shares to Plaintiff. 
As for Plaintiff having been allegedly contacted by
persons and entities interested in buying the City of Industry property, that
does not damage Plaintiff because the TAC alleges Grosac owns the property, not
Plaintiff. (TAC, ¶ 29.) The TAC also does not allege that anyone offered to
purchase Plaintiff’s shares in Grosac. (Id.) Moreover, as stated previously,
it is unclear how Plaintiff suffered harm due to the alleged withholding of Plaintiff’s
stock certificates. Stock certificates are merely evidence of ownership, and
the rights to the stock may exist without the certificates. (Lowe v. Copeland (1932) 125 Cal.App. 315, 325
(Lowe).) Plaintiff is still free to sell whatever shares she has in
Grosac, even if the she does not have the certificates. (Cf Id. [“a
certificate is only evidence of ownership, which may exist without it…”].) To
the extent Plaintiff alleges she demanded her stock certificates, that is still
of no avail to Plaintiff because she simultaneously alleges that Defendants deny
Plaintiff has any such rights. (TAC, ¶ 50, subd. (i); Lowe, supra, 125
Cal.App. at p. 325, italics added [“a demand is necessary to put a corporation
in default for failure to deliver certificates of stock where the right
thereto has not been denied [citations]…”]) 
Furthermore, the authority
Plaintiff cited does not state that holding onto stock certificates constitutes
financial elder abuse. Keading v. Keading (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1115 involved
a defendant who caused the elder to execute new stock certificates shortly
before the elder died. (Id., at p. 1128.) Mears v. Crocker First Nat.
Bank of San Francisco (1948) 84 Cal.App.2d 637 involved conversion, not
financial elder abuse. (Id., at p. 644.) 
Statute of Limitations 
“While a demurrer based on statute of limitations lies
where the dates in question are shown on the face of the complaint, if those
dates are missing, there is no ground for a general demurrer. [Citation.]” (United W. Med. Centers v. Superior Ct. (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 500, 505.) The statute of limitations for financial elder abuse is
four years from the when the plaintiff discovers, or through the exercise of
reasonable diligence, should have discovered the facts constituting the
financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.7.) 
Moving Parties demur to the
Fourth Cause of Action on the grounds that it is barred by the statute of
limitations. Moving Parties contend the statute of limitations applies here
because the TAC alleges Plaintiff invested $50,000.00 in Grosac in 1988, and
Plaintiff therefore knew or should have known since 1988 that she had not
received Grosac stock certificates. Moving Parties also contend Plaintiff had
presumptive knowledge about the stock certificates since she alleges she was an
officer and director of Grosac. Moving Parties also point to an allegation that
in 2005, Jorge acknowledged in writing that the parties’ father, Graciliano,
wanted each of the siblings to have an equal number of shares in Grosac, and
that he would gift Plaintiff enough to make her shares equal. 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends this argument was not raised in previous demurrers and is therefore
prohibited under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b). Plaintiff
also contends the discovery rule tolled the statute of limitations until 2018
because she did not learn that Defendants were withholding her stock
certificates until then, and she did not have any reason to suspect her family
would not provide her with stock certificates and stock. 
The Court finds Plaintiff
correctly contends Moving Parties failed to raise this argument in previous
demurrers. The SAC alleged the date of 1988. (SAC, ¶¶ 15, 25.) Moving Parties’
demurrer to the SAC did not raise the statute of limitations as an issue. (Demurrer
(4/24/24).) However, failure to object by demurrer for failure to state a cause
of action is not a waivable defect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.80.) As such, because
the statute of limitations is simply a form of the argument of failure to state
a cause of action, the Court may still consider this objection, notwithstanding
Moving Parties’ failure. 
Nevertheless, the Court notes
that the statute of limitations for an elder abuse claim would not apply here with
respect to the alleged agreement made in the 1980’s because Plaintiff was not
an elder at that time. (TAC, ¶¶ 16, 62; Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.27.) Moreover,
the Court does not find the alleged $50,000.00 investment in 1988 to
necessarily trigger any statute of limitations, as at most it only alleges when
Plaintiff made the investment, not when Defendants breached an obligation or harmed
Plaintiff. (See TAC, ¶ 28.) The TAC otherwise does not allege dates indicating
when Defendants withheld Plaintiff’s stock certificates or indicia of
ownership. (See TAC, ¶ 29.) To the extent Defendants’ alleged misconduct
occurred starting in 2018, that would be within the four-year statute of
limitations for financial elder abuse since Plaintiff filed this action on May 21,
2021. (See TAC, ¶¶ 25-26, 29.) Furthermore, as noted above, the Court finds the
onus with respect to the transfer of stock really fell on Graciliano in this
matter, not Defendants. Thus, the statute of limitations is not an issue here. 
            Nevertheless,
for the other reasons set forth above, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
Fourth Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this
time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id., § 436.) 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE – Motion to Strike 
            The
Court GRANTS Moving Parties’ request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (c);
Belen v. Ryan Seacrest Prods., LLC (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 1145, 1160 fn. 2 [Court of Appeal took judicial notice of statement
of information filed with the California Secretary of State indicating who the
chief executive officer, secretary, and chief financial officer were of
business entity].) However, “[t]aking judicial notice of a document is not the
same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular
interpretation of its meaning.” (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont
Gen. Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and
Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Moving
Parties were required to meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be
sufficient. (Leight Decl., ¶ 2, subd. (b).) 
            Page 1, lines 27-28 
            “’Close
corporation’ means a corporation, including a close social purpose corporation,
whose articles contain, in addition to the provisions required by Section 202,
a provision that all of the corporation's issued shares of all classes shall be
held of record by not more than a specified number of persons, not exceeding
35, and a statement, ‘This corporation is a close corporation.’” (Corp. Code, §
158, subd. (a).) 
            Moving Parties move to strike the
language at page 1, lines 27 through 28 of the TAC, which reads: “At all times
relevant here, MERCADO and GROSAC were and are closely held… (corporations).”
Moving Parties move strike this language on the grounds that the allegation
that Mercado and Grosac are close corporations are conclusory and false. Moving
Parties contend none of the articles of incorporation for Mercado or Grosac indicate
that all issued shares of all classes shall be held by no more than a specific
number of persons, not to exceed 35. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends
the motion fails to comply with Rule 3.1322, subdivision (a), of the California
Rules of Court, which requires the moving party to quote in full the language
sought to be stricken, and the motion does not fully quote the language at
issue with respect to close corporations. Plaintiff also contends the motion
fails because it relies on the Court construing documents attached to the
request for judicial notice, which the Court cannot do. Plaintiff also disputes
the reliability of the documents provided for judicial notice. 
            The
Court agrees with Moving Parties. While the Court generally may not take
judicial notice of the truth of the contents of a document, it may do so when
there is only one reasonable interpretation of a document. (See Baldwin v.
AAA Northern California, Nevada & Utah Ins. Exchange (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 545, 553 [demurrer sustained without leave to amend where there was
only one reasonable interpretation of the document]; A. Demurrers, Cal. Prac.
Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A, ¶ 7:15.10.) The articles of
incorporation Moving Parties submitted contain stamps from the California
Secretary of State, which supports their reliability. (Evid. Code, § 1452,
subd. (b).) Moreover, there is only one reasonable interpretation here, i.e., that
Mercado and Grosac are not closely held corporations. None of them contain
language indicating that they are limited to 35 or less shareholders, nor do
they contain the express language, “This corporation is a close corporation.”
(Requests for Judicial Notice, Exs. 1-3.) 
To the extent Moving Parties
did not quote in full the language sought to be stricken per Rule 3.1322,
subdivision (a), of the California Rules of Court, the Court agrees Moving
Parties did not fully comply with this requirement, but the Court also finds
this to be a technicality here where it is clear what Moving Parties seek to
strike. The Court therefore exercises its discretion to not deny on that basis.
Nevertheless, the Court admonishes Moving Parties to comply with the
requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the motion to strike as to page 1, lines 27 through 28 of the TAC. 
            Page 11, line 14 
            Moving Parties move to strike the
language at page 11, line 14 of the TAC, which reads: “(Against All
Defendants)”. Moving Parties reference the Court’s ruling issued on June 10,
2024, in which the Court sustained the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in
the Second Amended Complaint as to Defendant Mercado without leave to amend,
but the TAC alleges that the Fourth Cause of Action is against all Defendants,
which would include Mercado. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends that
this is a minor defect that does not affect the substantial rights of the
parties. Plaintiff acknowledges the Court’s prior ruling sustaining the
demurrer without leave to amend to the Fourth Cause of Action as to Mercado and
contends therefore that this defect cannot affect the substantial rights of any
party. 
            The
Court agrees with Plaintiff. This is a minor pleading error; what matters is
the substantive allegations, none of which allege Mercado is liable for
financial elder abuse. (See TAC, ¶¶ 61-72; see Alfaro v. Cmty. Hous.
Improvement Sys. & Plan. Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1356, 1371 [“What is necessary to state a cause of action are the facts
warranting legal relief, and not whether a plaintiff has provided apt, inapt,
or no labels or titles for causes of action. [Citation.]”) 
            Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the motion to strike as to page 11, line 14. Moreover, given that
the Court sustained the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action without leave to
amend, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as to page 11, line 14 moot. 
            Page
13, lines 19-20 
            Attorney
fees are recoverable either by law, statute, or contract. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)           
Moving Parties seek to strike the
language at page 13, lines 19 through 20 of the TAC, which reads: “An order
that MERCADO and/or GROSAC pay all of ANGIE’s attorneys’ fees and costs under
corporate governance laws and rules.” Moving Parties contend there is no
contractual or statutory basis for attorney fees here. 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends she is entitled to recover attorney fees based
on corporate governance laws. 
            The
Court agrees with Moving Parties. The TAC does not allege either a statutory or
contractual basis to recover attorney fees here. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5,
subd. (a)(10).) Neither the TAC nor Plaintiff’s opposition identify any
statutes regarding corporate governance that provide for recovery of attorney
fees in this case. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike as to page 13, lines 19
through 20 of the TAC. 
CONCLUSION           
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action of the Third Amended
Complaint without leave to amend as to Moving Parties and Jorge. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action. Defendants must file an
answer within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
The Court
GRANTS the motion to strike as to page 1, lines 27 through 28 of the TAC, and
page 13, lines 19 through 20 as to Moving Parties and Jorge. The Court
otherwise DENIES the motion. 
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days.