 Case Number:  23PSCV03776    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  6 Plaintiff
Crossroads Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC’s Request for Entry of Default
Judgment 
Defendant: DDL Trucking, Inc. 
COURT RULING 
            Plaintiff’s
request for entry of default judgment is GRANTED.           
BACKGROUND
This is a breach of contract case.
On December 6, 2023, plaintiff Crossroads Equipment Lease and Finance, LLC
(Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant DDL Trucking Inc. (DDL), Dengdi
Lan aka Deng Di Lan (Lan), and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action
for breach of written agreement, breach of guaranty, account stated, unjust
enrichment, and open book account. On February 1, 2024, default was entered
against DDL. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a default judgment package
against DDL. On July 1, 2024, the Court entered summary adjudication as to the
second cause of action for breach of guaranty against Lan.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a party
has failed to timely respond or appear. (Code Civ. Proc., § 585.) A party
seeking judgment on the default by the court must file a Request for Court
Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other
admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest
computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) declaration
of nonmilitary status; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all
parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate
judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a showing of
grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for
attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1800.) 
ANALYSIS 
Plaintiff
seeks default judgment against Defendant DDL in the total amount of $75,062.14,
including $68,990.01 in damages and $6,072.13 in interest. The Court finds that
Plaintiff is entitled to the default judgment. However, the Court notes that
although summary adjudication was granted in Plaintiff’s favor and against Defendant
Lan with respect to the second cause of action for breach of guaranty,
Plaintiff has not yet dismissed the remaining causes of action against Lan and submitted
a proposed judgment against Lan. 
CONCLUSION           
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
request for entry of default judgment is GRANTED.