  Case Number:  20CHCV00648    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/16/24                                                                   

Case #20CHCV00648
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Motion filed on 11/14/23.  Amended 
notice of motion filed on 11/15/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia
Alvarado
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners
Association 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting
Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia Alvarado leave to file a First Amended
Complaint.  

 

RULING: The motion is granted as set forth
below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a dispute between neighbors,
Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia Alvarado (collectively, Plaintiffs) and
Defendants Michael Meadows and Althea Meadows (collectively, the Meadows).
 
On 10/22/20, Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners Association (the HOA) and the Meadows
for: (1) Breach of Governing Documents against the HOA, the Meadows and Does
1-20, (2) Nuisance against the HOA, the Meadows and Does 1-20, (3) Continuing
Trespass against the Meadows, (4) Intentional Interference With Economic
Relations against the Meadows, (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty against the HOA and
Does 1-20, (6) Negligence against the HOA, the Meadows and Does 1-20 and (7) Declaratory
Relief which does not identify the defendants against which it is alleged.  
 
On 11/14/23, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting Plaintiffs leave to file a First Amended
Complaint which separates the various alleged breaches of the governing
documents into 8 separate causes of action against the Meadows for breach of
governing documents and 8 separate causes of action by Patricia Alvarado, only,
against the HOA for failure to enforce the governing documents.  The proposed First Amended Complaint also
includes causes of actions for breach of fiduciary duty by Patricia Meadows
against the HOA, nuisance against the Meadows and the HOA, negligence against
the Meadows and the HOA, trespass against the Meadows, intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage against the Meadows and declaratory relief
against the Meadows.
 
The HOA has opposed the motion and the Plaintiffs have
filed a reply to the  opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs claim that during the time this litigation has
been pending, the Meadows’ bad behavior/breaches of the governing documents have
continued and increased to include additional violations/breaches.  In addition to separating their breach of
governing documents and failure to enforce governing documents causes of action
into separate claims addressing each alleged breach, Plaintiffs seek to plead a
specific number, $2,000,000.00, for their monetary damages.
 
Also, since Alex Alvarado’s appeal of this Court’s ruling
granting the HOA’s motion for summary judgment against him is pending, the
failure to enforce governing documents claims alleged in the proposed First
Amended Complaint are only asserted by Patricia Alvarado.     
 
In furtherance of justice, the court may allow, upon any
terms as may be just, a party to amend any pleading.  CCP 437(a)(1).  The court may grant such leave at any time
before or after the commencement of trial. 
CCP 576.  Leave to amend is to be
liberally granted and, if timely requested, should only be denied if it will
prejudice the opposing party.  See
Scott (1972) 6 C3d 541, 549; Morgan (1959) 172 CA2d 527, 530.
 
Plaintiffs contend that no party will be prejudiced by
the amendment because discovery has already been conducted on the issues
proposed to be added.  For the same
reasons, Plaintiffs claim that there would be no need for a trial
continuance.  The motion also notes that
the appeal of the granting of the HOA’s motion for summary judgment against
Alex Alvarado will not be fully briefed until after the current, 3/4/24, trial
date.  
 
The HOA’s opposition to the motion, which is not
supported by any authority or evidence, contends that the motion is unnecessary
because the alleged new misconduct which forms the bases for additional causes
of action are not new claims/causes of action but rather evidence of whether
the HOA or the Meadows violated the governing documents.  The HOA also argues that the amount of
damages does not need amending as it is a subject matter for discovery.  
 
The HOA’s opposition which was filed on 12/4/23, contends
that if Plaintiffs are permitted to amend their complaint as requested, it
would seek a trial continuance to allow time for it to bring a motion for
summary adjudication.  The opposition
also seems to argue that regardless of whether this motion is granted, a trial
continuance is warranted due to the pending appeal by Alex Alvarado as it is
unclear if Alex Alvarado will be allowed to present evidence against the HOA at
trial and/or what will happen if the appeal is granted and the case remanded.  The opposition also indicates that the HOA’s
counsel is scheduled to begin a 4-week trial on 2/26/24 and that the HOA plans
to apply for a  trial continuance in the
instant case in next 2-3 weeks.  
 
At the 1/9/24, Mandatory Settlement Conference, pursuant
to oral stipulation, the Court advanced and vacated the 3/4/24 trial date and scheduled
a Trial Setting Conference for 1/16/24. 
As such, the HOA’s argument regarding the need for a trial continuance,
if the motion is granted, is moot.  The new
trial date should be scheduled for a date which allows a sufficient amount of
time for all defendants to challenge the new claims and conduct any additional
discovery they deem necessary.  The
pending appeal should also be considered in selecting the new trial date.    
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted.   
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to separately file the First
Amended Complaint which is attached to the motion as Exhibit 1.  
 