 Case Number:  23PSCV01616    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  H Chinn,
et al. v. Qi, Case No.
23PSCV01616


ORDER ON MOTION TO VACATE ARBITRATION ORDER AND
LIFT STAY
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Yong Qi’s
Motion to Vacate Order Compelling Arbitration and to Lift Stay is DENIED for
lack of jurisdiction.
 
I.        Background 
Plaintiffs
Martin Chinn and Doreen K. Chiu (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: 
On or about October 8, 2022, Plaintiffs, as sellers, entered
into a written purchase agreement with Yong Qi (“Qi”), as buyer, for the sale
of real property known as 3438 Fionna Place, West Covina, CA 91792. Qi
subsequently sought to renegotiate the purchase price, which Plaintiffs
rejected. Following this rejection, Qi refused to deposit monies into escrow
and move forward with the sale. 
On
May 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Qi and Does 1-10 for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, (3) common count, and (4) intentional interference
with contractual relations. 
On
August 14, 2023, Qi filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against
Miranda Chen (“Chen”), APEC Enterprises, Inc. (“APEC”), and Roes 1-10 for (1)
negligence and (2) equitable indemnity in proportion to fault. 
On
January 24, 2024, Chen and APEC filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of
action against Qi and Does 1-10 for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) comparative
fault, (3) apportionment and contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. 
On
March 4, 2024, the Court granted Qi’s motion to compel arbitration; at that
time, the case was ordered stayed, pending completion of the arbitration. 
A
Status Conference Re: Arbitration is set for December 11, 2024. Pending before
the Court is Qi’s motion to vacate the Court’s order compelling arbitration and
to lift the stay. For the reasons set forth below, the motion is denied.
II.      Discussion
On December 12, 2023, Qi filed a “Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Court Action,” wherein he moved the Court for orders
compelling arbitration of all claims and causes of action between Plaintiffs
and himself and staying all
further
judicial proceedings in this action pending completion of arbitration. (Michel
Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) On March 4, 2024, Judge Peter Hernandez granted that
motion and ordered the case stayed, pending completion of the arbitration.
Qi now moves the Court for an order vacating the
March 4, 2024 order compelling Plaintiffs to arbitrate the claims and causes of
action raised in Plaintiffs’ complaint against Qi and to lift the stay in this
case; alternatively, Qi moves the Court for an order compelling arbitration of
all claims and causes of action between Qi, Chen, and APEC and staying this
case pending completion of such arbitration.
The Court denies the motion for lack of
jurisdiction. Once a motion to compel arbitration is granted and the case
is stayed, “the action at law sits in the twilight zone of abatement with the
trial court retaining merely vestigial jurisdiction over matters submitted to
arbitration.” (Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
29 Cal.App.4th 482, 487.) During the stay, “under its ‘vestigial’ jurisdiction,
a court may appoint arbitrators if the method selected by the parties fails (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.6); grant a provisional remedy ‘but only upon the ground
that the award to which an applicant may be entitled may be rendered
ineffectual without provisional relief’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.8, subd. (b));
and confirm, correct, or vacate the arbitration award (Code Civ. Proc., §
1285).” (Id.) However, “[a]bsent an agreement to withdraw the
controversy from arbitration . . . no other judicial act is authorized.”
(Id. [emphasis added].)
Here, the case has
been stayed pending the completion of arbitration and there is no agreement to
withdraw the controversy from arbitration. Accordingly, Qi’s motion is denied
for lack of jurisdiction.