  Case Number:  23PSCV00785    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff Continental Casualty Company’s
Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. Background 
Plaintiff Continental Casualty Company (“Plaintiff”) alleges that while
Defendant William Kellenberg (“Kellenberg”) was a guest at Springhill Suites by
Marriot in Arcadia, California, Kellenberg caused a fire when he smoked in bed
and left a candle unattended, resulting in extensive damage to the hotel, which
was insured by Plaintiff.
On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a
single cause of action of general negligence against Kellenberg and Does 1-10.
On May 9, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Kellenberg.
Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s Application for
Default Judgment.

Discussion
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is denied without
prejudice. The following defects are noted:
1.       On May 30,
2024, Judge Peter A. Hernandez denied Plaintiff’s prior application for default judgment without prejudice; in
doing so, the court noted, inter alia, that “Plaintiff has not provided any incident
and/or police reports and/or photographic evidence regarding the incident, nor
has it provided the court with any documentary evidence reflecting how damages
were calculated.” 
The unsigned “Incident Investigation Form” and photographs
attached as part of Exhibit C to the Declaration of Ryan Dillon appear to lack
authentication and do not mention William Kellenberg.
2.       The
Declaration of Alison K. Schlick (“Schlick”) regarding calculation of interest refers to a “Complaint filed date” of December 22,
2020. (See Schlick Decl., ¶ 3). Plaintiff’s complaint, however, was filed on
March 16, 2023. Plaintiff is directed to explain this discrepancy and the basis
for the December 22, 2020 start date. Additionally, Schlick has made references
to a “loan principal” and “loan principal balance,” which appear to be
typographical errors. (Id.)
3.       The Court is
in receipt of a proposed “Order to Accept Copies in Lieu of Originals.” However, the Court does not appear to be in possession of the
underlying request corresponding to this proposed order.
Accordingly, the Application for Default Judgment is denied
without prejudice and Plaintiff is directed to submit a revised default
judgment packet that addresses the aforementioned issues. 