 Case Number:  24PSCV01244    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  H Sandoval
v.  American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,
Case No. 24PSCV01244


ORDER
ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL


1.
      Plaintiff Dezarray Sandoval’s Motion
to Deem the Truth of Matters Specified in Requests for Admission, Admitted and
Conclusively Established is DENIED as MOOT, except as to the issue of
sanctions. Sanctions are awarded in the
reduced amount of $410.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of the
notice of ruling.
2.
      Plaintiff Dezarray Sandoval’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories Set One is GRANTED. Defendant is
ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set No. One, within 30 days from the date of the notice of
ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $410.00 and are payable
within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
3.
      Plaintiff Dezarray Sandoval’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories Set One is GRANTED. Defendant is
ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set No. One, within 30 days from the date of the notice of
ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $410.00 and are payable
within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
4.
      Plaintiff Dezarray Sandoval’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents Set One is GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set No. One, within 30 days from the date
of the notice of ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $410.00
and are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 
5.
      The hearing on Plaintiff Dezarray
Sandoval’s Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance of a Person Most Qualified
and Custodian of Records of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is
CONTINUED to January 10, 2025, at 9:30 a.m., so the parties can engage in a
good faith meet and confer in the interim.
 
I.        Background
Plaintiff
Dezarray Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Plaintiff entered into a warranty
contract with American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding a 2023
Honda Civic, VIN No. 2HGFE2F50PH549716 (the “subject vehicle”), that the
subject vehicle suffers from various defects, and that the subject vehicle has
not been repaired after a reasonable number of attempts. 
 
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting two causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act against
Defendant and Does 1-10.
 
Pending
before the Court are five discovery motions, where Plaintiff seeks (1) to have
certain matters be deemed admitted, (2) to compel responses to form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production, and (3)
to compel the deposition attendance of a person most qualified and custodian of
records.  
 
 
II.      Legal Standards
Responses
to requests for admission, interrogatories, and requests for production of
documents are due 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2033.250, subd.
(a), 2030.260, subd. (a), 2031.260, subd. (a).) If
timely responses are not served, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling responses or deeming matters admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2033.280, subd. (b), 2030.290, subd. (b), 2031.300,
subd. (b).)
As
to requests for admissions, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary
sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated [a] motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
As to interrogatories and requests for production of
documents, “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories [or a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
“If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230). 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, . . . a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection. . ., fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
“A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. . ., or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contracted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).) 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction. . ., unless the court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement providing all information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses at issue.
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a),(c).) 

III.     Discussion
A.
      Motion to Deem Requests for
Admissions Admitted
Plaintiff moves the Court for an order
that the truth of the matters specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions,
Set No. One, served on Defendant on June 7, 2024, be deemed admitted and
conclusively established.
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount
of $1,122.50. 
Plaintiff’s counsel Thach Tran (“Tran”) represents
as follows:

On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff served
Defendant with the subject discovery. (Tran Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.)[FN] Responses were initially due on or before July 9, 2024. (Id., ¶ 3). On
July 29, 2024, Defendant’s counsel reached out for an extension and to revive
their deadline. (Id., ¶ 4). On August 8, 2024, counsel spoke
telephonically, during which time Plaintiff’s counsel advised that Defendant’s
objections were waived and requested that responses be provided without
objections. (Id.) On August 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email
regarding the status of the responses; no response thereto was received. (Id.,
¶ 4, Exh. B.)
Defendant contends that the motion is moot because
it has now provided Plaintiff with Code-compliant, verified responses to the
subject discovery. (Hom Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) However, Defendant’s responses include
objections, which have been waived since the responses were untimely. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) Defendant appears to contend that it should
be relieved from waiver of its objections on the basis that the attorney
assigned to handle discovery on this case, Vanessa Dao (“Dao”), had an
undiagnosed medical condition that affected her ability to work.
First, it is unclear to the Court how blame for the
failure to provide timely responses may be shifted to Dao here. Dao attests
that “around the beginning of 2024, [she] began suffering from a previously
undiagnosed medical condition,” that “[d]ue to [her] condition, [she]. . .
mistakenly thought that discovery responses were served timely to Plaintiff’s
counsel,” that “[o]n or about May 30, 2024, [she] had a medical emergency that
rendered [her] unconscious” that she “subsequently resigned [her] position at
Clark Hill early June of 2024,” and that “[t]he failure to serve the discovery
responses timely is the result of [her] mistake.” (Dao Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.) The
problem with Dao’s declaration is that the subject discovery was served
on June 7, 2024, roughly around the time of Dao’s resignation from the firm in
“early June of 2024.” (Id., ¶ 5.) Responses to the discovery were not
due until July 2024, well after Dao had resigned.
Second, Defendant’s request for relief from any
waiver of objections is inappropriate in an opposition; instead, it must be
filed separately as a noticed motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
No such motion has been filed.
With that said, Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.280, subdivision (c) provides that “[t]he court shall make this order
[i.e., ‘that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted’], unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section
2033.220.” (Emphasis added).
“Subdivision (c) of section 2033.280 requires the
court to evaluate whether the proposed response to the requests for admission
substantially complies with section 2033.220. This suggests that the court
evaluate qualitatively the proposed response to RFAs in toto to determine
whether it substantially complies with the code. It does not permit the court
to segregate each individual RFA response for the purpose of finding that
portions of the document are code-compliant (and will therefore be accepted), while
concluding that other portions are noncompliant (and will thus be rejected).
Furthermore. . . there is an effective statutory vehicle by which a propounding
party may seek a court order compelling a responding party to cure individual
RFA responses deemed not to be in compliance with section 2033.220--namely, a
motion to compel further responses under section 2033.290. . .” (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 779-780 [quotation marks, italics and citation omitted].)
The
Court has reviewed Defendant’s responses to the subject discovery and
determines that they are substantially compliant in toto. Accordingly, the
instant motion is denied as moot, except as to the issue of sanctions.
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,122.50 [calculated
as follows: 0.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours reviewing opposition,
drafting reply and attending hearing at $425.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is
$410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee).
Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
          B.       Motion
to Compel Form Interrogatories

Plaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant
to provide verified responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories, Set No. One served on June 7, 2024. Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,122.50.
As stated in connection with the prior motion, Defendant
was served with the subject discovery on June 7, 2024 and did not provide
timely responses. (Tran Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Defendant argues that the motion is
moot because it has now provided Plaintiff with Code-compliant, verified
responses to the subject discovery. (Hom Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) However, Defendant’s
responses include objections, which have been waived since the responses were
untimely. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  Defendant asks to be relieved from waiver of
its objections on the basis of Dao’s undiagnosed medical condition.
The Court declines to entertain Defendant’s request for relief from any waiver of objections, inasmuch
as such relief must be requested via a separately noticed motion. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s motion is granted. Defendant is ordered
to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories,
Set No. One, within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,122.50 [calculated
as follows: 0.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours reviewing opposition,
drafting reply and attending hearing at $425.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is
$410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $350.00/hour, $60.00 filing fee).
Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
C.       Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories

Plaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant
to provide verified responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set No. One served on June 7, 2024. Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,122.50.
As stated above, Defendant was served with the
subject discovery on June 7, 2024 and did not provide timely responses. (Tran
Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Defendant argues that the motion is moot because it has now
provided Plaintiff with Code-compliant, verified responses to the subject
discovery. (Hom Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) However, Defendant’s responses include
objections, which have been waived since the responses were untimely. Defendant
asks to be relieved from waiver of its objections on the basis of Dao’s
undiagnosed medical condition.
The Court declines to entertain Defendant’s request for relief from any waiver of objections, inasmuch
as such relief must be requested via a separately noticed motion. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s motion is granted. Defendant is ordered
to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set No. One, within 30 days from the date of the notice of
ruling.
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record in the amount of $1,122.50 [calculated
as follows: 0.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours reviewing opposition,
drafting reply and attending hearing at $425.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is
$410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $350.00/hour, $60.00 filing fee).
Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling.

          D.      Motion to Compel Request for Production
of DocumentsPlaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant
to provide verified responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set No. One served on June 7, 2024. Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $1,122.50. 
As stated above, Defendant was served with the
subject discovery on June 7, 2024 and did not provide timely responses. (Tran
Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Defendant argues that the motion is moot because it has now
provided Plaintiff with Code-compliant, verified responses to the subject
discovery. (Hom Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) However, Defendant’s responses include
objections, which have been waived since the responses were untimely. Defendant
asks to be relieved from waiver of its objections on the basis of Dao’s undiagnosed
medical condition.
The Court declines to entertain Defendant’s request for relief from any waiver of objections, inasmuch
as such relief must be requested via a separately noticed motion. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff’s motion is granted. Defendant is ordered
to provide responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Request for Production
of Documents, Set No. One, within 30 days from the date of the notice of
ruling.  
Sanctions 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record in the amount of $1,122.50 [calculated
as follows: 0.5 hours preparing motion, plus 2 hours reviewing opposition,
drafting reply and attending hearing at $425.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee]. 
Utilizing
a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is
$410.00 (i.e., 1 hour attorney time at $350.00/hour, $60.00 filing fee).
Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of the notice of ruling. 
E.       Motion to Compel PMK Deposition 
Plaintiff
moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, for an order
compelling Defendant to produce a Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian of
Record (“PMK”) to be deposed. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant
and its counsel of record in the amount of $2,935.00. 
Plaintiff’s counsel Harita Nandivada (“Nandivada”)
represents, and/or the accompanying exhibits reflect, as follows:
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff
served Defendant with a “Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s Person(s) Most
Qualified and Custodian(s) of Record” (“Notice”), setting the deposition for
August 12, 2024; said Notice was comprised of 26 categories of matters for
examination and 17 document production requests. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 3, Exh.
A.) On August 6, 2024, Defendant served its “Objection to Plaintiff’s Notice of
Deposition of Defendant’s Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian(s) of Record”
(“Objection”); said Objection indicated, inter alia, that no witness would be
produced whatsoever for Examination Categories Nos. 11-25 and that no documents
would be produced whatsoever for Document Requests Nos. 9-17. (Id., ¶ 5,
Exh. B.) 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel, requesting
alternate dates for the deposition by August 12, 2024 and a response to the
letter by August 16, 2024. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s
office thereafter emailed Defendant’s counsel’s office to obtain alternative
deposition dates and sent Defendant’s counsel a video link to participate in
the deposition but was only told that no PMK would be appearing on that date. (Id.,
¶¶ 6-8, Exh. D). 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to properly
meet and confer. The Court agrees. Exhibit D to Nandivada’s declaration
reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel’s August 9, 2024 meet and confer
correspondence failed to address the substance of any of Defendant’s objections
made with respect to specific Examination Categories and Document Requests, as
is now set forth in Plaintiff’s 164-page separate statement. 
Accordingly, the Court will continue the hearing, to
January 10, 2025, at 9:30 a.m. The Court instructs the parties to engage in a
good faith meet and confer in the interim.
Plaintiff’s counsel is instructed to file and serve
a Joint Status Report, outlining the parties’ meet and confer efforts and
identifying what specific categories of requested testimony and document
requests remain in dispute, no later nine court days prior to the continued
hearing date. 

