 Case Number:  23STC11319    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  73 05/01/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
TIMOTHY KORTENKAMP v. ANTHEM BLUE
CROSS LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY, et al.
(23STCV11319)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Conal Doyle (Doyle Law, APC)
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party:  Karen Braje (Reed Smith, LLP)
 
demurrer to FIRST AMENDED complaint WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE (filed on 3/13/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer as to each of Plaintiffs’ causes
of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is moot as the FAC is subject to demurrer. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Timothy Kortenkamp (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. On
January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants
Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company (“Anthem”) and Elevance
Health, Inc. (“Elevance”) alleging the following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Negligence
C/A
2: Breach of Contract
C/A
3: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
C/A
4: Violation of Business & Professional Code §§ 17500
and 17200
 
The
FAC alleges the following. Anthem provides health insurance through medical
plans to members of the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System (“CalPERS”). (FAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff suffers from
migraines and he alleges that Anthem and Elevance improperly
denied his request for Vyepti, a migraine medication, under the terms of his
CalPERS sponsored PERS Choice Plan (“Plan”). (FAC, ¶ 5.)
 
On March 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer arguing each
of the FAC’s causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
·       The Court should
sustain the Demurrer to all of the causes of action because Plaintiff has failed
to exhaust his administrative remedies with CalPERS.
·       Plaintiffs
second and third causes of action fail because there can be no viable claim for
breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant in the absence of a
contract.
·       Plaintiff’s
UCL claim fails, because there are no facts pled to show that either defendant
engaged in unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct.
·       All of the claims against Elevance fail because there are no
allegations that Elevance has a relationship or engaged in any conduct with respect
to either Plaintiff or the Plan.
 
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Defendants’ demurrer arguing: 
·       Administrative
Exhaustion: Plaintiff has no contractual or statutory duty to exhaust
administrative remedies before suing Anthem and the express terms of the plan
do not require exhaustion prior to filing suit.
·       Contract/Joint
Venture Allegations: Demurrer should be overruled because Plaintiff has
adequately pled the elements of a joint venture. 
·       Breach of
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing: Demurrer should be overruled because
Anthem was a party to the contract through its joint venture with CalPERS and
Plaintiff has alleged in great detail that Anthem’s denial of his request for
Vyepti was unreasonable. 
·       Violation of
Business & Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500: Demurrer should be
overruled as Plaintiff has pled facts establishing a prima facie case. 
·       Elevance:
Elevance (formerly Anthem, Inc.) is liable because it created the medical
policy relied upon by Anthem in reaching the adverse coverage determination in
this case.
 
On April 24, 2024, Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff has failed to exhaust his administrative remedies with
CalPERS. Defendants also assert that each of the FAC’s causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
On March 14, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike for an
order striking the following from the FAC:
·      
References to punitive damages
o   The Court
should strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations and associated prayer
for relief, because he fails to plead facts to demonstrate that either
Defendants acted with malice, oppression or fraud
·      
References to class action allegations
o   The Court
should strike Plaintiff’s general references to “class” allegations from within
the claim for Violation of Business & Professions Code Sections 17200 and
17500 (“UCL”), because the Complaint is neither captioned nor pled as a class
action and, regardless, it does not include facts to show that any portion of
the case may be maintained on a class basis
·      
References to a claim for restitution
o  
The Court should strike Plaintiff’s claim for restitution from the
UCL, because there are no facts pled to state a viable claim for restitution
 
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Defendants’ motion to strike, arguing: 
Administrative
·       Punitive damages are warranted because Anthem subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of his rights under the Plan. Anthem knew that Plaintiff
was entitled under its own medical policy to try a medication which could have
helped alleviate his debilitating migraine headaches and its associated
symptoms-but denied his claim anyway. In doing so, Anthem showed no concern
that its decision would expose Plaintiff to significant health risks or
disadvantages.
·       Plaintiff
stipulates to strike the class action allegations contained in the First
Amended Complaint
·       Plaintiff’s
claim for restitution is warranted because Plaintiff’s joint venture
allegations establish that the Anthem Entities and CalPERS acted as a single
enterprise, and therefore, the Anthem Entities benefited from CalPERS’
ill-gotten gains.
 
On April 24, 2024, Defendants filed a reply maintaining that references to punitive damages and the claim for restitution
should be stricken from the FAC.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating the
parties met and conferred by telephone on March 11, 2024. (Braje Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
obligations to meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
C.     Failure to
Exhaust Administrative Remedies
 
Defendants argue that each of Plaintiff’s causes of action
should be dismissed because Plaintiff has failed to adequately plead that he
has exhausted his administrative remedies.  
 
The exhaustion doctrine has been applied in three situations:
(1) when a statute and lawful regulations pursuant thereto establish a
quasijudicial administrative tribunal to adjudicate statutory remedies, the
aggrieved party is generally required to initially resort to that tribunal and
to exhaust its appellate procedure; (2) when a private or public organization
has provided an internal remedy; and (3) courts have required “exhaustion of
‘external’ administrative remedies in a variety of public contexts.”  (Jonathan
Neil & Assoc., Inc. v. Jones (2004) 33 Cal.4th 917, 930–931.) The
fundamental rule of procedure “is that where an administrative remedy is
provided by statute, relief must be sought from the administrative body and
this remedy exhausted before the courts will act.” (Cnty. of L.A. v. Farmers Ins. Exch. (1982) 132 Cal. App. 3d 77, 85.) The “jurisdictional prerequisite to
review by the courts is the exhaustion of all administrative remedies
[Citation] ... ‘is not a matter of judicial discretion, but is a fundamental
rule of procedure ....’ ”. (Ibid.)
 
The failure to allege exhaustion of administrative remedies
or facts excusing the failure to exhaust renders the petition subject to
demurrer for failure to state a cause of action. (Stenocord Corp. v.
City & County of San Francisco, (1970) 2 Cal.3d 984, 990.)  A mere
allegation that petitioners have exhausted their administrative remedies has
been held to be conclusory and insufficient to survive demurrer. (Pan
Pacific Property v. County of Santa Cruz, (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 244, 251; Lund
v. Ca. State Employees Assn., (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 174, 182-83.)  
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff
failed to exhaust his administrative remedies because he was first required to
seek relief directly from CalPERS prior to filing this action. Anthem is
responsible for administering medical benefits under the Plan and evaluating
whether health care services are medically necessary, under contract with
CalPERS. When a claim for benefits is denied, a member has various appeal
rights in varying circumstances, including filing an appeal with Anthem.
If the member is not satisfied with Anthem's response, the member may appeal to
CalPERS. 
 
On December 6, 2022, Anthem denied Plaintiff’s request for Vyepti.
(FAC, ¶ 41.) Anthem set a peer-to-peer with Plaintiff’s provider to discuss the
denial. (FAC, ¶ 43.) Ultimately, Anthem upheld its decision. (FAC, ¶ 45.) In
February 2023, Plaintiff’s provider again requested that Anthem approve Vyepti
for Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Anthem denied the request after determining the
medication was not medically necessary for Plaintiff. (Id.) In March
2023, Plaintiff appealed Anthem’s denial and Anthem upheld the denial. (FAC, ¶
48.) Defendants contend that Plaintiff does not state any facts to show that he
exhausted his administrative remedies with CalPERS under the Plan. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that (1) he has no contractual or statutory duty to exhaust
administrative remedies before suing Anthem; and (2) the express terms of the
plan do not require exhaustion prior to filing suit. However, the Court does
not agree.
 
Plaintiff asserts that he had no duty to exhaust administrative
remedies before suing Anthem, and cites to Mintz v. Blue Cross of California
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594 in support. In Mintz, the court ruled on
whether Anthem Blue Cross (“Blue Cross”), as third-party administrator for
CalPERS, can be liable for negligence, even in the absence of privity of
contract. Plaintiff asserts that in Mintz, the plaintiff had not taken
advantage of the appeals process or independent external review before bringing
his suit. (Id. at 1601-1602.) However, Plaintiff’s reliance on Mintz
is unpersuasive as the Mintz court noted that a member has to exhaust the
Blue Cross and CalPERS appeal process before appealing to the courts. (Id.
at 1599.) Further, when plaintiff’s requested medical treatment was denied by
Blue Cross, he was not notified of his contractual and statutory rights to an
independent review of the decision. (Ibid.) On the other hand, here,
Plaintiff was on notice of his various appeal rights. The 2022 Evidence of Coverage (“EOC”)
attached to the FAC states the process to appeal to CalPERS. (FAC, Ex. B, p.
83.) Therefore, the court does not find Plaintiff’s reliance on Mintz persuasive
here. Plaintiff does not provide any support that he was not required to exhaust
the CalPERS appeal process before bringing his claim.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the express terms of the plan do not
require exhaustion prior to filing suit. 
Plaintiff asserts that the word “may” in the EOC indicates that
appealing is an option, but not a requirement. For example, the EOC states “If
you remain dissatisfied after exhausting the Internal Review process for
benefit decisions and the independent External Review in cases involving
Medical Judgment, you and/or your Authorized Representative may submit a
request for CalPERS Administrative Review.” (FAC, Ex. B, p. 82.) However, the
Court finds that the use of the word “may” in this context indicates that
members have the option of challenging the denial or foregoing the appeal. The
language of the EOC does not indicate that members may forego the appeal to file
a civil action instead. The EOC specifically states “You may not begin civil
legal remedies until after exhausting these administrative procedures.” (FAC,
Ex. B, p. 83.) Thus, the Court finds the express language in the EOC supports
Defendants contention that Plaintiff was required to exhaust CalPER’s administrative
remedies before filing this suit.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is GRANTED as to the entire FAC with
leave to amend because Plaintiff has failed to adequately plead that he
has exhausted his administrative remedies. Since
the demurrer is granted as to each of Plaintiff’s causes of action, the Court
does not discuss the other arguments in the demurrer and Defendants’ motion to
strike is moot. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’ demurrer as to each of Plaintiff’s causes
of action in the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is MOOT as the FAC is
subject to demurrer.
 