 Case Number:  23STC08523    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  73 05/01/2024
Dept. 73
Judge Rolf M. Treu
 
DENNYS RENE RIVAS-WILLIAMS v. A &
A GRANITE MARBLE, et al. (23STCV08523)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:             Raphael Metzger (Metzger Law Group),
Alan Brayton (Brayton Purcell LLP)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/moving party:          (1) Patrick
Foley (Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP) for Specially Appearing
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
(2) Michael
Romey (Latham & Watkins LLP) for Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza
LLC
(3) Shane
Coons (Shane E. Coons, A Professional Law Corp.) for Specially Appearing
Defendant Guidoni USA Inc.
 
(1)   MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION (filed
10/13/2023) by Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. 
 
(2)   MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION (filed 12/04/2023) by Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC
 
(3)   MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE FOR LACK OF PERSONAL
JURISDICTION (filed 1/05/2024) by Specially Appearing Defendant Guidoni USA Inc.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant
Cosentino’s motion to quash due to improper service. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Stylenquaza LLC’s motion to
quash for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Guidoni USA Inc.’s motion to
quash for lack of personal jurisdiction.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request for jurisdictional discovery.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Dennys Rene Rivas-Williams
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Cosentino Group, S.A.
(“Cosentino”), Stylenquaza LLC (Stylenquaza”), Guidoni USA Inc. (“Guidoni”) and
80 other named defendants. 
 
On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for (1) Negligence, (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect, (3)
Strict Liability – Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment and (5) Breach of
Implied Warranties. The FAC alleges that from April 2015 to 2022,
Plaintiff worked with stone products that were manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by all named Defendants. (FAC, ¶¶
118-120.) As a result of working with the stone products,
Plaintiff alleges he developed silicosis and other related injuries. (FAC, ¶¶
120-122.)
 
A.     Cosentino’s
Motion to Quash
 
On October 13, 2023, Cosentino filed its
instant motion to quash, arguing:
·       Plaintiff did not properly serve Cosentino
o   Plaintiff’s
Attempted Personal Service in Canada Is Invalid
§  If Plaintiff
wanted to serve Cosentino Group pursuant to article 10, subdivision (b) of the
Hague Service Convention, he would have needed to serve Cosentino Group in “the
State of destination” through “competent persons of the State of
destination”—Spain.
o   Plaintiff’s
Attempted Service by Federal Express Is Invalid
§  “Provided the
State of destination does not object,” the Hague Service Convention does not
interfere with “the freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels,
directly to persons abroad[.]” (Hague Service Convention, art. 10, subd. (a).)
Therefore, the validity of Plaintiff’s service by Federal Express must come
from California law.
§  Plaintiff
contends service via Federal Express complies with Code of Civil Procedure
section 415.40. However, there is no “evidence that … the mailing[] required a
return receipt.”
§  Plaintiff
relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10, subdivision (c), “which
permits service of summons outside of the United States: ‘if the court before
or after service finds that the service is reasonably calculated to give actual
notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served….’”
(Inversiones Papaluchi, at p. 1067, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10, subd.
(c).) “Section 413.10, subdivision (c), does not affirmatively authorize
service by mail, let alone by Federal Express.” (Inversiones Papaluchi, at p.
1067.)
·       Even if
Plaintiff properly served Cosentino, the
Court lacks jurisdiction over Cosentino
o   There is no basis for general jurisdiction
§  California is
not Cosentino Group’s place of incorporation or its principal place of
business, and it does not have any continuous and systematic contacts with
California 
o   There is no basis for specific jurisdiction because:
§  The purposeful availment requirement is not satisfied
·       Cosentino
Group has never conducted any business in California and it does not develop,
design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or market any products. (Vela
Decl. ¶¶ 5–6.)
§  Plaintiff’s
claims could not possibly arise out of or relate to Cosentino’s nonexistent
contacts with California 
o   Jurisdiction
Over Cosentino Group Cannot Be Based on C & C’s Contacts with California
§  C & C is
a subsidiary of Cosentino Group. Cosentino Group and C & C are separate and
independent corporate entities. (Vela Decl. ¶ 8.) Cosentino Group does not
manage or control the day-to-day operations of C & C. (Ibid.) C & C
keeps its own separate bank accounts and business records, and C & C pays
and manages its own employees. (Ibid.) Accordingly, as a matter of law,
Cosentino Group’s purported control over C & C is not “so pervasive and
continual to require [C & C]’s contacts with California to be imputed to
it[.]” (Strasner, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 224.)
o   Because
Plaintiff cannot meet his threshold burden of demonstrating facts justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction, the Court “need not” and should not “consider
whether the exercise of jurisdiction over [Cosentino Group] would comport with
fair play and substantial justice. (LG Chem, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 348, 372 (Lawhon).)
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       Plaintiff properly served Cosentino
o   The Hague Convention does not apply because Edward Cosentino was
personally served on behalf of
Cosentino at a Cosentino event in Canada, in compliance with the laws of
California, Canada, and British Columbia, in a manner that satisfies
constitutional due process requirements.
§  The
Convention applies when the law of the state of origin (i.e., the forum state)
requires the transmittal of documents abroad to effect service. Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Schlunk, supra, 486 U.S. at 707 [“The only transmittal to
which the Convention applies is a transmittal abroad that is required as a
necessary part of service.”] California law does not require transmittal of
documents abroad to serve a corporation. C.C.P. § 416.10. Thus, the Convention
does not apply.
o   Even if the
Hague Convention applied, it does not require service in the “state of
domicile” (the country where the foreign corporation is incorporated); the
Hague Convention only requires service of a corporation in compliance with the
laws of the “state of origin” (the country where the action is filed) and the
“state of destination” (the country where service is effected). See Glossary of
Practical Handbook on the operation of the Service Convention (Exhibit “E” to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice).
o   Cosentino was
served in compliance with California’s requirements for service of process
§  Code of Civil
Procedure § 413.10 is the statute in California that applies to service “on a
person” - not a corporation. Service on a corporation is governed by Code of
Civil Procedure § 416.10, which does not contain any language geographically
limiting where a corporation may be served
·       Plaintiff is
seeking jurisdictional discovery
o   Through
Cosentino’s website and other publicly available information, Plaintiff has
found much evidence that it desires to submit in opposition to Cosentino’s
motion. However, most of the evidence that Plaintiff has found is not
admissible. Plaintiff has therefore propounded jurisdictional discovery to
Cosentino to authenticate the documents that Plaintiff has already obtained and
to obtain additional evidence to submit to the Court in admissible form to
oppose Cosentino’s motion.
·       The Court has specific jurisdiction over Cosentino because:
o   Cosentino has purposefully availed itself
§  Cosentino
claims that it is not doing business in Los Angeles - that its subsidiary C
& C North America is. However, it is Cosentino’s name, word mark, trade
names and trademarks that appear on Cosentino City Los Angeles - not the name
of C & C North America
§  Cosentino
engages in significant business activity in the State of California, notably
including Los Angeles County
§  There is no
dispute that materials marketed by Cosentino in the State of California are the
very same products that are alleged to have caused Plaintiff’s injury, thus
forging a direct connection between Cosentino’s business activities in this
state and the matters at issue in this litigation
o   Cosentino’s argument that it is a mere holding website is contrary to the
evidence and its website
§  In support of
its motion to quash, Cosentino Group submitted a declaration of Jorge Cuervo
Vela, Vice President Legal and Compliance at Cosentino Group, who declared, in
¶ 6, that “Cosentino Group is a holding company” that “does not develop,
design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or market any products.”
§  However,
Cosentino’s own website and its promotional materials belie the assertion that
the Cosentino Group is a mere “holding company”
 
In reply, Cosentino argues: 
·       Plaintiff did not properly serve Cosentino
·       The exercise of personal jurisdiction over Cosentino would violate due
process
o   Cosentino is a holding company and has had no purposeful contact with
California
o   Plaintiff’s
evidence is inadmissible. Cosentino Group does not own, maintain, or control
the website www.cosentino.com (Vela Reply Decl. ¶ 4), where most of plaintiff’s
purported evidence comes from
o   Plaintiff has
not demonstrated any basis for imputing C&C’s contacts to Cosentino. No
evidence of Cosentino control over C&C
·       Plaintiff is not entitled to jurisdictional discovery
o   Plaintiff
claims he needs jurisdictional discovery primarily for the “purpose of
authenticating and establishing the admissibility of the evidence” he submitted
in opposition to Cosentino Group’s motion to quash—printouts from
www.cosentino.com. Plaintiff cannot get that discovery from Cosentino Group
because it is undisputed Cosentino Group does not own, maintain, or control the
website www.cosentino.com. (Vela Reply Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
B.     Stylenquaza’s
Motion to Quash
 
On December 4, 2023, Stylenquaza filed its
instant motion to quash, arguing:
·       
The Court lacks general jurisdiction
over Stylenquaza because it is a Texas limited liability company with its principal
place of business in Dallas, Texas. None of Stylenquaza’s owners are California
residents.  
·       
The Court also lacks specific
jurisdiction because:
o   Stylenquaza did not purposefully avail itself to California’s
benefits. 
§  Stylenquaza has extremely limited contact with California. Stylenquaza’s shipment of slabs to California amounted to less
than 0.001 percent of all the square footage of product Stylenquaza has ever
distributed. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8.
§  Stylenquaza
has never been licensed to do business in California, it has no physical
presence in California, nor does it advertise in any media directed at
California. Id. ¶¶ 12-14, 16-18, 21
o   The controversy is neither related to nor arises out of Stylenquaza’s contacts
with the forum. 
§  Plaintiff
makes no attempt to allege any connection between Stylenquaza’s rare contacts
with California and the causes of actions.
o   The traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice favor Stylenquaza
§  First, the
inconvenience of litigating in a foreign state would clearly weigh heavily on
Stylenquaza. Stylenquaza’s primary operation is nowhere close to California.
Nguyen Decl. ¶ 5.
§  Second, it is
difficult to see how California has an interest in adjudicating a case against
an out-of-state company without offices, agents, or any meaningful business in
California.
§  Finally, the
extent to which Plaintiff’s causes of action arose out of Stylenquaza’s local
activities is extremely attenuated. Virtually all of Stylenquaza’s products
were sent to states that are nowhere close to California. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 5. The
22 total slabs Stylenquaza has ever supplied to California is less than 0.001
percent of all the square footage of product Stylenquaza has distributed in its
business. Id.
 
On April 5, 2024, Stylenquaza filed a supplemental brief in
support of its Motion to Quash, arguing:
·       On March 20,
2024, Plaintiff took the deposition of Mr. Nguyen, the person most
knowledgeable of Stylenquaza.
·       Mr. Nguyen
testified that: Stylenquaza does not sell products to California (other than
the rare instances Stylenquaza has disclosed) (Teresi Decl. ISO Stylenquaza’s
Suppl. Reply Br. ISO Stylenquaza’s Mot. to Quash, Ex. 4 (“Tr.”) at
116:2-117:6); Stylenquaza does not service or actively communicate with
customers outside its service boundaries (Tr. 85:16-88:11); Stylenquaza’s
“sale[s] team do[es] not travel to California for sales” (Tr. 53:25-54:22);
Stylenquaza does not have a California warehouse or distribution center (Tr.
91:18-92:9); and Stylenquaza does not warranty any products sold in California
that it did not sell. Tr. 71:3-72:2, 79:25-80:9, 84:7-19. Instead, when
customers outside Stylenquaza’s distribution range (i.e., California) reach
out, Stylenquaza’s “protocol” is to “refer them to Google their local
distributor.” (Tr. 89:11-90:6.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues:
·       The Court has specific jurisdiction over Stylenquaza because:
o   Stylenquaza has a website that specifically
directs customers to Stylenquaza’s authorized sales agents in California
§  according to
its website, Stylenquaza designated Integrated Resources Group, Inc. as its
regional distributor for Northern California (at 3 locations) and Architectural
Surfaces Company as its regional distributor for Southern California (at 2
locations including one in Los Angeles County)
§  In Snowney v.
Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, the California Supreme
Court held that an out-of-state company that directs prospective purchasers of
its products to others from whom its products may be purchased in California,
it purposefully avails itself of the privilege of doing business in this state
and is therefore subject to personal jurisdiction regarding the products
§  Stylenquaza
claims that the website that lists its authorized distributors in California is
the website of its parent company, Vicostone Joint Stock Company, the
Vietnamese company. 
·       However, the
URL of the website is us.vicostone.com and it contains pages headed “Vicostone
USA.”. According to the Declaration of Stylenquaza’s manager, An Nguyen,
“Stylenquaza does business under the name ‘Vicostone USA.’”
·       According to
distribution contracts produced to Plaintiff by Stylenquaza, Plaintiff asserts
Stylenquaza is Vicostone JSC’s authorized distributor in the USA
o   Stylenquaza has also shipped products to California on several occasions 
§  Mr. Nguyen
admits that Stylenquaza sent repeated shipments of artificial stone slabs (the
injury-causing product) directly to California in six separate shipments 
§  Stylenquaza
also admits that between 2018 and 2022 it distributed pre-fabricated tops
“directly to California,” it argues that these tops “are ready to be installed
without any further fabrication and thus are not the allegedlyhazardous
dust-producing products at issue in this lawsuit.” However, even pre-fabricated
countertops have to be polished upon installation, which creates fine
respirable crystalline silica dust, and pre-fabricated countertops are often
“edged” with a powered grinding tool to yield an edge that matches other stone
surfaces installed as kitchen countertops.
·       Jurisdictional discovery should be ordered to obtain additional evidence of Stylenquaza’s contacts with the
State of California and to determine whether Stylenquaza’s shipments to
California are actually “rare” and “insubstantial.”
o   Jurisdictional
discovery needs to be obtained to ascertain exactly what sales, distribution
and economic activity Stylenquaza has had in California and whether the 22
artificial stone slabs that Stylenquaza shipped to Pental in California were
shipped to locations that supplied the product to Plaintiff’s employer that
Plaintiff fabricated and caused his silicosis.
 
In reply, Stylenquaza argues: 
·      
Plaintiff did not establish that
Stylenquaza purposefully availed itself of California’s benefits
o   Stylenquaza
does not own, operate, or maintain the website us.vicostone.com, and Plaintiff
therefore cannot establish personal jurisdiction over Stylenquaza through that
website
§  Plaintiff states without support that Vicostone JSC is Stylenquaza’s
parent company. That statement is incorrect
§  Mr. Nguyen’s
declaration establishes that Vicostone JSC operates this website, and that
Stylenquaza does not provide products to the California distribution centers
listed on Vicostone JSC’s website. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21
o   Regarding the
small quantity of pre-fabricated tops, Stylenquaza’s “[p]re-fabricated tops are
ready to be installed . . . and thus are not . . . dustproducing products” that
could have allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injuries. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8. Yet
Plaintiff apparently claims that pre-fabricated tops have to be polished and
edged, which creates “fine respirable crystalline silica dust[.]” Opp. at
11:19-21. Plaintiff provides no competent evidentiary support for this
statement.
o   Regarding the
22 stone slabs, they equate to only approximately 0.001% of product Stylenquaza
has ever distributed.11 See Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8. Such minute and attenuated
contact is insufficient to establish purposeful availment. Malone v. Equitas
Reinsurance Ltd., 84 Cal. App. 4th 1430, 1437 (2000), as modified (Nov. 27,
2000) (citing Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U.S. 462, 471-75 (1985))
(defendant cannot “be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’
‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts”).
o   Regarding
Stylenquaza’s distribution contract that establishes that Stylenquaza
distributes Vicostone products to the US is irrelevant to Stylenquaza’s
contacts specifically with California
·      
Plaintiff fails to establish his causes of action arose out of or
related to Stylenquaza’s contacts with California 
o   Plaintiff has
not offered any evidence that either the pre-fabricated tops or the shipments
of 12 total stone slabs caused Plaintiff’s injuries.
o   Stylenquaza
does not systematically serve a market in the forum state. Stylenquaza does not
advertise or market stone slabs in California, and it does not foster ongoing
connections to the end users of the slabs it sells
·      
Plaintiff did not address Stylenquaza’s argument that the traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice favor Stylenquaza. Thus, Plaintiff waived this argument.
o   The witnesses
and evidence in this case against Stylenquaza, with the sole exception of
Plaintiff, are located outside of California. Stylenquaza has no office,
inventory, or other physical presence in California and is not even licensed to
do business in California. Nguyen Decl. ¶¶ 13-19
·      
Plaintiff’s request for further jurisdictional discovery should be
denied
o   Stylenquaza
has already responded to the written discovery Plaintiff identified and served.
Plaintiff does not identify what jurisdictional facts any further discovery is
expected to reveal
 
C.     Guidoni’s Motion
to Quash
 
On January 5, 2024, Guidoni filed its
instant motion to quash, arguing:
·       
The Court lacks general jurisdiction
over Guidoni because it is a Georgia limited liability company with its principal
place of business in Georgia. Guidoni’s only physical place of business is in
Georgia.  
·       
The Court lacks jurisdiction because:
o  
Guidoni has no relationship and no minimum contacts with the State
of California to support Plaintiff’s assertion of jurisdiction over it,
including that Guidoni (1) does not have an appointed agent to accept service
of process in the State of California; (2) does not do business in the State of
California; and (3) does not own, use, or possess property in the State of
California.
o  
Guidoni has not purposefully directed any activity towards
California, including that it (1) does not acquire any stone products from
California; (2) does not market its sales to California; (3) does not do
installation or other work in California; and (4) does not maintain any
physical presence in California whatsoever.
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
“‘California’s long-arm statute
authorizes California courts to exercise jurisdiction on any basis not
inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of
California.’” (Luberski, Inc. v. Oleificio F.LLI Amato S.R.L. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 409, 413.) 
 
“A motion to quash service of summons
permits a defendant to challenge personal jurisdiction where the summons is
improper or the statutory requirements for service of process are not
fulfilled.” (Stancil v. Superior Court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381, 402; Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1) [“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion… To quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her”].) 
 
“The party seeking to establish
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant bears the burden of demonstrating by
a preponderance of the evidence that the exercise of jurisdiction is
appropriate.” (Bresler v. Stavros (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 365, 367; see
also Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449 [“When a
defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction. Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are
established, however, it becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable”].)  
 
“‘[A] plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts,
through affidavits and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the
court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate’ and
‘cannot rely on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory
assertions of ultimate facts.’ [Citations.]” (Swenberg v. Dmarcian, Inc.
(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 280, 291.) “If the plaintiff meets this burden, the
burden shifts to the defendant to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (Ibid.) 
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
request for judicial notice of the following:
·      
Rule 4-3 (Personal Service), subdivision (2) of the Supreme Court
Civil Rules of British Columbia Reg 168/2009;
·      
Order in Cosentino Group, S.A. v. Superior Court
(Solano-Claustro), Appeal No. B333938 (Division Four), filed January 3, 2024; 
·      
Order in Cosentino Group, S.A. v. Superior Court (Reyes-Gonzalez),
Appeal No. B334019 (Division Seven), filed January 10, 2024
·      
Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial
Documents In Civil Or Commercial Matters (the “Hague Convention”); 
·      
Canada - Central Authority & practical information; 
·      
United States - Central Authority & practical information; 
·      
Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook on the Operation of the
Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private International
Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 regarding “Place of service as determining
factor;”
·      
Page XL of the Glossary of the Practical Handbook on the Operation
of the Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private
International Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 defining State of destination as
“the State where service is, or will be, effected.”
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s requests for
judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(f); § 453.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿ 
 
C.     Evidentiary
Objections
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
objections to Cosentino’s evidence. The Court rules on those objections as
follows.
 
Objections to the declaration of Jorge
Cuervo Vela
·                 
Overruled: Objection Nos. 1-4
 
On February 5, 2024, Cosentino filed
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. The Court rules on those objections as
follows.
 
Objections to the exhibits attached to
the declaration of Raphael Metzger
·                 
 Sustained:  Objection
Nos. 1-19, 21
(lacks foundation and authentication)
·                 
Overruled: Objection No. 20
 
On February 23, 2024, Stylenquaza
filed objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. The Court rules on those objections
as follows.  
 
Objections to the declaration of
Raphael Metzger
·                 
 Sustained:  ¶¶
6, 7, 8, 14,
16, 18, 20 (lacks foundation), 21-22 (speculation, improper legal conclusion)
 
D.     Whether Service
of Summons on Cosentino was Proper
 
The Court notes that Stylenquaza does not argue in its motion that
service of summons was invalid. However, Cosentino argues Plaintiff’s service
of summons on Cosentino was not proper. 
 
As a threshold matter, “compliance with the statutory
procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1426, 1444.) “The notice requirement is not satisfied by actual knowledge of
the action without service conforming to the statutory requirements, which are
to be strictly construed.” (Taylor-Rush v. Multitech Corp. (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 103, 111.) Where there is a defective notice, no jurisdiction is
acquired. (Ibid. [“Due to the defective service on [a nonresident
corporate officer], no jurisdiction was acquired over him”].) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure “section 416.10 permits service on a
corporation that is not a bank by way of service on an individual or entity
designated as an agent for service of process (§ 416.10, subd. (a));
service on one of the 11 officers or managers of the corporation
specified in section 416.10, subdivision (b); service on a person authorized by the corporation to receive service (§ 416.10, subd. (c)); or service in a manner authorized by
the Corporations Code (§ 416.10, subd. (d)).” (Ramos v. Homeward Residential,
Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1441; Corp. Code, §§ 1701 [delivery to
agent or corporate agent], 1702 [service upon secretary of state pursuant to
court order], 2110 [concerning foreign defendants], or 2111 [service upon
secretary of state pursuant to court order if agent cannot be found].)  
 
CCP § 413.10, subdivision (c) states “[e]xcept as
otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall be served on a person: . . .
Outside the United States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the
court in which the action is pending, or, if the court before or after service
finds that the service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as
prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served or as directed by
the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory. These rules are subject
to the provisions of the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).”  Spain is a signatory to the Hague Service Convention. 
(Convention Done at the Hague November 15, 1965; (Feb. 10, 1969) 20 U.S.T. 361,
T.I.A.S. No. 6638.)
 
Cosentino is
a Spanish company headquartered in Spain and contends that Plaintiff did not
comply with the Hague Service Convention because Plaintiff first tried to
personally serve an officer while he was visiting Canada and Plaintiff’s second
attempt via Federal Express was not valid service under California law. 
 
“The Hague
Service Convention states each signatory nation shall designate a central
authority through which service of process may be effected. (Hague Convention,
art. 2.) That authority receives documents and serves them in accordance with
either the internal law of the receiving state or a compatible method requested
by the sender. The authority then provides the sender with a certificate of
service. (Hague Convention, arts. 5, 6.)” (Kott v. Superior Court¿(1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1134.)   
 
“Failure to
properly serve a party who resides outside the country under the Hague Service
Convention renders all subsequent proceedings void as to that person.
[Citation] This is true even when the party indisputably had notice of the
action.”  (In re Alyssa F. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 846, 852.) 
“Failure to comply with the Hague Service Convention procedures voids the
service even though it was made in compliance with California law. . . .” (Kott
v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136 (Kott).) 
“In cases governed by the Hague Service Convention, service by mail is
permissible if two conditions are met: first, the receiving state has not
objected to service by mail; and second, service by mail is authorized under
otherwise-applicable law.” (Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v. Superior Court
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1065-66 (Inversiones).) The validity of a
service method “must come from California law.” (Id. at 1066 [referring
to service by Federal Express.]) 
 
As an initial
matter, the Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s arguments that the Hague
Service Convention does not apply. Plaintiff provided no authority supporting his
position that CCP § 413.10 does not apply to corporate entities and that CCP §
416.10 allows for service of a corporate entity without geographic restriction.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s argument that the documents were not transmitted to
Canada because they were printed there is not well taken. As the case authority
indicates, transmittal occurs unless service of process occurs within
the United States – such as on a domestic agent. (See e.g., Yamaha Motor
Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264.) 
 
Here, the Court
agrees with Cosentino that service did not comply with the Hague Service
Convention. First, Plaintiff’s authority does not support his position that
personal service on Mr. Cosentino in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
complied with the Hague Service Convention. Plaintiff’s reliance on Supreme
Court Civil Rules of British Columbia Reg 168/2009 Rule 4-3 is not enough to
indicate compliance. Plaintiff contends Mr. Cosentino is an officer of
Cosentino Group and was in Vancouver, British Columbia for official business of
Cosentino Group by attending a ribbon cutting ceremony where he was personally
served. Rule 4-3 provides that “if the chief place of business of the
corporation is outside British Columbia, every person who, within British Columbia,
transacts or carries on any of the business of, or any business for, that
corporation is deemed to be an agent of the corporation” and that service on a
corporation may be effected “by leaving a copy of the document with the
president, chair, mayor or other chief officer of the corporation.” (Rule
4-3(2)(b)(i).) Similarly, Canada’s Central Authority and practical information
concerning the Hague Service Convention indicate that personal service on a
corporation occurs “by handing a copy of the document to the individual, or to
an officer, director or agent of the corporation at its place of business.” (Plaintiff’s
RJN Hague Documents, Exhibit B pp. 2-3.) However, it is unclear whether Rule
4-3 applies to international corporation when it refers to corporations
“outside British Columbia” or to corporations that are Canadian from other
provinces. It is also unclear whether the “place of business” indicated in the
Canadian Hague Certificate applies to a ribbon cutting ceremony. Plaintiff has
provided rules, but no authority explaining how those rules have been applied
to comparable situations. 
 
Additionally,
Denlinger v. Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396 (Denlinger),
Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264 (Yamaha),
and Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154 (Lebel) do not
support Plaintiff’s position that either the Hague Service Convention does not
apply or that service in Canada was proper. Denlinger concerns service
by mail of a foreign corporation in its home country. That case does not apply
here because mail service is not at issue – personal service in Canada is. Yamaha
concerns service of a foreign corporation via its “general manager in this
state” (i.e., in California). Again, this case does not apply here because
Plaintiff did not serve Mr. Cosentino in California, but in Canada. Finally, Lebel
concerns whether the Hague Service Convention applied (it did) when the
plaintiff knew the defendant resided in England but attempted to serve his
mother (as a purported agent) in California. Lebel does not apply here,
either, because the purported service was effected in California, not in
Canada. In sum, Plaintiff provided no authority that personal service in Canada
was effective.
 
Second,
Plaintiff does not contend that he ever transmitted the summons and complaint
to Spain’s central authority, under Article 6 of the Hague Service Convention,
for service on Cosentino.
 
Third,
California does not allow service of the summons and complaint by Federal
Express. In Inversiones, the Plaintiff served a Columbian defendant by
Federal Express and via email. (Inversiones, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th
at 1061.) The court found that Federal Express service did not comply with the
Hague Service Convention because “service by Federal Express did not constitute
valid service of process under California law.” (Id. at 1067.) As in Inversiones,
here, Spain does not object to service by mail and Plaintiff attempted to serve
Cosentino by Federal Express at its corporate headquarters in Spain. Thus,
service did not comply with the Hague Service Convention and is therefore
invalid.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Cosentino’s motion to
quash due to improper service. Thus, the Court declines to address the parties’
arguments as to whether it has personal jurisdiction over Cosentino as moot. 
 
E.    
Whether Specific Jurisdiction over Stylenquaza is Proper
 
“California courts may exercise
personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with the Constitutions of California
and the United States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.)” (Pavlovich v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268 (“Pavlovich”).) “The exercise of
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions ‘if
the defendant has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate “‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.’”’ [Citations.]” (Ibid.) 
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either
general or specific.” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at pp.
268-269.) 
 
“A defendant that has substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with the forum state is subject to general
jurisdiction in the state, meaning jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167 (“HealthMarkets”).) 
 
“Absent such extensive contacts, a
defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction, meaning jurisdiction in an
action arising out of or related to the defendant’s contacts with the forum
state.” (HealthMarkets, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1167.) (Ibid.)
“A nonresident defendant is subject to specific personal jurisdiction only if
(1) the defendant purposefully availed itself of the benefits of conducting
activities in the forum state; (2) the controversy arises out of or is related
to the defendant’s forum contacts; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would
be fair and reasonable.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, the parties dispute whether the Court can exercise
specific (not general) personal jurisdiction over Defendant Stylenquaza.   
 
To show that Stylenquaza had sufficient minimum contacts with
California, Plaintiff submits the declaration of Raphael Metzger, Plaintiff’s
counsel in this action. (Metzger Decl., ¶ 3.)  
 
Plaintiff
argues Stylenquaza purposefully availed itself of the benefits of doing
business in California through its website. Plaintiff contends that Stylenquaza
has a website – us.vicostone.com – that lists regional distributors for the
company, which includes regional distributors in California. Plaintiff argues
that “[b]y formally designating these companies as its Regional Distributors in
California, Stylenquaza has affirmatively directed sales of its products to
California, thereby establishing limited jurisdiction in this case.” (Oppos.,
p. 6.) Further, Plaintiff asserts that according to its website, Stylenquaza
designated Integrated Resources Group, Inc. as its regional distributor for
Northern California (at 3 locations) and Architectural Surfaces Company as its
regional distributor for Southern California (at 2 locations including one in
Los Angeles County). 
 
However, as
argued in the moving papers and reply, the website – us.vicostone.com – is not
Stylenquaza’s website. The evidence shows that the relationship between
Vicostone JCS, who owns and operates this website, and Stylenquaza, is that
Stylenquaza is a distributor to the States of Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas,
Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana,
Wisconsin, Michigan, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
and Georgia. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 5.) Importantly, Stylenquaza does not provide
products to the California distribution centers listed on Vicostone JCS’s
website. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21.) Thus, there is no evidence of any website owned
or controlled by Stylenquaza that could serve as a basis for specific personal
jurisdiction. Further, while Plaintiff’s opposition references distribution
contracts that he asserts indicate Stylenquaza is Vicostone JSC’s direct
distributor, the evidence shows that California is not part of Stylenquaza’s
distribution area. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Next,
Plaintiff cites to the declaration of Stylenquaza’s manager, An Nguyen, in
support of his assertion that since Stylenquaza shipped 22 Vicostone artificial
stone slabs to California, which is the product that caused Plaintiff’s
silicosis in this case, Stylenquaza has purposefully availed itself to
California. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
However,
according to Nguyen’s declaration, Stylenquaza asserts that the 22 total stone
slabs it delivered to California equates to approximately 0.001% of product
Stylenquaza has ever distributed. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 8.) Specific personal
jurisdiction is proper only “where the defendant ‘deliberately’ has engaged in
significant activities within a State, or has created ‘continuing obligations’
between himself and residents of the forum[.]” (Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 475-76.) Here, there was only a limited and
minimal contact with the forum state – an insignificant amount for purposes of
contact. (See Thurston v. Fairfield Collectibles of Georgia, LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 1231, [finding that the evidence showed that the defendant made
“some 8 to 10 percent of its sales to Californians” making its website “the
equivalent of a physical store in California”].) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff
failed to meet his burden of establishing the first two requirements for
specific jurisdiction and the Court need not address whether exercise of
jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Stylenquaza’s motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction.
 
F.     
Whether Jurisdiction over Guidoni is Proper
 
Plaintiff
has the burden of establishing that the Court has jurisdiction over Guidoni. “The
party seeking to establish jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant bears the
burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that the exercise of
jurisdiction is appropriate.” (Bresler v. Stavros (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d
365, 367.) Here, Plaintiff did not file an opposition in response to Guidoni’s
motion. Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to carry his burden.
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Guidoni’s motion to quash for lack of jurisdiction.
 
G.   
Plaintiff’s Request for Jurisdictional Discovery 
 
A plaintiff
attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is entitled to
an opportunity to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts necessary to
sustain its burden of proof.” (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) “In order to prevail on a motion for a
continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that
discovery is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not demonstrated that discovery would likely lead to the
production of evidence of facts establishing proper summons over Cosentino or
jurisdiction over Stylenquaza. While Plaintiff argues jurisdictional
discovery should be ordered to obtain
additional evidence of Stylenquaza’s contacts with the State of California and
to determine whether Stylenquaza’s shipments to California are actually “rare”
and “insubstantial,” Stylenquaza has already provided its total distribution to
California. (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 8.) Thus, Plaintiff does not identify what
jurisdictional facts any further discovery is expected to reveal.
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the request for jurisdictional discovery.  
 
III. DISPOSITION 

 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Cosentino’s motion to quash due to improper service. 
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Stylenquaza LLC’s motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction. 
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Guidoni USA Inc.’s motion to quash for lack of
jurisdiction. 
 
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for jurisdictional discovery.  
 