 Case Number:  23STCV12050    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOHN
  MERRITT,  
  
         vs.
 
TRIUMPH
  PROCESSING, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV12050
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 31, 2024



 
Defendants
Triumph Processing Inc.’s and
Coast Plating, Inc. dba Valence Surface Technologies’
motion to compel Plaintiff John Merritt’s claims in
his Complaint to arbitration is granted. 
The case is stayed pending arbitration.
The
Court sets a non-appearance
case review for January 31, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. 
The parties are directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days
in advance, apprising the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Plaintiff
John Merritt’s
motion for preferential trial date is denied as moot.
 
Defendants Triumph Processing
Inc.’s and Coast Plating, Inc. dba Valence Surface Technologies (collectively,
“Valence”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiff John
Merritt (“Merritt”) (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate all his claims alleged in his complaint
(“Complaint”) and to stay all proceedings in this action pending completion of
arbitration.  (Notice Compel Arbitration,
pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1280-1294.2.; 9 U.S.C. §§1-16.)
Plaintiff moves for an order
setting a preferential trial date and all related deadlines and dates to May
13, 2024, or as soon thereafter as the calendar of this Court may accommodate
within 20 days.  (Notice Trial Preference,
pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §36.)
 
          Background
On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his operative Complaint in the instant action against Moving Defendants
and Non-moving Defendants ATL Partners Aerospace Transportation & Logistics
(“ATL”), British Columbia Investment Management Corporation (“BCI”), Kyle
Parham (“Parham”), Paul Sellars (“Sellars”), and Salil Pradhan (“Pradhan”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging six causes of action: (1) Discrimination
(FEHA); (2) Hostile Work Environment (FEHA); (3) Retaliation (FEHA)); (4)
Failure to Prevent Discrimination (FEHA); (5) Retaliation (Labor Code §1102.5);
and (6) Negligent Supervision and Retention. 
Plaintiff’s causes of action stem from Plaintiff’s employment with
Valence, which commenced on March 1, 1989. 
(Complaint ¶20.)
On January 8, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion on January 18, 2024. Moving Defendants
filed their reply January 24, 2024.
On September 15, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion for trial preference.  Moving Defendants filed their opposition to
the motion on January 18, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed his reply on January 24, 2024.
          
A.   Motion to Compel Arbitration
1.     Enforceability of the Arbitration
Agreement
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
United States Supreme Court has specifically held that the FAA applies to
employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is clear.  In the Federal Arbitration Act, Congress has
instructed federal courts to enforce arbitration agreements according to their
terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018)
138 S.Ct. 1612, 1619, [holding that employees must submit to arbitration
agreements including those with collective action waivers].)  
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiff agreed to arbitration when he entered into the
Arbitration Agreement (“Agreement”) that contained the relevant arbitration
clause.  (Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A; Decl. of Hamrick ¶9, Exh.
A.)  Second, the Agreement expressly covers “any
controversy, dispute, or claim” between Plaintiff and Valence.  (Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A at ¶2.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97,
99.)  The public policy in favor of
arbitration is so strong that California courts have held that an employee is
“bound by the provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether
[he] read it or [was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the
document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of
America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992)
12 Cal.App.4th 1.)  The only prerequisite
for a court to order arbitration is a determination that the parties have
entered into an agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United Transportation Union v. Southern
California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration must be ordered “unless the
agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in question.” (Vianna v.
Doctors’ Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Moving Defendants proved the existence of an
arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.  Moving
Defendants submitted evidence that on December 7, 2018, Plaintiff signed the Agreement.  (See Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A.)  Pursuant to C.C.P. §1281.2, Moving Defendants demonstrated
they made a formal demand for arbitration on June 23, 2023, to which Plaintiff
responded by stating he did not agree to stipulate to proceed to arbitration.  (Decl. of Herter Perkin ¶2, Exh. A.)  
Plaintiff’s argument that Moving Defendants
waived their right to arbitrate is unavailing.  Moving Defendants engaged in brief discovery
early on in this case by propounding a set of document requests, special
interrogatories, and form interrogatories on Plaintiff on July 27, 2023.  Since then, Moving Defendants have not engaged
in any discovery, nor have they pushed for any depositions, given the fact that
Moving Defendants do not know which forum they will be in to litigate this
case.  Plaintiff propounded a set of
discovery request on Moving Defendants in October 2023, to which Moving Defendants
only served objections with no responses. 

Moving Defendants have not waived their
rights to arbitration by serving basic initial discovery, and objecting to
Plaintiff’s discovery for the purpose of preserving all legal rights.  Defendants have not engaged in any conduct
which would support the argument that they have waived their right to
arbitration by acting inconsistently with such right.  (See Khalatian v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 660-661 [finding no waiver of right to arbitration
where discovery was limited in which plaintiff demanded documents and sent form
interrogatories to defendant, and defendant propounded one set of requests for
production of documents and one set of special interrogatories on plaintiff]; Hall
v. Nomura Securities International (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 43, 51 [instituting
discovery by noticing other party’s deposition was not sufficient to waive
right to seek arbitration]; see also Groom v. Health Net (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 1189, 1196 [no prejudice when party seeking to avoid a waiver had
propounded discovery requests].)
Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the validity
of the arbitration agreement are also unavailing.  Plaintiff does not argue that it is not his
signature on the Agreement, or that he was not provided the entire document
upon signing the Agreement.  Plaintiff
fails to provide evidence or argument as to any fraud in the execution of the
Agreement, other than to refer to the paragraph in the agreement which refers
to at-will employment, which is not a sufficient argument.  (See Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 425 [to make out a claim
of fraud in the execution, a party seeking to avoid arbitration must
show that the party was deceived as to the basic character of the
documents signed and had no reasonable opportunity to learn the truth); see also
Brown v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 938, 959 [noting
that it is not reasonable to fail to read a contract].)
Based on the foregoing, Moving Defendants
proved the existence of a valid Agreement that is enforceable by Moving Defendants.

 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Agreement states, in part:
The Claims which are to be arbitrated under
this Policy include, but are not limited to claims for wages and other
compensation, claims for breach of contract (express or implied), claims for
violation of public policy, tort claims, and claims for harassment,
retaliation or discrimination (including, but not limited to, race,
national origin, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, physical
disability, mental disability, medical condition, marital status, age, pregnancy,
sex or sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression) to the extent
allowed by law, and claims for violation of
any federal, state, or other government law, statute, regulation, or ordinance.
 
(Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A, emphases
added.)   
Plaintiff’s
claims arise from his employment relationship with Moving Defendants and are
therefore governed by the Agreement. Based on the foregoing, Moving Defendants
met their burden to establish the Agreement covers the causes of action
asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
3.    
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
 
a.     
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement was
presented to Plaintiff as a condition of his employment on “on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis.”  (Opposition,
pg. 14.)
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice . . .
Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a
‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior
Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Procedural
unconscionability “focuses on the unequal bargaining positions and hidden terms
common in the context of adhesion contracts.” 
(24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1199, 1212-1213.)  Although standard
employment agreements offered on a “take it or leave it” basis are generally
considered contracts of adhesion, this alone is not enough to equate to
unconscionability.  (See Graham
v. Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817-819 [“To describe a
contract as adhesive in character is not to indicate its legal effect. It is,
rather, ‘the beginning and not the end of the analysis insofar as
enforceability of its terms are concerned.’”].) 
Adhesion contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other
factors are present which under established legal rules—legislative or
judicial—operate to render it otherwise.”  (Id. at pgs. 819-820; Harper v.
Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1409 [adhesion alone does not render
arbitration agreements unconscionable]; see also Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at 114; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps, LLP
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [discussing many authorities upholding
arbitration agreements contained in adhesion contracts].) 
Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition that his requirement to sign the Arbitration Agreement
as a condition of his employment and is therefore procedurally unconscionable
is unavailing and is unsupported by case law. 
The adhesive nature of arbitration agreements in the employment context
does not render an agreement unenforceable. 
(Lagatree, 74 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1127 [“[C]ases uniformly agree
that a compulsory predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered
unenforceable just because it is required as a condition of employment or
offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis.”]; Armendariz, 24 Cal. 4th at pg.
113 [holding that the requirement that the employee sign an arbitration
agreement may contain some elements of procedural unconscionability, but that,
in itself, does not invalidate the arbitration agreement]; Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e, LP (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [“Where there is no other
indication of oppression or surprise, the degree of procedural
unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low[.]”].)  
Here,
the terms of the Agreement do not appear hidden or obscure: the Agreement is a
standalone document with “Binding Arbitration Agreement” titled in bold and
italicized, with individual paragraphs indicating the procedure for demanding
arbitration and the arbitration itself.  (Decl.
of Barahona, Exh. A.).  The fourth-to-last
paragraph on the third page of the Agreement reads, “The Parties represent and
agree that each has reviewed all aspects of this Agreement, has carefully read
and fully understands all provisions of this agreement, and is voluntarily entering
into this Agreement. The Parties represent and agree that each has had the opportunity
to review any and all aspects of this Agreement with the legal or other advisor
of the party’s choice before executing this Agreement.”  (Decl. of Barahona, Exh. A.)  Accordingly, the Arbitration Agreement’s duty
to arbitrate was not hidden from Plaintiff in a manner as to make him unaware
of the agreement to arbitrate.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is at the most
minimally procedurally unconscionable.  However,
as discussed below, the Court finds the arbitration agreement is not
substantively unconscionable.  
 
b.    
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because, while discovery
is permitted under the JAMS rules, it requires additional efforts (and the
arbitrator’s approval) to seek discovery that is more than the amount provided
as a maximum in the JAMS rules, the process to compel any non-compliant
third-party witness to provide a deposition or other discovery is quite a bit
more cumbersome than the court process, and the Agreement states on page 2 that
“[t]he arbitrator shall have the authority to determine what constitutes
reasonable discovery,” which are limitations generally advantageous to a
defendant such as the employer in this case. 
(Opposition, pg. 15.)  
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations].”  (Roman, 172
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs.
102-103.)
The
Arbitration Agreement satisfies the requisite elements set forth in Armendariz
to determine the Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  First, the Arbitration Agreement provides the
arbitration will apply the rules and procedures of the Judicial Arbitration and
Mediation Service (“JAMS Rules”). By incorporating the JAMS Rules, the
Agreement provides for the selection of a mutually agreed to neutral arbitrator.
 (See JAMS Employment Arbitration
Rules & Procedures (“JAMS Rules”), Rules 7 and 15.)  The Agreement provides the parties with the opportunity
of selecting an arbitrator.  (See
JAMS Rules, Rule 15, “Arbitrator Selection, Disclosures, and Replacement”.)
Second,
the court in Armendariz explicitly acknowledged an arbitrator’s
authority to determine what constitutes sufficient discovery adequate to
arbitrate an employee’s claims.  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 106 [employees are “entitled to discovery sufficient to
adequately arbitrate their statutory claim, including access to essential
documents and witnesses, as determined by the arbitrator.”].)  Here, the JAMS Rules provide for adequate
discovery, allowing an exchange of documents, interrogatories, and depositions.
 (See JAMS Rules, Rule 17,
“Exchange of Information”.)  The
Agreement contains no actual limitation on discovery and therefore does not
limit Plaintiff’s discovery rights in any way. 
Third,
The JAMS Rules provide for a written award with essential findings of fact and
conclusions of law on which the Award is based.  (See JAMS Rules, Rule 24, “Award.”) 
Fourth,
the Agreement provides for all relief that would be available in court,
stating: “The arbitrator shall be permitted to award only those remedies in law
or equity which are requested by the parties and allowed by law.”  (Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A.)
Fifth,
under Armendariz, an employee cannot be required to pay any type of
expense that the employee would not be required to bear if he or she were free
to bring the action in court.  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pgs. 110-111.)  Here, the
Agreement places no obligations on Plaintiff to pay for or to contribute
towards the fees for the arbitrator and the use of the arbitration forum.  The Agreement requires Moving Defendants to
pay for the costs of arbitration, stating, “[t]he cost of the arbitrator and
other incidental costs of arbitration that would not be incurred in a court
proceeding shall be come by the Company. In no event will Employee be responsible
for any portion of those fees in excess of the filing or initial appearance
fees applicable to court actions in the jurisdiction where the arbitration will
be conducted. The Company otherwise will pay all costs and expenses unique to
arbitration, including the arbitrator's fees.” 
(Decl. of Barahona ¶6, Exh. A.)
Based
on the evidence before the Court, the terms of the Agreement do not create
overly harsh or one-sided results, satisfying the requirements for a
substantively conscionable agreement.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
4.    
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
5.    
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
The case is stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance
case review for January 31, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are directed to submit a joint
statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the status of
the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
B.    Motion for Trial Preference
Based on the Court’s ruling
on the Motion to Compel Arbitration, Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is
denied as moot.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  