 Case Number:  21STCV02407    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  STEVE CANCIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MAXIMO ROMAN, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV02407  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 19, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On January 21, 2021, plaintiff Steve Cancian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Maximo Roman and Southern Counties Lubricants LLC (“Defendants”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle collision. On November 8, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ request to continue the trial date and all related dates. Trial was continued from December 18, 2023 to May 20, 2024, with all discovery and expert cutoff dates to track with the new trial date. (Min. Order, Nov. 8, 2023.) On March 18, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion requesting the Court to continue the trial date and all related dates by approximately three months to August 12, 2024 or to a date thereafter.  Any opposition was due on or before April 8, 2024; none was filed.  II. LEGAL STANDARD Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III. DISCUSSION & CONCLUSION Defendants assert a continuance is necessary because they require additional time to obtain medical records regarding Plaintiff’s September 2023 surgery from North Carolina. Further, Defendants provide that the parties are scheduled for mediation with mediator John Raleigh (“Raleigh”) for June 6, 2024. Defendants aver the parties have jointly stipulated to continue trial to August 12, 2024. This is the fourth request for a trial continuance. The Court previously granted Defendants’ motion to continue trial, in which Defendants made substantially the same arguments for a trial continuance. Previously, Defendants argued that Plaintiff underwent tarsal tunnel decompression surgery on September 27, 2023, and Defendants were coordinating receipt of Plaintiff’s medical and billing records for this surgery. Further, the mediation with Raleigh was previously scheduled for February 20, 2024. Defense counsel fails to explain why no apparent progress has been made in obtaining Plaintiff’s medical records since trial had last been continued about five months ago, nor have Defendants provided why mediation has been continued once again. This indicates some measure of lack of diligence.  Nonetheless, in the interests of the parties potentially settling this matter, and due to the parties’ agreement on the continuance, the Court will briefly continue the trial date by three months. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The May 20, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The May 6, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date. Given the number of continuances, the parties are on notice that the Court will not be inclined to grant any further continuances. The parties must plan all discovery and trial preparation accordingly.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 18th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   