  Case Number:  20STCV08853    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SEYEDEH MASOUMEH RAZAVIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WEST VALLEY OCCUPATIONAL CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV08853  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 19, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Seyedeh Masoumeh Razavian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants West Valley Occupational Center and Does 1 through 100 for injuries arising from a slip and fall on slippery yellow traction plates. The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) sets forth three causes of action for (1) negligence – against Does 1 through 100, (2) premises liability against Does 1-100, and (3) dangerous condition of public property pursuant to Gov. Code § 835 against West Valley Occupational Center – Los Angeles Unified School District.  Los Angeles Unified School District, erroneously sued as West Valley Occupational Center, (“LAUSD”) moves for summary judgment. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and LAUSD filed a reply. This motion was initially set to be heard on March 22, 2024. However, the Court was unavailable to hear oral argument on that date, and pursuant to oral stipulation, the hearing was continued to March 28, 2024. (Min. Order, March 22, 2024.) On March 28, 2024, the Court continued the hearing to allow the parties to file supplemental declarations regarding the mailing of the government tort claim. (Min. Order, March 28, 2024.) Thereafter, on April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration. On April 12, 2024, LAUSD filed a reply to the supplemental declaration.   II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE & EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Judicial Notice LAUSD requests the Court take judicial notice of (1) LAUSD is a public entity school district, (2) Plaintiff’s Complaint, (3) Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, (4) Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint, and (5) the Declaration of Toni Tosello (“Tosello”) stating that LAUSD records do not contain a claim for money or damages form by Plaintiff.  Request 1 is denied, Requests 2-4 are granted, and Request 5 is denied.   Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits 9 evidentiary objections to LAUSD’s evidence. Objections 1-2 to the declaration of Daniel Barrientos are overruled. Objections 2-9 to the declaration of Tosello are overruled. LAUSD submits 7 objections to the declaration of Plaintiff’s expert, Eris J. Barillas (“Barillas”). The objections are sustained on the grounds of relevance and lack of foundation.  III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  A. Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  B. Analysis: Presentment of Tort Claim LAUSD contends it is entitled to summary judgment, because Plaintiff is barred from asserting a claim against it for failure to comply with the claim presentation requirements of the California Government Tort Claims Act. California Government Code § 911.2(a) states, “[a] claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” A tort claim for money damages against a public entity must be filed with the public entity within six months of the accrual of the cause of action.  (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) “A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) “The timeliness of such actions is governed by the specific statute of limitations set forth in the Government Code, not the statute of limitations applicable to private defendants.” (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1267.)  Gov. Code, § 915.2 also provides in relevant part:  If a claim, amendment to a claim, or application to a public entity for leave to present a late claim is presented or sent by mail under this chapter, or if any notice under this chapter is given by mail, the claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be mailed in the manner prescribed in this section. The claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be deposited in the United States post office, a mailbox, sub-post office, substation, mail chute, or other similar facility regularly maintained by the government of the United States, in a sealed envelope, properly addressed, with postage paid. The claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be deemed to have been presented and received at the time of the deposit. …  As applied to this section, proof of mailing may be made in the manner prescribed by Section 1013a of the Code of Civil Procedure. (Gov. Code, § 915.2 (a), (c).)   Here, the undisputed material facts are as follows. Plaintiff slipped and fell on October 23, 2019 on the campus of LAUSD’s West Valley Occupational Center. (UMF 1.) LAUSD is a public entity school district. (UMF 28.) Plaintiff alleges a claim was properly presented via U.S. mail on her behalf on November 25, 2019 via certified mail-return receipt requested. (UMFs 29-30.) At all times relevant, Tosello has been the Liability Claims Coordinator for LAUSD. (UMF 31.) LAUSD’s Executive Officer of the Board of Education is located at 333 South Beaudry, 24th floor, Los Angeles, CA 90017. (UMF 32.) Tosello is responsible for maintaining records with respect to persons or entities that present claims for damages to LAUSD. (UMF 33.) Tosello conducted a diligent search for records or documents related to a claim presented by Plaintiff, or persons acting on her behalf, and did not find any claim. (UMFs 34-35.) It is further undisputed that Plaintiff does not have proof that the Certified Mail return receipt was attached to the claim for damages, and that it was deposited for mailing by the United States Post Office (“USPS”), or that the claim for damages was delivered by USPS. (UMFs 36-37.) Plaintiff has no proof that the certified mail was postmarked by USPS. (UMF 28.) LAUSD has met its prima facie burden that Plaintiff failed to timely present a claim to LAUSD prior to bringing suit, and that she is therefore barred from asserting a claim against LAUSD for the incident. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the claim for damages was placed in the building mailbox on November 25, 2019 by Plaintiff’s counsel’s secretary, Maria Magallanes (“Magallanes”). Plaintiff cites to the “Mailbox Rule” Cal. Civ. Code § 684.120, which is a statute drawn in part from Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1005 and 1013. Here, Gov. Code § 915.2¿states that “proof of mailing¿may be made¿in the manner prescribed § 1013a of the Code of Civil Procedure.”   Cal. Civ. Code § 1013a, subd. (1), provides that proof of service by mail may be made by:  “An affidavit setting forth the exact title of the document served and filed in the case, showing the name and residence or business address of the person making the service, showing that he or she is a resident of or employed in the county where the mailing occurs, that he or she is over the age of 18 years and not a party to the cause, and¿showing the¿date and¿place of deposit in the mail,¿the name and address of the person served as shown on the envelope, and also showing that the envelope was sealed and deposited in the mail with the postage thereon fully prepaid.”   Only substantial compliance is required. (Him v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 437, 443.) Here, Plaintiff submits the declaration of Magallanes (with exhibits) and supplemental declaration without exhibits. Magallanes declares she is the senior legal assistant/secretary employed by Plaintiff’s counsel, and that she has personal knowledge of the mailing of the claim. (Magallanes Decl. ¶¶ 1, 5). Magallanes states she personally prepared Plaintiff’s claim against LAUSD, printed the envelope, and placed the claim in the envelope. (Id. ¶¶ 7-9.) Magallanes declares that on November 25, 2019, she “personally took the mail to the building mailbox and deposited it in the mailbox.” The original declaration provides, as an exhibit, a copy of the claim for damages letter, dated November 25, 2019, that Magallanes declared she had prepared. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Magallanes supplemental declaration adds that she had sealed the claim in an envelope with fully pre-paid postage, and that the building mailbox for deposit was a mailbox regularly maintained by the United States government. (Magallanes Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 14-17.) Defendant argues that even if Plaintiff substantially complied with Cal. Gov. Code § 915.2, that Plaintiff has not proven LAUSD actually received the claim pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code § 915(e). However, Cal. Gov. Code § 915(e) provides a means of compliance with presentation of a claim “even though it is not delivered or mailed as provided in this section.” Cal. Gov. Code § 915(e) does not supplant Cal. Gov. Code § 915.2, which provides notice shall be deemed to have been presented and received at the time of the deposit, if notice was given by mail. In other words, if there is substantial compliance with Cal. Gov. Code § 915.2, then the claim is deemed to have been presented based on the date of deposit. Cal. Gov. Code § 915(e) merely provides an additional means for deeming compliance with the claim presentment. There is no requirement in Cal. Gov. Code § 915.2 that the public entity must have actually received the mailed claim. (Him v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2005) 133 Cal. App. 4th 437, 445 [“the Legislature has placed upon the claimant the risk that a properly mailed notice of claim rejection is not delivered due to an error by the postal authorities. And, the Legislature has provided a corresponding opportunity for the claimant to protect itself from this risk.”].)  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff raises a triable issue of material fact regarding the timely presentation of her claim to LAUSD. LAUSD relies upon Him v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 437 to argue that, unlike the facts in Him, here there was no proof of service affidavit executed on the date of the claim purportedly deposited for mailing. The evidence presented in Him involved claim rejection notices with attached proofs of service signed by the claims adjuster, and the claims adjuster’s declaration averring the rejection notices were mailed on a specific date. However, Him did not stand for the proposition that proofs of service were an absolute requirement for a court to find substantial compliance with Cal. Gov. Code § 915.2.  The factual circumstances of Katelaris v. Cnty. of Orange (2001) 92 Cal. App. 4th 1211 appear to be more similar to the situation presented here. In Katelaris, the county purportedly mailed a claim rejection letter to plaintiff’s counsel, and plaintiff brought suit beyond the six-month period from the date the letter was mailed. To establish the mailing of the rejection notice, the county offered the declaration of its assistant claims manager, who declared he prepared and mailed the notice of rejection of plaintiff’s claim, that he was familiar with the mailing policies and procedures of the department and provides the date of deposit. (Id. at 1213.) The county also offered the declaration of its office technician, who was responsible for processing outgoing mail, and by explaining how letters are mailed, the declaration was evidence that amounts to legal proof of mailing (how correspondence was picked up, processed, and deposited in the mail). (Id. at 1215.) There is no indication in the Kateleris case that the county offered any other evidence aside from the declarations of its employees and a copy of the rejection notice. Similarly, here Magallanes offers a copy of the Claim for Damages form she generated, dated November 25, 2019, and furnishes her own declarations attesting to the creation and deposit of the mail in a mailbox governed by the United States on November 25, 2019. LAUSD provides no authority that Magallanes is required to state where she obtained pre-paid postage or that she must provide pictures of the USPS mailbox to support her sworn affidavits.  LAUSD reasonably scrutinizes the truth and sufficiency of Plaintiff’s claim of compliance via Magallanes’ declarations. However, because the Him case does not provide guidance on the particular requisite evidence needed to demonstrate substantial compliance, and the facts here are similar to that presented in the Katelaris case, the Court believes it is bound by the facts and reasoning in Katelaris. In other words, the Court cannot affirmatively conclude that Magallanes’ declaration is deficient to the extent that it does not amount to legal proof of mailing. Accordingly, LAUSD’s motion for summary judgment on the grounds of failure to timely present a claim is denied.  The Court now turns to the merits of LAUSD’s motion of whether Plaintiff has established the existence of a dangerous condition of public property, and whether LAUSD had actual or constructive notice of the condition.  C. Analysis: Existence of Dangerous Condition   A “dangerous condition” is a condition of property that creates a substantial risk of injury when such property is used with due care in a manner which is reasonably foreseeable. Ordinarily, the existence of a dangerous condition is a question of fact. However, it can be resolved as a question of law if reasonable minds can come but to one conclusion. It is for the Court to determine whether, as a matter of law, a given defect is not dangerous because property owners should not become insurers against injuries arising from trivial defects. (Davis v. City of Pasadena (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 701, 704.)  “The Act defines a “ ‘[d]angerous condition’ ” as “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (§ 830.) Public property is in a dangerous condition within the meaning of section 835 if it “is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger those using the property itself.” [Citation.] A condition is not dangerous “if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial, or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (§ 830.2.)     (Cordova v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1105.) The undisputed material facts are as follows. Plaintiff was a student at LAUSD’s West Valley Occupational Center (“WVOC”) for about seven to eight years prior to the incident. There is a walkway area in front of the entrance to the main building, which has yellow tactile warning plates along the edge of the walkway that abuts the parking lot. On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff was dropped off in front of the entrance to the main building on WVOC campus sometime between 8:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff did not see anything as she went through the walkway area before entering the building. At 1:30 p.m., Plaintiff exited the main building, and as she was walking toward the pickup location, Plaintiff slipped and fell on greenish mud substance.  LAUSD submits the declaration of Daniel Barrientos (“Barrientos”) in support of the contention that no dangerous condition existed. Barrientos declares that he has been employed as a Building and Grounds Worker at WVOC since 2012. (Barrientos Decl. ¶ 2.) Barrientos provides his regular and customary daily morning tasks involves sweeping the walkway area, including the yellow tactile warning plates, in front of the entrance of the building. (Id. at ¶ 5.) In general, Barrientos sweeps the walkway between 7:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. (Ibid.) On October 23, 2019, Barrientos presented at WVOC for his regular shift, and declares he swept the walkway, including the yellow tactile warning plates, and used a blower to gather the dirt and debris. (Id. at ¶ 7.) The debris was discarded, and after visually scanning the walkway, he did not see anything on the yellow tactile warning plates that could have caused a slip and fall. (Ibid.) After Plaintiff fell, Barrientos cleaned the plates to remove Plaintiff’s blood, and he did not see anything on the plates that could have caused the fall. (Id. at ¶ 9.) LAUSD thus meets its prima facie burden that no dangerous condition existed prior to and at the time Plaintiff slipped and fell. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff refers to her deposition testimony that the ramp had not been adequately cleared, and that leaves concealed the greenish mud on the yellow tactile plates. Plaintiff testified that when she fell, her hands and pants were dirtied. (Ghermezian Decl. Exh. 1; Plf. Depo. 36:2-3.) There were leaves covering the greenish mud substance, and Plaintiff only saw leaves as she walked. (Id. at 36:8-21) Plaintiff did not know that there was mud underneath the dead leaves. (Id. at 37:3-23.) Viewing the circumstances and evidence in a light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court cannot conclude that the green mud beneath the leaves was so insignificant in nature, such that no reasonable person would be able to conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury.  The parties dispute the existence of the greenish mud, since Barrientos did not see the substance prior to and after Plaintiff’s fall. However, because this is in dispute, there exists a triable issue of material fact as to whether a dangerous condition existed at the time of the incident. The Court thus turns to whether LAUSD had notice of the condition, such that it had sufficient time to remedy it.   D. Analysis: Notice of the Dangerous Condition  To hold a public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, (3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4) that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition or the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition. (Gov. Code § 835.)  Consequently, a public entity is only liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either creates the condition or has actual or constructive notice of the condition. (Gov Code §835(b).)   LAUSD argues that the WBOC main office did not receive any complaints about the condition of the walkway, nor have there been any prior incidents of falls due to dirt, debris, or other substances where Plaintiff fell. LAUSD avers the walkway area is swept every morning to clear the area of any debris, dirt, or substance that could be a slip hazard, and that Plaintiff did not see anything on the yellow tactile warning plates when she walked through the area in the morning. LAUSD argues Plaintiff has no evidence of how long the alleged dangerous condition existed prior to her fall. LAUSD has met its burden that it had neither actual or constructive notice of the condition, such that it would have had sufficient time to remedy it. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Plaintiff argues that LAUSD’s inspection protocol was insufficient, and that a more frequent inspection protocol would have caused LAUSD to become aware of the dangerous condition. As framed by the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that she slipped and fell on “slippery yellow traction plates.” (SAC at ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery clarifies that she slipped on a “slippery substance on the floor” (Beckles Decl; Exh. D), and her deposition testimony provides that the specific slippery substance was greenish mud. Plaintiff relies upon her expert, Barillas, who conducted a slip test of the walking surface and the slip resistance with dry leaves. However, at issue is not the material of the walking surface itself nor did Plaintiff slip and fall on leaves. At issue was the alleged presence of mud on the surface of the traction plates, which Plaintiff contends caused her to fall. For this reason, Barillas’ declaration is not relevant. Further, Barillas provides no support for her conclusory opinion that LAUSD’s daily morning inspection and sweep is not enough to keep the walkway clear.  Plaintiff has failed to provide any evidence that the slippery condition existed for such a period of time, and was of such an obvious nature, that LAUSD should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character. (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b).) Further, on the issue of due care, Plaintiff provides no admissible evidence that LAUSD’s daily inspection system was not reasonably adequate. (Gov. Code § 835.2 (b)(1)-(2).) “Whether the dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.” (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317.) Plaintiff completely fails to address either element in both its opposing papers and separate statement with admissible evidence. Plaintiff unsupported contention that a “more frequent proactive inspection protocol” would have caused LAUSD to be aware of the dangerous condition is insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact regarding notice. “Where the plaintiff fails to present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is deficient as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)  IV. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, LAUSD’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 18th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    