  Case Number:  22LBCV01037    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CASAMIGOS CAPITAL LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BRIAN K. WILDASINN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22LBCV01037
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR TERMINATING
  SANCTIONS; GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, AND FORM INTERROGATORIES; GRANTING MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR
  ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 24, 2024



 
On
December 21, 2022, Plaintiff Casamigos Capital LLC filed this action against Brian
K. Wildasinn, Constance Wildasinn, and WGroup Realtors.  “The parties and relevant individuals share a
last name.  For clarity, convenience, and
in order to avoid confusion, we refer to them by their first names and intend no
disrespect.”  (Cruz v. Superior Court
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 175, 188, fn. 13.)
On
August 10, 2023, Brian filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff.
Now
pending before the Court are several motions filed by Brian and Constance.
MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
On
September 20, 2024, Constance filed a motion for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff.  In the alternative, she asks for evidentiary sanctions.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
A
court may impose a terminating sanction against anyone engaging in conduct that
is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).)  Misuse
of the discovery process includes failing to respond to discovery, unjustifiably
making unmeritorious objections to discovery, and disobeying a court order to provide
discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)  “The trial court may order a terminating sanction
for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]
conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to
the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
the discovery.’  [Citation.]  Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But
where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules,
the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)
A
court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts must be taken
as established in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)  A court may
also impose an issue sanction prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.  (Ibid.)
Constance
seeks terminating sanctions, or in the alternative, an order that precludes Plaintiff
from introducing any evidence at trial.  Constance
contends that Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s May 24, 2024 order that
required Plaintiff to respond to discovery and pay sanctions.  Plaintiff also has not responded to attempts at
contact, and its counsel has gone silent.
Plaintiff’s
failure to comply with a single order to produce discovery does not demonstrate
a history of abuse that justifies “the ultimate sanction.”  (See Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at p. 390.)  Additionally, trial is not until
June 8, 2026—over a year an a half away.
Under
the totality of the circumstances, Constance has not shown a history of willful
discovery abuse by Plaintiff, and the Court cannot find that less severe sanctions
would be ineffective and that terminating sanctions are warranted.  
Plaintiff’s
alternative request for an evidentiary sanction is also not warranted at this time.  The Court will not impose the requested broad
order that Plaintiff cannot introduce any evidence at trial.
The
motion is DENIED without prejudice to renewal if Plaintiff continues to fail to
cooperate with discovery.
DISCOVERY
MOTIONS
On
May 24, 2024, Brian (as both defendant and cross-complainant) served Requests For
Production of Documents, Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, and Requests
for Admissions on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff did
not provide timely responses, and Defendant agreed to extend the deadline to July
16, 2024.  Plaintiff still did not serve responses.
On
September 23, 2024, Brian filed seven motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses and
to deem the RFAs admitted.  Brian also requested
sanctions.
Where
a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the Court may make
an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection
of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) 

When
a party fails to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections
to the demand, unless the court grants them relief from the waiver, upon a showing
that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and
(2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court shall
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the
party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the
hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is
in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff
did not serve responses to Brian’s discovery and filed no oppositions to these motions.  Accordingly, the motions to compel are GRANTED.
Plaintiff
is ORDERED to serve verified responses, without objections, to Brian’s Requests
For Production of Documents, Special Interrogatories, and Form Interrogatories within
30 days of this order.
The
motion to deem RFAs admitted is also GRANTED. 
Brian’s Request for Admission, Set One is deemed admitted by Plaintiff.
The
Court determines that sanctions are appropriate against counsel, not the client,
because no oppositions were filed and no explanation was provided for the failure
to respond to discovery.  Plaintiff’s counsel
is ORDERED to pay a total sanction of $5,000.00 to Brian within 30 days. 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 24th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 