  Case Number:  22PSCV00069    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
PLAINTIFF’S
NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT is TBD because
defendant’s default precludes the ability to enter into a stipulation; should
the default be set aside; the motion is granted. (A proposed order has been
filed.)
Background
This is an ADA case. 
On January 21, 2022,
Plaintiff REBECCA CASTILLO filed suit against Defendant Uptown Koop, LLC.
On March 30, 2022, default was entered against Defendant.
On September 22,
2022, the court held its OSC re: Dismissal (Settlement). The minute order
provides in relevant part the following: “There is no appearance by or for the
defense. Court and Counsel confer regarding the case status, indicating the
parties reached a settlement, however the defendant is no longer in contact
with the plaintiff. Plaintiff's counsel intends to move forward with the
default Judgment.”
On November 18, 2022,
the court held another OSC re: Dismissal. The minute order provides in relevant
part the following: “There is no appearance by or for the defense. Court and
Counsel confer regarding the status of settlement, indicating plaintiff is attempting
to retrieve payments from defense. Further counsel indicates he may elect to
proceed by way of Default Judgment if he is unable to collect on the settlement
agreement.”
On June 13, 2023, the
court held another OSC re: Dismissal wherein Defendant again did not appear and
Plaintiff’s counsel again informed the court it has been unable to secure
settlement funds.
On August 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a NOTICE OF
WITHDRAWAL OF NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT.
On October 6, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant application for entry of default judgment. 
On October 30, 2023,
the court denied with prejudice Plaintiff’s application for entry of default
judgment for the failure to plead sufficient facts to establish an UCRA
violation. The court allowed for 30 days leave to amend the complaint, which
was to be filed by 11/29/23. 
On February 27, 2024,
the court again held hearings re: ‘Order to Show Cause Re: Default; Case
Management Conference; Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to File Proof of Service
as to Amended Complaint.’ Plaintiff’s counsel again informed the court about the
settlement.
On May 28, 2024, the
court again held an OSC re: dismissal and stated that “In light of the
enforceable settlement agreement between the parties, the Court admonishes
Plaintiff's Counsel that the case will be dismissed if not done so prior to the
next court date.”
On September 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
Legal
Standard
California Code of
Civil Procedure §664.6(a) provides that, "If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, . . . the court,
upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement."
Discussion
In November 2023, the
Parties reached a settlement. This settlement was memorialized in writing and
signed by both Parties; Defendant signed the settlement agreement on December
18, 2023, and Plaintiff signed the settlement agreement on December 26, 2023.
The settlement amount was for $11,000. Per the terms of the agreement, the
amount was due within 10 business days of Defendant receiving a copy of the
agreement. (Fitzgerald Decl., p. 5 of 43 of PDF.) In the event of a dispute or
issues with enforcement, the agreement provides that the agreement shall be
enforceable pursuant to CCP section 664.6. (p. 9 of 43 of PDF, P11.) 
However, as reflected
in the minute orders and Plaintiff’s Counsel’s numerous emails to Defense
Counsel, there has been no successful communication between the parties. As the
court can enforce the judgment pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the
court does so. That said, the
defendant is in default.  Entry of
a defendant's default terminates
that defendant's
rights to participate in the litigation (Devlin v. Kearny Mesa
AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d
381, 385, 202 Cal.Rptr. 204) Entering into a settlement agreement is tantamount to
participating in litigation. Should Plaintiff set aside the default entered
against Defendant, the settlement may be enforceable. 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is TBD, but likely granted upon setting aside Defendant’s
default. 