  Case Number:  23STCV22220    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  11 Booker (23STCV22220)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
Date:                           1/7/25
Time:                          11:00
am
Moving Party:           Hill, Farrer & Burrill LLP
(“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        Michelle Booker (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in full without leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action. 
Plaintiff alleges that she and the putative class were harmed by a data
breach of Defendant’s computer network:
 
1. With this action, Plaintiff seeks to hold
Defendant responsible for the harms caused to Plaintiff and other similarly
situated persons (“Class” or “Class Members” or “Breach Victims”) in a massive
and preventable data breach of Defendant’s inadequately protected computer
network.  
 
2. Following an investigation, which
concluded on August 7, 2023, Defendant determined that cybercriminals gained
unauthorized access to its systems between March 14, 2022 and March 18, 2022
(the “Data Breach” or “Breach”).  This
unauthorized user(s) accessed inadequately protected electronic systems of
Defendant and stole the sensitive personal information (“Personal
Information”), including names, dates of births, Social Security numbers, and
medical treatment information of Plaintiff and Breach Victims 
 
3.  In
short, thanks to Defendant’s failure to protect the Breach Victims’ Personal
Information, cybercriminals were able to steal everything they could possibly
need to commit nearly every conceivable form of identity theft and wreak havoc
on the financial and personal lives of potentially millions of
individuals.  
 
4. Defendant is a full-service law firm in
Los Angeles, California.  
 
5. Defendant’s conduct – failing to implement
adequate and reasonable measures to ensure their electronic systems were
protected, failing to take adequate steps to prevent and stop the breach, and
failing to timely detect the breach, failing to disclose the material facts
that they did not have adequate electronic systems and security practices to
safeguard the Personal Information, failing to honor their duty to protect the
Breach Victims’ Personal Identities, and failing to provide timely and adequate
notice of the Data Breach – caused substantial harm and injuries to Plaintiff
and the Class.  
 
6. As a result of the Data Brach, Plaintiff
and the Class have suffered damages.  For
example, Plaintiff has experienced a flood of spam telephone calls from unknown
persons since the Data Breach.  Now that
their Personal Information has been hacked, Plaintiff and Class Members are at
imminent risk of identity theft.  And
this will continue, as they must spend their time being extra vigilant, due to
Defendant’s failures, to try to prevent being victimized for the rest of their
lives.  
 
7. Plaintiff brings this class action lawsuit
on behalf of a nationwide and statewide class to hold Defendant responsible for
its negligent and reckless failure to use reasonable, current cybersecurity
measures to protect class members’ Personal Information.  
 
8. Because Defendant presented such a soft
target to cybercriminals, Plaintiff and Class Members have already been
subjected to violations of their privacy, fraud, and identity theft, or have
been exposed to a heightened and imminent risk of fraud and identity
theft.  Plaintiff and Class Members must
now and in the future, spend time to monitor their credit reports, financial
accounts, phone lists, and online accounts more closely to guard against
identity theft.  
 
9. Plaintiff and Class Members may also incur
out-of-pocket costs for, among other things, purchasing credit monitoring
services, credit freezes, credit reports, or other protective measures to deter
and detect identify theft.  
 
10. On behalf of herself and the Class,
Plaintiff seeks actual damages, statutory damages, and punitive damages, with
attorney fees, costs, and expenses under negligence, negligence per se, breach
of fiduciary duties, breach of confidence, breach of implied contract, and
invasion of privacy.  Plaintiff also
seeks injunctive relief, including significant improvements to Defendant’s data
security systems, future annual audits, and long-term credit monitoring
services funded by Defendant, and other remedies as the Court sees fit.  
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 1-10.)
 
Here, Defendant demurs to the first amended complaint (“FAC”).
 
LAW
 
When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The FAC contains causes of action
for negligence, breach of confidence, and invasion of privacy.
 
Negligence
 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc.
(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Undisputedly, the FAC states that
cybercriminals hacked Defendant’s computer system and stole Plaintiff’s
personal information and the class members’ personal information.  (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 1-3, 80-99.)
 
Defendant contends it did not owe
a duty to protect against third-party criminal acts.  (See Demurrer, pp. 2-3.)
 
Plaintiff argues that there was a
special relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant and that the Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 factors compel acknowledgement of a
duty.  (See Opposition, pp. 7-10.)
 
In reply, Defendant claims:
 
* “as a general matter, there is
no duty to act to protect others from conduct of third parties” (Reply, p. 2);
 
* an exception to the general
rule “arises when the defendant ‘is in . . . a “special relationship” with
either the victim or the person who created the harm’” (ibid.);
 
* Plaintiff fails to plead facts
showing a special relationship (see id. at pp. 2-3);
 
* since Plaintiff fails to show a
special relationship, the Rowland factors do not apply (see id. at p.
4); and,
 
* even assuming the Rowland
factors apply, “they confirm that no duty should be imposed in this case.”  (Ibid.; see also id. at p. 5.)
 
The California Supreme Court has
“explained that the law imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only when
it is the defendant who has ‘“created a risk of harm”’ to the plaintiff,
including when ‘“the defendant is responsible for making the plaintiff’s
position worse.”’”  (Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)  “The law does not impose the same duty on a
defendant who did not contribute to the risk that the plaintiff would suffer
the harm alleged.”  (Ibid.)  “Generally, the ‘person who has not created a
peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to take affirmative action to
assist or protect another’ from that peril.” 
(Ibid.)  “For example, a person
who stumbles upon someone drowning generally has no legal duty to help the
victim.”  (Ibid.)  “The same rule applies to a person who
stumbles upon a mugging, for ‘as a general matter, there is no duty to act to
protect others from the conduct of third parties.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“This general rule . . . ‘derives
from the common law’s distinction between misfeasance and nonfeasance, and its
reluctance to impose liability for the latter.’”  (Ibid.) 
“That distinction has deep roots in the law.”  (Ibid.) 
“And although it may sometimes produce outcomes that appear ‘[m]orally
questionable’ [citation], there are several reasons the no-duty-to-protect rule
has endured.”  (Id. at 215.)  “The most commonly cited reason for the rule
is rooted in ‘the liberal tradition of individual freedom and autonomy’ – the
idea that a person should be able to freely choose whether to come to the aid
of a stranger, without fear of incurring legal liability for the choice.”  (Ibid.) 
“But [] cases have recognized other reasons as well, including ‘“the
difficulties of setting any standards of unselfish service to fellow men,”’ and
the challenge of ‘“making any workable rule to cover possible situations where
fifty people might fail to rescue.”’” 
(Ibid.)
 
“The no-duty-to-protect rule is
not absolute, however;” the Supreme Court “has recognized a number of
exceptions.”  (Ibid.)  “Under some circumstances, a defendant may
have an affirmative duty to protect the plaintiff from harm at the hands of a
third party, even though the risk of harm is not of the defendant's own making.”  (Ibid.) 
“For example, if a person does choose to ‘undertake[ ] to come to the
aid of another,’ she may then have an affirmative duty to exercise reasonable
care in that undertaking.”  (Ibid.)  Also, relevant here, “a person may have an
affirmative duty to protect the victim of another’s harm if that person is in
what the law calls a ‘special relationship’ with either the victim or the
person who created the harm.”  (Ibid.)
 
“A special relationship between
the defendant and the victim is one that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’
protection from the defendant, while a special relationship between the
defendant and the dangerous third party is one that ‘entails an ability to
control [the third party’s] conduct.’” 
(Id. at 216.)  “Relationships
between parents and children, colleges and students, employers and employees,
common carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of
special relationships that give rise to an affirmative duty to protect.”  (Ibid.) 
“The existence of such a special relationship puts the defendant in a
unique position to protect the plaintiff from injury.”  (Ibid.)  “The law requires the defendant to use this
position accordingly.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Where the defendant has neither
performed an act that increases the risk of injury to the plaintiff nor sits in
a relation to the parties that creates an affirmative duty to protect the
plaintiff from harm, however,” case law “uniformly [holds that] the defendant
owes no legal duty[.]”  (Ibid.)
 
Given these rules, the Court
agrees with Defendant.  Plaintiff
proposes “two bases for finding a special relationship.”  (Reply, p. 3.)  First, Plaintiff claims Defendant qualifies
as her former employer’s agent because Defendant is representing the former
employer in a wrongful-termination lawsuit that Plaintiff filed against the
former employer.  (See Opposition, p. 8;
see also FAC, ¶¶ 26-27.)[1]  Plaintiff asserts that an employer-employee
relationship constitutes a special relationship and that it extends to
agents.  (See Opposition, p. 8; see also
Reply, p. 3).  Second, Plaintiff contends
a special relationship is generated when a law firm receives personal
information about a person during litigation. 
(See Opposition, p. 9; see also Reply, p. 3.)  The FAC does not allege either theory.  (See FAC, ¶ 91 [merely stating, conclusively,
that “Defendant had a special relationship with Plaintiff and the
Class”].)  More importantly, Plaintiff
cites distinguishable authorities in support of the first theory and no
authority in support of the second.  (See
Opposition, pp. 8-9.)  Kirsten v.
California Pizza Kitchen, Inc. (C.D. Cal. July 29, 2022, No.
2:21-CV-09578-DOC-KES) 2022 WL 16894503, Castillo v. Seagate Technology, LLC
(N.D. Cal. Sept. 14, 2016, No. 16-cv-01958-RS) 2016 WL 9280242, and Corona
v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc. (C.D. Cal. June 15, 2015, No. 14–CV–09600
RGK (Ex)) 2015 WL 3916744 are employee-versus-employer cases. Stasi v.
Immediata Health Group Corp. (2020) 501 F.Supp.3d 898 involved medical
patients suing a billing provider.  None
of them recognizes a special relationship between an employee and opposing
counsel arising from a wrongful-termination action in which the defendant is
the opposing counsel’s client. 
Plaintiff’s authorities do not stretch the special-relationship analysis
this far and do not confront the distinct policy considerations and
professional responsibilities related to the attorney-client relationship,
especially where the complainant is suing the attorney’s client.  Consequently, the Court: 
 
* finds that Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate a duty because she fails to demonstrate a special relationship; and

 
* sustains the demurrer without
leave to amend.[2]

 
The Rowland factors do not
change the result.  “Rowland was
not designed as a freestanding means of establishing a duty, but instead as a
means for deciding whether to limit a duty derived from other sources.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th
at 217, underlining of case name added.) 
“[T]he Rowland factors do not serve as an alternative basis for
imposing duties to protect.”  (Id. at
221, underlining of case name added.) 
“The purpose of the Rowland factors is to determine whether the
relevant circumstances warrant limiting a duty already established, not to
recognize legal duties in new contexts.” 
(Ibid., underlining of case name added.) 
Bottom line, Plaintiff cannot use the Rowland factors,
independently, to devise a duty if there is no special relationship.  (See ibid.; see also Reply, p. 4.)
 
Defendant also argues that the
FAC fails to allege an injury.  (See
Demurrer, pp. 4-7; see also Reply, pp. 5-8.)
 
In light of the duty analysis,
the Court does not need to reach this issue.
 
As a matter of guidance, though,
the Court tends to disagree.  The
emerging trend is to treat loss of value of personal information as an
injury.  This Court held as much in a case
called Doe v. Adobe, Inc. (23STCV11136). 
There, the Court found that loss of value could suffice as long as the
plaintiff amended to allege facts satisfying Moore v. Centrelake Medical
Group, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 515.  (See Adobe 3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer
and Motion to Strike; see also Adobe 9/19/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer and
Motion to Strike Re: First Amended Complaint.) 
If there were a special relationship, the Court
would be inclined to give Plaintiff a chance to do the same here.
 
Breach of Confidence
 
To prevail on a
claim for breach of confidence under California law, a plaintiff must
demonstrate that: (1) the plaintiff conveyed ‘confidential and novel
information’ to the defendant; (2) the defendant had knowledge that the
information was being disclosed in confidence; (3) there was an understanding
between the defendant and the plaintiff that the confidence be maintained; and
(4) there was a disclosure or use in violation of the understanding.
 
(Berkla v. Corel Corp. (9th
Cir. 2002) 302 F.3d 909, 917.)
 
Defendant claims the demurrer
should be sustained because “California protects novel ideas, not personal
information,” and Defendant did not intentionally disclose the information.  (Reply, p. 9; see also Demurrer, pp. 7-8
[additionally arguing that Plaintiff does not allege an injury].)
 
Plaintiff responds:
 
Breach of confidence
is a tort “based upon the concept of an implied obligation or contract between
the parties that confidential information will not be disclosed." [Citation.]
Plaintiff was a part[y] to litigation in which Defendant represented the
opposing party. Through litigation Plaintiff was required to share their
[personal information] with Defendant. Plaintiffs, as any litigant does,
anticipated that the lawyers involved in litigation will safeguard the [personal
information] which parties were obliged to divulge. Moreover, there is no
question of fact regarding whether this sensitive [personal information] was
disclosed, as Defendant already admits in its data breach notice. Lastly, as
Plaintiff has extensively explained above, Plaintiff has alleged several
theories of cognizable harm that resulted directly from Defendant’s failure to
safeguard Plaintiff’s [personal information] and timely notify them of their
data being breached. As such, the Court must deny Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss
as to Plaintiff’ Breach of Confidence Cause of Action.
 
(Opposition, p.
16.)   
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff’s response is
unsupported.  She does not cite case law
or specific allegations in the FAC.  If nothing
else, the fourth element is unsatisfied. 
“California courts have found that the ‘ordinary meaning’ of the word
‘disclosure’ ‘suggest[s] that disclosure occurs when’” the defendant
“affirmatively shares” the personal information “with another person or
entity.”  (In re Ambry Genetics Data
Breach Litigation (C.D. Cal. 2021) 567 F.Supp.3d 1130, 1146.)  “Plaintiff[] does not allege that Defendant[]
affirmatively shared any information or performed any act that gave hackers
information.”  (Id. at 1147.)  She alleges the opposite – unauthorized
access and theft (see FAC, ¶ 2) – so the demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.
 
 
 
 
Invasion of Privacy
 
“An actionable claim requires
three essential elements: (1) the claimant must possess a legally
protected privacy interest [citation]; (2) the claimant's expectation of
privacy must be objectively reasonable [citation]; and (3)
the invasion of privacy complained of must be serious in
both its nature and scope [citation].”  (Medical
Board of California v. Chiarottino (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 623,
631.)
 
The Court sustains without leave
to amend.  Again, the FAC alleges that
third-party cybercriminals cyberattacked Defendant.  Plaintiff fails to cite a case upholding an
invasion-of-privacy claim relative to a third-party cyberattack.  (See Opposition, p. 16; cf. Schmitt v. SN
Servicing Corp. (N.D. Cal. Nov. 12, 2021, No. 21-cv-03355-WHO) 2021 WL
5279822 [dismissing invasion-of-privacy claim because the personal information
had been obtained via third-party hacking].) 
She also does not allege intentional conduct by Defendant or actual
public disclosures.  (See FAC, ¶¶
114-115, 120 [only alleging disclosure to the third-party cybercriminals by
theft and vaguely stating that the personal information “is now available for
disclosure and redisclosure”], emphasis added; see also Demurrer, pp. 8-10;
Reply, pp. 9-10.)     
 
 
 


