 Case Number:  23CHCV02844    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/5/24
Case #23CHCV02844
 
MOTION FOR
ATTORNEYS’ FEES
 
Motion filed on 4/3/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Allegiance Gold, LLC; Unik Marketing LLC, Mark Naaman; Assadour Ebkarian
(erroneously sued as Alex Ebkarian); Fred Palmerino; Octavio Rocha (erroneously
sued as Ocatvio Rocha) and Monica Ward

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Shawn Campbell
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
awarding and fixing the amount of attorneys’ fees to which Defendants are
entitled as the prevailing parties in this action.  
 

RULING: The motion is granted.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
Plaintiff Shawn Campbell (Plaintiff) is a former employee
of Defendant Unik Marketing LLC (Unik). 
Plaintiff was terminated by Unik on 9/5/23.  On that same day, Plaintiff signed a
Severance Agreement and General Release (Agreement).  The Agreement indicated that in any action
brought to enforce rights under the Agreement, the prevailing party would be
entitled to its costs, including attorneys’ fees.  
 
On 9/5/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants
Allegiance Gold, LLC; Unik Marketing LLC, Mark Naaman; Assadour Ebkarian
(erroneously sued as Alex Ebkarian); Fred Palmerino; Octavio Rocha (erroneously
sued as Ocatvio Rocha) and Monica Ward (collectively, Defendants) seeking to
enforce his rights under the Agreement and alleging that each Defendant failed
to properly compensate him under the terms of the Agreement.
 
On 1/10/24, this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s complaint with 20 days leave to amend.  (See 1/10/24 Minute Order).  Plaintiff failed to amend his complaint.  On 2/8/24, pursuant to Defendants’ ex parte
application, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s action, with prejudice.  (See 2/8/24 Minute Order; 2/15/24
Judgment of Dismissal).  The Judgment
provides that Defendants are entitled to recover their costs, including
attorneys’ fees pursuant to a motion for attorneys’ fees.  
 
On 4/3/24, Defendants filed and served the instant  motion seeking an order awarding and fixing
the amount of attorneys’ fees to which Defendants are entitled as the
prevailing parties in this action. 
Plaintiff has not opposed or otherwise responded to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS 

 
The Agreement which formed the basis for Plaintiff’s
action contains an attorney fee provision which provides:
 
“In any action or other proceeding
to enforce rights hereunder, the prevailing party shall receive an award of
costs and expenses related to such proceeding, including attorneys’ fees. Venue
and personal jurisdiction for purposes of any action arising from Employee’s
employment with Company or any action or other proceeding to enforce rights hereunder
or between the parties is Los Angeles County, California only.”
 
(See DeCastro Decl., Ex.A
¶26).  
 
Based on the judgment of dismissal, Defendants are the
prevailing parties in this action and, thereby, are entitled to recover their
costs, including attorneys’ fees under the contract.  See CCP 1032(a)(4), (b); CCP
1033.5(a)(10)(A).
 
Based on the lodestar method of calculation (reasonable
number of hours spent multiplied by a reasonable hourly rate), Defendants have
established that they incurred $14,550.00 in attorney’s fees defending this
action (29.1 hours x $500/hour) plus $3,000.00 related to the instant motion,
which is also recoverable.  See Serrano
(1982) 32 C3d 621, 639, 642; (DeCastro Decl. and Ex.B thereto).  As such, Defendants are entitled to an award
of $17,550.00 in attorney’s fees.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted.
 
Despite being warned that the failure to electronically
bookmark exhibits attached to filed documents may result in matters being
continued so that papers can be re-submitted in the proper format, papers not
being considered, and/or the imposition of sanctions, Defendants have, again  failed to electronically bookmark the exhibits
attached to the motion in violation of CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  (See 1/10/24 Minute Order).  If Defendants continue to violate this rule
in future law and motion matters, the matter will be continued and papers will
be required to be refiled or papers will not be considered and/or sanctions
will be imposed.  
 