 Case Number:  23STCV10817    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED
Hearing Date: 10/9/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV10817 LEON MERRITT SR
vs HOPE LOGISTICS LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED IS GRANTED 
 
On March 11, 2024,
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority served its
Request for Admissions, Set One, on Plaintiff. Responses were due on April 19,
2024. As of September 4, 2024, when the present motion was filed, no responses
had been provided. Defendant now moves the Court to deem the content of its
Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted. 
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit
the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of
fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿CCP
§ 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿CCP
§ 2033.250(a).¿ 
If a party to whom
request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party
to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based on
privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party
can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for
monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless
the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a
motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted
does not have any meet and confer requirements. 
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff’s discovery responses were not served prior to the statutory
deadline. Furthermore, no opposition or any other document indicating that the
responses were served prior to the hearing has been filed. Thus, the motion is
granted, and the contents of Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One, are
deemed admitted. Defendant did not request sanctions.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.