 Case Number:  23STCP03185    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SUSAN HOFFMAN HYMAN,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
ROTEM “TOM” SHENON, 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondent.                               





     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP03185
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date: December 15, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Petitioner 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Respondent
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On October 23, 2023, Petitioner
filed a notice of hearing on her petition to compel arbitration (the
“Petition”) that was originally filed on August 30, 2023.  The Petition contends that a dispute
regarding remodeling work Respondent performed on Petitioner’s residence is
subject to binding arbitration pursuant to an arbitration provision (the
“Arbitration Agreement”) in a written agreement entered into by Petitioner and
Respondent.
 
DISCUSSION
The
purpose of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) is to move the parties in an
arbitrable dispute out of court and into arbitration as quickly and easily as
possible.  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460
U.S. 1, 23.)  The FAA is consistent with
the federal policy to ensure the enforceability, according to their terms, of
private agreements to arbitrate.  (Mastrobuono v.
Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc. (1995) 514 U.S. 52, 57.)  Under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 1281, a written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.  (CCP § 1281.)  California law, like federal law, favors
enforcement of valid arbitration agreements. 
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)  On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy unless grounds exist not to compel arbitration.  (CCP § 1281.2.)  
 
Existence of Agreement to
Arbitrate Petitioner’s Claims 
In
support of the Petition, Petitioner provides evidence of two Home Improvement
Agreements that she signed that Respondent sent to her using his company’s
letterhead.  (See Declaration of
Susan Hoffman Hyman (“Hyman Decl.”) ¶¶ 3, 8, Exhibits B, H.)  Both contracts include a provision that
provides: “Any controversy or claim arising out of or related to this contract,
or breach thereof, shall be settled by binding arbitration in accordance with
the construction industry arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association,
and judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction thereof.” 
(Hyman Decl., Exhibits B, H at p. 6.) 

 
            On or about June 2, 2023, Petitioner commenced an
arbitration proceeding to assert claims against Respondent that arise out of
the work he performed on her residence. 
(See Declaration of Benjamin W. Clements (“Clements Decl.”)
¶ 3.)  Respondent objected to the
arbitration on or about July 6, 2023. 
(Clements Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
            Respondent does not dispute the validity or applicability
of the Arbitration Agreement, but argues that arbitration is inappropriate
because of a risk of inconsistent rulings with subcontractors who performed
work that is implicated by Petitioner’s claims who are not bound by the
Arbitration Agreement. 
 
 Under CCP section 1281, subdivision (c),
courts are not required to order arbitration where a party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact.  (CCP § 1281, subd.
(c).)  For purposes of this section, a
pending court action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding
initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel
arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the
petition.  (Id.)
 
 
 
The
third-party litigation exception of CCP section 1281.2, subdivision (c) applies
when: (1) a party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party; (2) the third-party
action arises out of the same transaction or series of related transactions;
and (3) there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law
or fact.  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton
Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967-68.)  A trial court has no discretion to deny or
stay arbitration unless all three of section 1281.2, subdivision (c)'s
conditions are satisfied.  (Id. at
968.)
 
Respondent
provides names of various subcontractors who performed work on Petitioner’s
residence.  (See Declaration of
Carlo A. Coppola (“Coppola Decl.”) ¶ 4.) 
Respondent contends that these subcontractors are not parties to an
agreement to arbitrate.  (See Coppola
Decl. ¶ 5.)  Respondent fails,
however, to provide evidence of any currently pending proceedings with any of
these subcontractors that arise from Petitioner’s claims.  Accordingly, Respondent’s evidence is
insufficient to satisfy the requirements of CCP section 1281.2, subdivision
(c).  
 
The
Court finds that Petitioner has demonstrated the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, and Respondent has not articulated grounds to prevent enforcement of
the Arbitration Agreement.  The Court
therefore GRANTS the Petition.  The Court
STAYS the action pending the conclusion
of the arbitration proceedings.  The
Court schedules a status conference on June 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in this
department.  The parties are to submit a
joint status report by June 5, 2024.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
         Dated this 15th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 