  Case Number:  20STCV36429    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
Petition To Approve Minor’s
Compromise
Hearing Date: 4/8/24
Claimant Name: David Maldonado, 14.
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV36429 DAVID
MALDONADO, et al. vs LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
Ruling: Deny
 
 
TENTATIVE
 
The Court excuses the personal
appearance of Claimant and the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by
telephone or video conference call.
 
The Court has
reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of David
Maldonado, 14. The application is denied for the following
reasons:
 
·       
Item 10c of the petition must be completed.
·       
The medical expenses under Item 12a of the petition needs to match
up.
·       
Item 12b(5)(a)
of the petition needs to be
completed.
·       
Item 12b(5)(b)
of the petition needs to be completed.
 
The Court has considered the Declaration in
support of the fee request. In light of the retainer agreement providing for a
45% fee and the time that it has taken to achieve that settlement, during which
time plaintiff’s counsel has advanced funds and received no money from her client,
the Court will approve that fee, albeit with significant hesitation given that
the fee appears to be in excess of usual contingency agreements for cases that
do not require trial and because counsel’s failure to correctly fill out the
petition, as indicated above, is inconsistent with her high fee.
 
Claimant is hereby ordered to
correct the deficiencies noted above no less than 5 days prior to the new court
date set below. Failure to do so may result in sanctions and potentially
reconsideration by the Court of the high fee requested given the inconsistency of
that fee with the failure to complete a simple task, i.e., the correct completion
of a form pleading, so as not to waste the Court’s time and to ensure that counsel’s
client receive the negotiated settlement as soon as possible.
 
 
THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE MINOR
COMPROMISE ON APRIL _____, 2024, IN
DEPARTMENT 27 AT 8:30 AM. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 