 Case Number:  22STCV36773    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/8/2024 at 1:30
p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV36773 MARCELINO JOHN vs THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES
Motion:                    DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ADMITTED
Moving Party:           Defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient

Ruling:                     MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ADMITTED IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On November 21, 2022, Plaintiff
Marcelino John filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority alleging that he was injured on a METRO
bus on November 25, 2021. On January 24, 2024, Defendant served Requests for
Admission, Set One, on Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s responses to Metro's Request for
Admissions were due on February 28, 2024. Plaintiff did not serve a response by
that date. As of the date of this Motion, March 8,2024, Defendant has not
received the discovery responses at issue. Defendant now seeks an order deeming
the truth of any matters specified in the Requests for Admissions, Set One, as
admitted. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿¿ 
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.¿¿ 
 
Analysis 
 
Plaintiff did not serve timely
discovery responses within the timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a).
Plaintiff did not file an opposition nor is there any indication that Plaintiff
served substantially compliant discovery responses prior to the hearing date.
Therefore, the current Motion is GRANTED. 
 
¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 