 Case Number:  22STCV07522    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling ¿¿ Hearing Date:  4/4/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 22STCV07522 ADA TRAN vs MVM GRADING AND DEMOLITION INC Motion: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT AND TO REOPEN DISCOVERY Moving Party: Plaintiff Responding Party: Defendant MVM Grading and Demolition Inc. Notice:   Sufficient ¿¿¿ Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT AND TO REOPEN DISCOVERY IS DENIED.  Legal Standard When a party moves to amend a pleading, “courts generally should permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In ruling on this type of motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of prejudice the court is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope with a potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been revealed during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should look for delays in the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive increase in the costs of preparation and other similar circumstances that create prejudice to another party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.)¿ Where there is evidence of “legal gamesmanship,” a request to amend a pleading may be denied. (Green v. Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 693-694.)¿ Factual Background and Analysis On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present accident lawsuit. The trial date was initially set for August 30, 2023, then continued to February 6, 2024, and subsequently to February 6, 2025, while the discovery cut-off date remained January 6, 2024. Plaintiff contends he recently discovered evidence suggesting Christopher Decampli is the alter ego of Defendant MVM Grading and Demolition Inc., and now moves the court to amend the complaint to add Christopher Decampli as a defendant and an alter ego to MVM, and to reopen discovery regarding Decampli’s status as an alter ego. Defendant opposes the motion, claiming prejudice and arguing that there is insufficient evidence to substantiate the claim that Decampli is an alter ego of MVM. In the motion, Plaintiff states that she discovered facts supporting the allegation that Decampli was an alter ego of Defendant MVM during MVM’s deposition in June 2023. However, Plaintiff did not specify what these facts are. Plaintiff did not seek to amend the complaint or conduct discovery on this issue before the discovery deadline in January 2024, but instead filed the current motion after discovery had been closed for two months, seeking to reopen discovery. Although the prejudice envisioned by the court extends beyond merely addressing a new legal theory unveiled during discovery, the need to divert from trial preparation to address this late development does result in delayed trial preparation, shift in legal strategies, and increased litigation cost, all of which are prejudicial to plaintiff. Plaintiff, in her reply, explained the reason to add Decampli as a defendant is to access higher insurance coverage than the existing $15k/$30k policy limits. This revelation came to light during MVM’s deposition, where it was learned MVM might be insured through Preferred Contractors Insurance Company. After Preferred denied coverage for MVM Grading, Plaintiff began to consider the possibility of Decampli having individual coverage through Preferred or possessing other assets for recovery. Plaintiff reasoned that  “Decampli coverage would not be applicable unless he has personal liability, which in this case would be alter ego liability.” (Reply at p.4.) The rationale behind amending the complaint does not stem from newfound evidence of financial co-mingling, misuse of corporate assets, or a failure to adhere to corporate formalities. In fact, during Decampli’s deposition, he stated that there is no co- mingling of funds or personal use of corporate assets. The sole aim to involve Decampli revolves around the hope that Preferred would extend coverage on the basis of alter ego, thereby potentially increasing the total recovery. Consequently, the request to amend does not stem from the discovery of new facts substantiating alter ego liability. In instances where there's evidence of "legal gamesmanship," a request to amend a pleading may be denied. (Green v. Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 693-694.) Based on these considerations, Plaintiff's motion for leave to amend and to reopen discovery is  denied. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  