 Case Number:  21STCV43511    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                4/8/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          21STCV43511 LEONARDA GUADALUPE DUENEZ AGUILAR
vs CITY OF SIGNAL HILL
Motion:                              MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Defendant City of Signal Hill
Notice:                                Sufficient
¿ 
Ruling:                               MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
 
On November 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
present slip and fall case. In February 2022, Thomas Bekele became the new
Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) for Defendant City of Signal Hill. On August 1,
2023, Plaintiff deposed Bekele as the PMK. In October 2023, Defendant allegedly
discovered numerous documents in the previous PMK’s desk, of which they were
previously unaware. On October 3, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for leave to
conduct a second PMK deposition. The motion was denied. On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff
moved the Court to impose monetary sanctions against Defendant's counsel, John
Barber, for filing the motion for leave to conduct a second PMK deposition,
arguing that the motion was frivolous and not made in good faith. Barber
opposes the motion arguing that Defendant did not locate the documents in the
previous PMK’s old desk until after the PMK deposition was taken and sought to
conduct a second PMK deposition to inquire about the newly found documents.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP
section 128.7(b) provides that by signing and filing a pleading, an attorney
“is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and
belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met: (1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law[;] (3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery[;] (4) [t]he denials of factual contentions are warranted on the
evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(b).) CCP section 128.7
authorizes the court to impose appropriate sanctions upon attorneys or parties
that have violated subsection (b). (Id., § 128.7(c).)
 
A
claim can be factually frivolous or legally frivolous. (See Peake v.
Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 440.) “A claim is factually frivolous
if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and it is legally frivolous if it is ‘not
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.’” (Id.) “In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party’s conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable.” (Id.) “A claim is objectively
unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.’” (Id.) Furthermore,
“the fact that a plaintiff fails to provide a sufficient showing prevail in a
motion is not, in itself, enough to warrant the imposition of sanctions.” (Peake,
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 448.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant's motion for
leave to take a subsequent deposition was not legally frivolous as the Court
may grant leave for a subsequent deposition upon showing good cause. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.610(b)). Section 2025.610 does not prohibit taking a subsequent
deposition of an individual who was previously deposed in their capacity as a
designee under section 2025.230 to testify on behalf of an organization. There
is a legal basis for Defendant to request the subsequent deposition. Whether or
not Defendant has presented enough evidence for a showing of good cause is a
separate matter.
Defendant's counsel,
John Barber, demonstrated through his email and declaration that he acted in
good faith. First, he instructed the City to conduct searches for documents
responsive to Plaintiff's discovery requests on multiple occasions. These
searches occurred during a period of transition for the City's person most
qualified (PMK). In December 2021, Deborah Mestaz, the former PMK, retired due
to failing health and subsequently passed away in November 2022. in February
2022, Thomas Bekele became the new PMK, but he was unaware of the full extent
of Mestaz’s files. Email between Barber and the Bekele showed that Barber was
only made aware of the documents at issue after Bekele discovered them in
Mestaz's old desk and file cabinets after the deposition. Evidence presented by
Barber showed that he was diligent in requesting the City to search for responsive
documents and he lacked prior knowledge of the documents at issue until their
discovery after the deposition.
The burden of proof
rests with Plaintiff, as the moving party, to demonstrate that Defendant's
counsel acted in bad faith. To meet this burden under the circumstances of the
present case, Plaintiff must show that Counsel Barber was aware of the
documents' existence and deliberately withheld them prior to the deposition.
However, Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence to substantiate
this claim. Furthermore, Barber produced email correspondences showing that it
is unlikely that he intentionally withheld documents. Thus, the present motion
is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may
take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the
Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may
prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave