 Case Number:  23SMCV01545    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Tamara Jeffries v.
Jane Anne Jeffries Johnson, Case No. 23SMCV01545
Hearing Date November
30, 2023 
Defendant Jane
Anne Jeffries Johnson’s Motion to Dismiss Partition Action 
 
In this partition
action defendants Johnson and Nordeck move to dismiss plaintiff Tamara
Jeffries’ complaint, arguing Jeffries’ predecessor-in-interest waived the right
to partition the property. On October 27, 2023 the court issued a tentative
ruling denying the motion on the grounds of improper service. The matter was
continued to November 30, 2023 to provide plaintiff Jeffries the opportunity to
file an opposition. 
 
Defendant Johnson
obtained the property via quitclaim deed from her mother, Dorothy Jane
Jeffries. Motion Exhibit A. On March 1, 1977 Johnson recorded a grant deed providing
herself, Nordeck, and her brother Robert Dan Jeffries each a 1/3 interest in
the property. Id. Exhibit B. The 1977 grant deed stipulated “[t]hat any
disposal or other transaction negotiated upon 2320 Greenfield Avenue must be
endorsed by Jane Anne Johnson, Robert Dan Jeffries and Dori Miller (defendant
Dori Jean Nordeck in this action.)” Parenthetical added. Plaintiff Tamara
Jeffries, Robert Dan Jeffries’ daughter, acquired his undivided one-third interest
in the property upon his death and now brings this partition action. Opposition
RJN Exhibit 4. 
 
A co-owner of
property has an absolute right to partition unless barred by a valid waiver. Orien
v. Lutz (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 957, 962. 
 
Exhibit B is not
authenticated, so cannot admitted or considered as evidence. Even if the court
were to consider the 1977 grant deed, the language does not mention the right
to partition, so cannot constitute an explicit waiver. The language is
ambiguous. The court must look to extrinsic evidence to determine its meaning –
i.e. whether a partition constitutes a “disposal or other transaction
negotiated upon 2320 Greenfield Avenue -- and whether it constitutes an
implicit waiver of the right to partition.” No such evidence is provided. 
 
Finally, although
the motion is styled “motion to dismiss,” it seeks a court determination that, based
on extrinsic evidence, there is no triable issue of fact as to the issue of
waiver, so judgment must be entered for defendants, which is essentially a motion
for summary judgment. This is not proper. DENIED. 