 Case Number:  23SMCV02981    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Crestwood Hills
Assoc. v. Broumand et al., Case No. 23SMCV02981
Hearing Date November
30, 2023 
Plaintiff
Crestwood Hills’s Motion to Compel Arbitration – Supplemental Briefing 
 
Plaintiff
Crestwood Hills Association alleges the Broumand defendants’ construction violates
architectural standards in the Crestwood Hills community. The Association moves
to compel arbitration. 
 
Crestwood’s
developer, Mutual Housing Association (MHA), recorded Crestwood’s CC&Rs in
1950. Blackman decl., exhibit 1. The CC&Rs refer to MHA as “the
Corporation,” and establish “the right of enforcement of said conditions and
each of them [is] vested in the Corporation and in the owner or owners of any
one or more of said lots as above defined.” Id. pg. 2. The 1950 CC&Rs
established an architectural committee with the power to approve or disapprove new
construction. Id. ¶6. The Committee’s powers were set to expire on January 1,
1976.  In 1975 a majority of community
members approved an amendment to the CC&Rs extending the Committee’s powers.
Id. exhibit 8 pg. 3. Regarding enforcement, the 1975 amendment states: “[T]he
following condition is imposed on lots 1 to 43, inclusive, in Tract #14122, as
an obligation or charge against the same for the benefit of each and every
other lot in said tract, and the owner or owners thereof, and with the right of
enforcement of said condition vested in the owner or owners of any one or more
of said lots.” Id. 
 
On October 12,
2023 the court heard argument and requested supplemental briefing regarding:


1.     
What
body, if any, has the ability to enforce determinations of the architectural
committee?
2.     
Who
has standing to enforce arbitration?
3.     
Is
the arbitration clause enforceable if it was initiated after defendants
purchased the property? 
 
Standing (Questions
1 and 2)
The Broumands argue
CC&Rs can only be enforced by property owners within the community or by the
community’s governing entity if the covenants clearly grant it that power. They
argue the Association lacks authority to enforce the CC&Rs or rules
promulgated under the CC&Rs, including the arbitration clause. They argue
only a property owner has standing to bring this action. In support, the
Broumands point to the amended 1975 CC&Rs, under which the right to enforce
community restrictions is “vested in the owner or owners of any one or more of
said lots,” Blackman decl. Exhibit 8. The Broumands are correct that the 1975
amendment does not clearly grant the MHA – or its successor-in-interest, the
Association -- power to enforce the architectural committee’s decisions. 
 
The Association is
the successor-in-interest to the MHA. Blackman decl. exhibits 4-5. The powers
of the original architectural committee expired January 1, 1976. However, other
portions remained in effect, including the preamble to the 1950 CC&Rs,
which states “the right of enforcement of said conditions and each of them
vested in the Corporation and in the owner or owners of any one or more
of said lots as above defined.” Emphasis added. The Association is “the
Corporation’s” (i.e. MHA’s) successor, so has enforcement powers under the 1950
CC&Rs.
 
Though the 1975
amendment gives enforcement power to the MHA, it does not abrogate the entirety
of the 1950 CC&Rs. The 1975 amendment only replaces paragraph 6; the remainder
remain unchanged. The 1975 amendment must be read in the context of the other
terms of the 1950 CC&Rs, including the portion granting broad enforcement
powers to the MHA. As MHA’s successor, the Association holds those enforcement
powers. The narrower language of the 1975 amendment – granting enforcement
powers to “the owner or owners of any one or more of said lots”  -- does not replace the broader enforcement
language in the unexpired 1950 CC&Rs.
 
This conclusion is
bolstered by the Association’s conduct since 1975, including filing actions to
enforce architectural rules. Blackman decl., exhibit 6. There is no evidence
any homeowner objected to these enforcement actions.
 
The Broumands’ citation
to Hon. Mark Young’s ruling in Crestwood Hills v. BW Partners II, LLC is
unavailing. Broumand supp. Brief, pg. 2. Judge Young’s minute order denied the
Association’s motion for a preliminary injunction halting construction, in part
on the grounds it had not proven standing under the CC&Rs and their 1975
amendment. Judge Young did not determine whether the Association had standing
before the matter settled. As Judge Young did not conclude the Association
lacked standing, there is no basis for this court to reject the claim of
standing based on that case. 
 
The Association,
as the successor-in-interest to the MHA, has power to enforce the CC&Rs and
any valid rules issued by the architectural committee.  
 
Enforceability of
the Arbitration Clause (Question 3) 
As a matter of
law, a person who purchases property in a common interest development “should
be aware that new rules and regulations may be adopted by the homeowner’s
association either through the board’s rulemaking power or through the
association’s amendment powers[.]” Villa De Las Palmas Homeowners Ass’n. v.
Terifai (2004) 33 Cal.4th 7382-84. A homeowner is bound by rules and
regulations coming into effect after they purchased property within a
restricted community. 
 
Under the
reasoning of Villa De Las Palmas, by buying property in Crestwood the
Broumands consented to abide by the community CC&Rs and any subsequent
rules or amendments, provided they were properly adopted. The arbitration
clause appears in section 16.5 of the architectural guidelines and standards issued
by the Architectural Committee in 2022. Neither the 1950 CC&Rs nor the 1975
amendment grants the Association or the Committee the right to make
substantive, binding alterations to the CC&Rs absent a vote by a majority
of community members. The 1975 amendment re-establishing the Architectural Committee
states its determinations can only be enforced via “a suit to enjoin the
erection of such building[.]” Blackman, Exhibit 8. 
 
The amendment
requires enforcement by litigation, not arbitration. While the 1975 amendment
permits the Committee to unilaterally issue guidelines regarding architectural
standards, it does not allow the committee to issue rules regarding dispute
resolution. No document presented to the court grants the Committee or the
Association the right to alter the “suit to enjoin” requirement without
amending the CC&Rs. 
 
Although Cal. Civ.
Code §4355(a)(5) allows the board of a common interest community to adopt
dispute resolution rules without a vote of community members, that statute is
part of the Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act. The parties agree Davis-Stirling
does not apply to the Crestwood community. See initial motion to compel
arbitration, pg. 13 fn. 1. Therefore, the Association cannot rely on §4355 as
the basis for their claimed rulemaking authority.
 
The arbitration
clause was not properly adopted via amendment to the CC&Rs, and the Committee
lacked the authority to adopt it unilaterally. The arbitration clause is
unenforceable, not because it was adopted after the Broumands bought their
property but because it was not properly adopted. DENIED. 