 Case Number:  23SMCV00118    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Davis v. Optimum
Brain Neurofeedback Center et al., Case No. 23SMCV00118
Hearing Date
November 30, 2023
Defendant Kaiser’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents (UNOPPOSED) 
 
Defendant Kaiser
served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories and Requests for
Production of Documents on April 7, 2023. Plaintiff provided untimely responses
June 2. Kaiser alleges the responses were deficient, with improper objections
and insufficient production. On July 14, at the IDC, the court instructed the
parties to resolve the disputes. Kaiser alleges on August 21, Davis’s counsel
promised to amend by September 21, 2023. Kaiser alleges Davis did not amend the
responses and moves to compel further. 
 
Form
Interrogatories 
Form interrogatory
No. 2.6 requests identifying information of Davis’s employers for the past five
years. Davis failed to produce the numbers or addresses. Responses states she
was self-employed in various capacities throughout the five-year period. As
such, her “employer’s” phone number and address would have been her own. Therefore,
her responses to interrogatory no. 2.6 were adequate. DENIED as to form
interrogatory no. 2.6.
 
Form
interrogatories nos. 6.4 and 6.5 request information related to medication and treatment
by health care providers, including the cost. See Separate Statement
pgs. 2-3. Davis responded in part but did not state the cost of the medication
or procedures. Id. These figures are relevant. GRANTED. Davis is to
supplement responses to interrogatories nos. 6.4 and 6.5, stating the cost of
all treatment and medication identified. 
 
Special
Interrogatories
Kaiser moves to
compel further responses to thirty-four special interrogatories which ask Davis
to identify the facts or documents supporting allegations in the complaint.
Davis did not answer, objecting each one sought information “equally or more
available to the propounding party,” attorney work product, burdensome or
harassing and calls for a legal conclusion.
 
These are
allegations made by plaintiff. Plaintiff must state the factual basis for those
allegations. This is not work product. GRANTED. Davis to respond without
objection. To the extent documents are alleged to be protected as attorney work
product, she must provide a privilege log.
 
Request for
Production of Documents 
Davis’s responses
state she does not possess any non-privileged responsive documents, but she
does not state whether she was in possession of documents at one time or
whether she never had them. This response violates Cal. Code of Civ. Proc.
§2031.230. GRANTED. Davis is to supplement responses.
 
Sanctions 
Kaiser alleges
Davis’s counsel agreed to supplement the discovery response but failed to do
so. Absent opposition, there is no basis for the court to doubt this
allegation. Sanctions are warranted for Davis’s failure to act in good faith
during discovery. Kaiser requests $2,250.00 in sanctions, five hours of
attorney work billed at $450/hr. This amount is reasonable. GRANTED and payable
as against plaintiff and counsel, within 30 days.  
 
All additional
responses to be served within 20 days, verified and without objection. 