 Case Number:  21SMCV01935    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Marvisi v.
TheRealReal, Inc. et al., Case No. 21SMCV01935
Hearing Date
November 30, 2023 
Defendant United
Parcel Service, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff Marvisi alleges
defendants The RealReal and United Parcel Service lost watches he intended to
consign. Defendant UPS moves to compel arbitration pursuant to its agreement
with The RealReal.
 
UPS’s service
terms and conditions state “claimant and UPS agree that . . . any controversy
or claim, whether at law or equity, arising out of or related to the provision
of services by UPS, regardless of the date of accrual of such dispute, shall be
resolved in its entirety by individual (not class-wide nor collective) binding
arbitration.” UPS, Exhibit A §54. The terms define “claimant” as “any person
asserting or against whom UPS asserts any claim in any forum for legal or
equitable relief . . . arising out of or related to the provision of services
by UPS.” Id. §2. 
 
Marvisi did not
contract with UPS; the contract was between UPS and The RealReal. UPS argues the
arbitration clause is enforceable against Marvisi because his claims are
intertwined with the UPS/RealReal contract, and Marvisi is a third-party
beneficiary. Nonsignatory claims that rely upon, reference or are intertwined
with claims under a contract with an arbitration clause are arbitrable. Rowe
v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1287. 

Marvisi’s claims against UPS stem from obligations created by the contract
between UPS and The RealReal. The FAC alleges “RealReal contracted with UPS to
effectuate the delivery of the Watches to Mr. Marvisi.” FAC pg. 3. 
 
Marvisi argues it
would be unconscionable to compel arbitration, since he was unaware of the
arbitration agreement between TheRealReal and UPS and did not waive his right to
litigate. He argues federal cases cited are inapplicable. This court is not
bound by federal precedent, but plaintiff does not address state court cases
cited, nor does he present authority that enforcement of an arbitration clause
against a third party can be deemed unconscionable. Generally, unconscionable
contracts contain one-sided terms favoring the party with greater bargaining power
or are formed under conditions of surprise or coercion. Those elements are not present.

 
Under Exline,
supra, when a claim relies on or references a contract containing an
arbitration clause, the arbitration clause is enforceable against a third-party
plaintiff. Marvisi’s claims against UPS are dependent on the agreement between
UPS and The RealReal. Without that agreement, UPS would not have had the
watches, and there would be no basis for Marvisi to sue UPS. Marvisi’s claims
are intertwined with the UPS/RealReal contract, and its arbitration clause is
valid and enforceable against him. 
 
Under Cal. Code of
Civ. Proc. §1281.2(c), a court may deny a motion to compel arbitration when
“[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction or series of transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” 
 
Marvisi next argues
the motion should be denied under §1281.2(c), because he and The RealReal are
engaged in JAMS arbitration, creating the possibility of conflicting rulings if
the claim against UPS proceeds to AAA arbitration. 
 
The claims against
UPS and The RealReal share overlapping issues of law and fact -- whether The
RealReal or UPS was responsible for loss of the watches. The dispute between
UPS and Marvisi is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, not the California
Code of Civil Procedure. As UPS is an interstate carrier and a Georgia
corporation, while plaintiff is a California resident, so the FAA applies. 9
U.S.C. §2. The FAA includes no third-party litigation exception allowing a
court to deny arbitration to prevent inconsistent rulings of law or fact. See,
Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1116.
The court lacks discretion to deny arbitration under §1281.2(c). 
 
Marvisi seeks to
consolidate the claims against UPS with the JAMS arbitration. Doing so would
contradict the terms of the UPS agreement, which is enforceable. Marvisi
presents no authority to allow this court to alter the agreement’s terms and
compel arbitration before JAMS, rather than AAA. GRANTED. The claims against
UPS are stayed. 